 Mr Speaker,  in exercising my right to speak in this House for the first time may I acknowledge my great sense of privilege at being permitted to do so at all. Although in the office of Solicitor-General I had the great honour to represent our people in many places both here and overseas, to sit in this House as the elected representative of the Division of Wentworth is to me the greatest honour of all. I wish to express my gratitude to those who elected me, and to affirm my determination to serve all within my electorate whatever their political persuasion. I would like to add that I, like the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  came from close to the shearing shed. My father was a wool classer and later a shearing contractor. I have great sympathy for those who work in the shearing shed. May I also express my congratulations to the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Childs)  for the fine maiden speeches that they have just made. They have set me a great example. 
As honourable members will know, Wentworth stretches along the southern shore of Sydney Harbour from the city to South Head. It is a very attractive area. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  found his wife there. Its population represents a wide cross-section of interests. Its people are intensely Australian, intensely individualist and, I might add, strongly Liberal. That has always been so and I trust that it will remain so, whatever redistribution - if any - the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is permitted to inflict upon the electorate. It has in the past been represented by men of great calibre. From December 1956 until April last its member was the Honourable Leslie Bury. May I place on record, in this House the deep appreciation of the people of my electorate for the services that he performed on their behalf Not only did he perform them with great skill, humanity and humility of mind but he proved to be worthy of higher office on their behalf. In all he held 6 portfolios from 1961 to 1971 - Minister for Air, Minister Assisting the Treasurer, Minister for Housing, Minister for Labour and National Service, Treasurer and Minister for Foreign Affairs. He was never lacking in courage and was prepared to speak out when he thought occasion demanded. He has set me a high standard. I cannot hope to emulate it, only to endeavour, to fulfil as best I can the trust that has been placed in me both by my electorate and by my Leader. 
It is but a week since I first sat in this House. If it were not for my duties on the Opposition front bench I would have been more modest and certainly more wise not to have spoken so soon. However, I shall en deavour to make a small contribution to this Address-in-Reply debate. 
The most significant document tabled in this Parliament in recent years is the interim report, of March 1974, of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. It has revealed a degree of poverty in this country that is nothing short of alarming. Of all income units chosen, 10.2 per cent live below a modest poverty line and can be described as very poor. Another 7.8 per cent live at a standard less than 20 per cent above the poverty line and can be described as rather poor. By way of example, a husband, wife and dependent children are treated as one income unit, as also is an aged mother, an unemployed son or a daughter attending university full time. 
Eighteen per cent of all income units in Australia have an annual income leaving them in abject poverty or near poverty. Whether this would mean that more or less than 18 per cent of our population, or over 2 million of our people, live in this way is not clear, but the interim report has left no doubt that cancerous poverty exists in our cities, our towns and our countryside to an extent that none of us can ignore and to an extent that none of us would have believed. The figures were arrived at in August 1973. Since then rampant inflation can only have worsened their plight and increased their numbers, for inflation is no friend of the weak. The value, in real terms, of pensions paid to the poor must have fallen considerably since then. 
The figure of 10.2 per cent so recorded exceeds substantially previous estimates made by Professor Henderson based on more limited studies in Melbourne. His survey in 1966 concluded that 7.7 per cent lived below the poverty line in Melbourne. In 1971 in a letter to the London Times' he stated that the proportion of poverty in Australia was 5 per cent. Of the 10.2 per cent in dire poverty as at August 1973 the Commission's report concludes: 
Immediate measures are required to help these people ... No one has denied that those below this line need help. They are the poorest of the poor. One of their major needs is more money. 
In the light of these recommendations one would expect that a government which for the time being was custodian of the great social welfare powers of this Commonwealth and which was formed by a Party which has claimed to be the traditional guardian of the poor would have committed itself immediately and irrevocably to a program to rescue them from their worsening plight. 
I have read the Address-in-Reply. Indeed, to be absolutely sure, I have read it several times. I regret to say that I can find not one trace of positive commitment to or implementation of a program to eradicate or alleviate poverty. On 10 May 1972 the Prime Minister, as Leader of the Opposition, said: 
A Labor Government will conduct as a matter  of  priority a thorough inquiry into the extent of poverty in Australia. 
He said nothing of implementing it, and one is now tempted to conclude that he intended not to. The social welfare program which the Government has unfolded is one that gives to the haves - albeit in part - at the expense of those who now have more. It is a program for the already affluent. 
Of course the Government has adorned the Governor-General's Speech with the old familiar phrases - 'protection for the weaker section of the community', welfare housing will be provided 'as soon as circumstances permit', the next Budget will make further increases in social security, and it will also provide for increased assistance for the handicapped and disabled. Then there is that really meaningless but vote catching phrase 'more equal opportunities for all Australians' - a sprat to catch an electoral mackerel. I do not want to be provocative, but to the poor this is double talk. It is what our young people would call 'the old double standard routine'. It is the usual jargon poor people expect from a politician and a party intent on giving an impression that he or it has at heart the interests of the underprivileged. From experience it gives them no comfort. What the poor want to know of the Government is: Will you put your money where your mouth is, where your heart is supposed to be? 
For too long the poor have been a political pawn in this country. For too long their plight and their salvation have been used to tear the eves of sympathetic voters. Could we blame the cynical poor for thinking that politicians would be upset if poverty disappeared? What fewer opportunities they would have to display their virtue. When Henry Lawson wrote in your electorate,  Mr Speaker,  'They lie the men who tell us for reasons of their own that want is here a stranger and that misery's unknown.' he was probably expressing the view of many of the politicians of his day. But is the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or his Government or his Party any more virtuous when, knowing the alarming extent of poverty in this country, and claiming to be the champions of the poor, they offer no commitment to remove it in the program they place before this Parliament? 
Perhaps the faces in the street have largely disappeared, though shortly to return. Poverty today is perhaps less obvious, a more insidious phenomenon, and the measures needed to remove it are more difficult to implement, more needful of expert knowledge and understanding and more demanding of courage and concern on the part of those committed to remove it. There are those who still think that the poor deserve their lot, that they are the lazy ones who lack the will to work. But the Henderson report gives the lie to this. The great majority of our poor are the aged, the fatherless, the motherless, the sick and the invalid. The poverty we are talking about is poverty which inhibits the growth of human personality, which prevents people from realising their potential in a free society, from finding their identity as human beings. For a Government to condone it or, with direct knowledge of its alarming extent, not to make an immediate commitment to steps calculated to eradicate it is unprincipled, inhumane, undemocratic, unprogressive and politically, economically and socially morally indefensible. 
I would remind honourable members that in 1937 President Roosevelt said: 
The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much - it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little.  1 have used the word 'commitment' often and intentionally so. Poverty will never be removed or even greatly alleviated by ad hoc annual proposals - only by a conscious, firm commitment to the task by all of us, Government, Parliament and people, but initially and most importantly by Government. It requires a persistent endeavour involving the conscious diversion of resources and adjustment of priorities. A program for the alleviation of poverty is expensive, at times experimental, demanding great wisdom and constant concern. It requires self-sacrifice on the part of both Government and people. It can bring a government under electoral criticism. A government which lacks real courage will avoid it. 
I have no doubt that our people, given strong leadership, are ready to attempt the task. My concern it whether the Government is - whether it is prepared to change its priorities, whether after all the greatest really has the courage to be the servant of all, the poor as well as the affluent, or whether it will persist in its declared program for those who already have much and whether in its pursuit of it the opportunities for an effective attack on poverty in this country will be lost for many years to come. It is no answer for the Government to say that the Henderson report is only an interim report. The message it bears is stark, the cry is urgent. The program the Government has presented is a program for this Parliament. That it would require a change of priorities on the part of the Government there can be no doubt. Unless the people are to be taxed to an inordinate extent the community just cannot afford the social welfare program, however attractive it may seem to some, which the Government urges upon us and at the same time adopt an effective program against poverty. We are at the cross roads. Who will come first - the poor or the affluent? Have we the courage now in this country to express in a material way the humanity which we have so often expressed through our lips? 
The issue of. poverty should, as far as practicable, be removed once and for all from the political arena. I would suggest that as part of a program the community's commitment to its eradication be symbolised by an independent statutory body whose function it is to keep the problem constantly under review and report. The Social Welfare Commission is not a satisfactory vehicle. Poverty is a special problem demanding special solutions. 
There is another broad aspect of the Government's social welfare program to which I would like to refer. Let me however make it quite clear that I am not talking about cities, housing, education, nor am I criticising the abolition of the means test or suggesting that there is no need for reform in the social welfare area. It is not so much the areas in which the Government's program seeks to give assistance - such as health, pensions, general welfare and amenities - about which I speak, but the extent to which it would embrace the life of every Australian. We on this side of the House believe that the ultimate worth is the individual, his dignity, his freedom, his self-respect. We make no apology for it. It is our credo and we shall pursue it with unabated vigour. So I ask sincerely: What does the average Australian who is not poor require in times of economic stability by way of social welfare of his Government? Some measure of assistance he may need and expect, but does he need to be propped up, except in adversity, at every moment of his life, as the Government's program is tending to do? If he is propped up in this way, at what price to his freedom, his privacy, his individuality, his concern for others? At what price will it be to future generations in terms of healthy concerned individuals? Let us not be deluded into thinking that humanism springs from the state. It is the product of a healthy individual's mind and spirit. 
I realise that these are basic and perennial questions, but I believe we have to answer them now in this Parliament because of the nature of the Government's social welfare program. Our national life has hardly begun. The form our democracy will take is barely visible. The opportunity we have to mould it is, I believe, unique. No other country in history has been so free to choose the path it will take. The task we face in this Parliament, if we are really concerned to build a democracy, is to find and tread that delicate line which will achieve complete social justice for all while affording the greatest individual freedom in personal, social and economic affairs consistent with a basic concern for others. 
Much of the Government's projected social welfare program offends not only because it affords our poor nothing like effective social justice but also because it threatens to turn us into a dependent people coddled and propped up by the state at every turn. Let us not be deluded into thinking that all the Government's welfare program is humanism at work. Tn many respects it is either altruism gone mad or the first great calculated step towards the brave new world of Aldous Huxley - a fate none of us should want for ourselves or future generations. 
I ask honourable gentlemen on the other side of this House to reconsider their social welfare program not only because in substance it ignores the poor for the affluent, but because it threatens to set us on a path which, if followed to its logical conclusion, will significantly dehumanise our people. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
The Opposition will support this Bill. Like the Government, the Opposition is most anxious to ensure that persons who seek to escape the process of justice by going abroad are returned to be dealt with in accordance with Australian law. I remind honourable members that the purpose of this Bill, as stated, is to permit the application of the Act more readily to countries which offer reciprocity of treatment to Australia under their domestic law. Extradition, of course, has been a matter of great importance between states. In contrast to deportation and expulsion it is a bi-lateral act. It depends on the existence of some agreement or some arrangement between states, or at least a request _ for the handing over of a person by one State and a response from the other state. So far as English law is concerned, the matter of extradition has been so fundamental that at a very early stage, in order to prevent people being subject to arbitrary arrest, it was required that there be some provision of a statute to authorise even the arrest of a foreigner who was sought by a foreign State. So arose the modern statute law which we have today. Of course this law is based on the principle of reciprocity. In the past under the Australian system there has been a need to find a treaty or at least some matter of arrangement between the 2 countries concerned. Of course treaty has been the usual method. However, in more recent times a number of countries have been unwilling to enter into treaty. The result has been that under our law it has not been possible to obtain the extradition of a person from those countries unless we could guarantee reciprocity. The present Bill is aimed at enabling this to be done. 
As I have said, the Opposition supports this measure because, in relation to countries like Brazil which take this attitude, it will enable our Government, through the processes of law, to obtain the return of people from other countries where they are hiding from Australian justice. The amendment to the Act which is clause 3 of the Bill ensures that there must be a law of a foreign State which would, with or without any limitations etc., permit the surrender to Australia of persons accused or convicted of extraditable crimes within the meaning of Part IV. That satisfies the basic requirement of our law that a person shall not be subject to arrest unless there is some provision of a law authorising that arrest. This clause ensures that the GovernorGeneral must be satisfied about that fact. Of course it does commit to the GovernorGeneral the right of satisfaction as to that matter. He has to be satisfied that the law is of that character. However, at the same time one finds that that is completely consistent with the provisions of section 10 of our Act which, in relation to a treaty, enables the Governor-General by regulation to provide that the State is one to which the Act applies, it having satisfied the. requirements of section 10 and other sections of the Act. 
The third thing to which I refer in the Bill is that the regulations may provide that the Act applies in relation to that foreign State. As I indicated earlier, that is the system which applies at present where a treaty has been entered into. So this Bill is completely consistent in that regard. Again, it provides that extradition may be carried out subject to limitations, conditions, exceptions or qualifications. This too is consistent with the present provisions relating to the application of the existing Act to countries with which Australia has a treaty. In other words, this Bill finds our support because in principle it satisfies the requirements of the existing law which finds its origin in the Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966. It was passed by the previous government. Being consistent with those principles we are very content to support this Bill. 
But as I said earlier, we are content to support it because, in addition, it will enable persons who are seeking to avoid justice of this country to be returned here but under proper process. Insofar as it extends, say, to a country like Brazil, the provisions of our law are not a problem because it means only that the requirements of Part Til of our Act will have to be satisfied. That is to say, a person who is a foreigner in our country, whom it is sought to extradite, will have all the protection which Part III of the Extradition (Foreign States) Act now gives. Of course to some extent that protection is in the hands of the Attorney-General. Certain discretions are conferred on the Executive but in essence the Bill does conform with the spirit and intendment of the existing Act. The Opposition is happy to support it. 
The Opposition will support this measure, subject to certain amendments which have been circulated and with which I will deal later in my speech. This Bill contains a large number of provisions which are needed to enable the printing of the consolidation of the Commonwealth statutes or what honourable members on the other side of the House refer to as the Australian statutes. There is one place in which one cannot as yet refer to the Commonwealth of Australia as Australia, and that is in the High Court of Australia. In the High Court reference is still made to the Commonwealth of Australia, but that is because the High Court follows the Constitution. Much of this Bill is taken up with amending the words 'Commonwealth of Australia' to 'Australia' and the words 'Territory of the Commonwealth of Australia' to Territory'. Of course, it is very good that Acts be shortened in this way. What is very good also, of course, is the fact that the Commonwealth statutes are being consolidated; that is something that needs to be done. This work is the more tedious part of law reform. One has great sympathy for the draftsmen of our Commonwealth. They work long hours and they have tedious work to perform. It is one of those unrewarding parts of the lawyer's life, although it is rewarding in another sense because they perform a creative work. I would like, at this first opportunity of doing so, to pay a tribute to the draftsmen of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel for the work that they do in maintaining a service to this Parliament. 
Although it is perhaps a little aside from the debate, I would like to advert to one matter which I think is important. One of the things I have noticed since I have become a member of this place is that in no member's room does one find copies of the statutes of this Parliament. 
They may be found in the rooms of some honourable members, but not in many of them. May I suggest that consideration be given to making available to honourable members, when the consolidation is completed, copies of the statutes of our Commonwealth. There is something a little odd in members of Parliament not having ready reference to the statutes of our Parliament. I would commend that idea to the House Committee or to the Attorney-General. 
I mentioned in the second reading debate that I would draw the attention of honourable members to certain amendments, and I do that now. Some of them are merely formal. They seek to amend the Statute Law Revision Bill 1974 by the inclusion of a new section 7A, which in turn would amend the Public Service Act 1922-1973. I do not move the amendments at this stage, but I intimate the substance of them. After amendments seeking to insert sections 34 (b) and 34 (c), they read: 
That a section 34 (d) be inserted to read: 
That a section 34 (d) be inserted to read: 'He has made and subscribed, as prescribed an oath or affirmation in accordance with Schedule 4.' That a section 50 (5c) be inserted to read: 'Every member of a Promotions Appeal Committee shall before proceeding to perform the duties or exercise the powers of a member of a Promotions Appeal Committee take an oath or make an affirmation in the form in Schedule 6'. That a section 55(1) (g) be inserted to read: 'Having made or subscribed an oath or affirmation in the form of Schedule 4, does or says anything in violation of that oath or affirmation; or' That a section 55 (7) be inserted: 'Every member of an Appeal Board shall, before proceeding to perform the duties or exercise the powers of a member of an Appeal Board, take an oath or make an affirmation in the form in Schedule 5.' 
That a section 82 (9) be inserted to read: 'A person shall not be engaged for employment in a temporary capacity under this Act unless he makes and subscribes an oath or affirmation in the form in Schedule 4'. That a section 82 (9A) be inserted to read: 'Where it is proposed to engage for employment under this section a person who is not a British subject, or a person who is a British subject but is also a national of another country, the Minister may, after a report from the Board and if it appears to him that the employment of that person would not be  prejudical  to the national security, the preservation of official secrecy of any other interest  of the Commonwealth, determine that the last preceding sub-section is not to apply in relation to the engagement of that person'. 
That a section 82(10) be inserted to read: 'A person who is employed in a temporary capacity at the date of the commencement of this sub-section, or who is transferred to such employment by virtue of any provision of this, Act, shall not be continued in that employment unless, when required by the Board so to do- 

 - Mr Speaker, it is not often that a new member of this House is told that he has been set up. When I speak in this place, I will not be set up. I will be set up by nobody. 
You may think that you are on my side, but you are not. You are on the other side and I will not be set up by anybody. 
What I said in the second reading debate, I meant. I found the remarks of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  offensive - I mean that - because I thought that, from his association with me, he would realise that I would not be set up by anybody. I do not need to say any more. I simply repeat what I said in the second reading debate. If I had had the opportunity to say more about the Government's attitude to the oath of allegiance, I would have. When the opportunity is presented, I will. 
I did not hear the interjection of the Minister for Housing and Construction. 
I realise that. I would regard the approach that you take to the Crown as obtuse too, but I know what you are aiming it at. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said when debating this Bill in its previous form on 7 November 1973: 
This Bill represents a fundamental departure from previous approaches to restrictive trade practices legislation in Australia. 
In that hurried debate, speakers on this side of the House pointed out the vagueness and uncertainties which surrounded this legislation and the need for it to be amended. The Government, however, would have been quite content and in its haste was pressuring the Opposition to pass the Bill in its then very unsatisfactory form. In December it came before the Senate but the debate on it did not proceed and the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  was urged to consult with interested parties. 
Events have shown that the Opposition's refusal to be hurried into the passing of this legislation was completely justified because in March this year the Attorney-General brought the Bill forward again in the Senate with over 100 amendments. These, though still inadequate, have served to give it greater clarity. In its important trade practice provisions the sections have been completely revised due to the Opposition initiative. This experience should serve to warn the Government that it should not seek to push complex legislation through this House in haste and without sufficient time for debate and representation by interested parties. 
The Bill is divided into 2 major sets of provisions - those relating to trade practices and those relating to consumer protection. The Opposition's attitude to the Bill may be stated by dealing separately with each of these categories. The Opposition will not oppose the trade practice provisions in principle. However, as I have indicated, the provisions of the Bill are still unsatisfactory in a number of important respects and we shall propose amendments aimed at giving the legislation greater clarity and making it more effective in the public interest. 
I will deal first with the trade practice provisions which in some respects overlap with those concerned with consumer protection. They are found in Parts I to IV and VI to XII of the Act. The Opposition has already made clear its view that there is a need for reform of the existing provisions. The Opposition when in government pioneered the existing trade practice law. It was designed to bring about the restriction of such practices when contrary to the public interest. There is no question therefore that the Opposition is fully committed to the principle of freedom of competition. It is basic to our philosophy that free competition should be preserved so as to ensure an adequate supply of goods and services to the public at the lowest practicable prices. Free competition is the servant of the people and it is in the public interest that it be protected. Corporations which are capable of exercising power to control the market in such a way as to impair that freedom are accountable to the public interest. Indeed, in our society, all should be committed to it and all should be so accountable. The Opposition believes that there is a need for legislation which will prevent union action from impairing competition and seriously damaging the public interest. However, it is unlikely that the Government, unable as it is to contain union action causing the spiralling of wages, would take these steps in the public interest. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in introducing this Bill asserted that the existing Act had proved to be one of the most ineffectual pieces of legislation ever passed by this Parliament. These intemperate remarks are completely unjustified. It is sufficient answer to refer to what was said by the Commissioner of Trade Practices in his 1973 report. He stated: 
The current legislation, which is clearly coming towards the end of its time, has nevertheless served a valuable role. Among other things, it provided an entry into 3 field substantially untouched for many years. It brought the problems to public and business attention, and it became a means of moving towards principle and demonstrating the need for further legislation. It was also an important vehicle for the development of constitutional law in this field and beyond it. 
The implementation of the existing law was impeded for a long time by constitutional challenge. Honourable members will recall the Tasmanian breweries case, the concrete pipes case and the Mikasa case, each of which was won by the Government of the day and each of which represented a vital step forward in establishing the constitutional validity of the legislation. During the course of those challenges it was not easy for the Commissioner of Trade Practices to enforce that legislation. It was also necessary to acquaint our businessmen with it, its scope and operation. In 1971 the Opposition when in Government outlawed resale price maintenance. The Opposition has already indicated its view that price fixing agreements should be outlawed. This attitude is strongly supported by the steps which the 
Commissioner of Trade Practices has taken under the existing Act. As he says at page 6 of his report for the year ended 30 June 1974, tabled in this House last week: 
From the beginning my office has spent much of its time going into one price agreement after another, and it has considerable experience of their operation, their effects and their basic similarity. Many industry groups have given up their price agreements following investigation and discussion with my office, and the tempo has increased as the constitutional position has improved and as experience of agreements and their operation has grown. It has been clear for some time that the climate has changed and that the attitudes of businessmen generally are different from what they used to be. It seems no longer to be believed that price agreements are essential. I think business accepts now that price agreements in general must go. , 
There can be no doubt therefore that the existing legislation far from being ineffectual has proved greatly effective in the vital area of horizontal and vertical price fixation. However there is a need to reform it. We are committed to reform. We shall therefore not oppose in principle the trade practices legislation before this House. The Government has, on several occasions and as recently as last night, stated its view that the trade practices law is an instrument against current inflation. With the proposition that in the long term such legislation is an aid to combat inflation, one could agree. However, in the current crisis its value at the most is minimal. 
A sober consideration of this law throws up a spectacle of long hearings, lengthy pre-trial investigations, uncertainty on the part of business as to its provisions, procedural delays, long complex judgments and heavy constitutional challenge. It is most unlikely that it will be fully effective for some time to come. 
But, quite apart from that, its value in the present crisis must be minimal because until the spiralling of prices and wages is stopped the legislation cannot hope to work effectively. Free competition is completely inhibited at this moment by its greatest enemy, rampant inflation, with rising prices chasing rising costs and wages. The solution to that problem is only partly economic. It depends in the main on strong Government leadership producing co-operation between all sections and replacing self-interest with a sense of community responsibility. This is a national crisis. Pious hopes expressed in the Treasurer's statements and elsewhere that all parties will restrain themselves are doomed to disappointment. The Prime Minister, if we are to survive without too much damage, must bend himself to the task and become a Kissinger in bringing the various interests together for the public good. If he does this but does not succeed, he should then consider proceeding to use the wide powers which this Parliament has over prices and wages and introduce a temporary wageprice freeze. But to suggest that this legislation will really help is a vain hope held out to make it appear that the Government is doing something about inflation. 
I now wish to address some remarks to the more important provisions of the Bill and to indicate the nature and purpose of the more important amendments which the Opposition proposes to move. First of all, I would like to draw attention to clause 45. It is appropriate to point out at the beginning that clause 45 has been completely redrawn since it was presented to this House in November last year and that, of course, is due to the fact that the Opposition insisted that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  think about this again and have consultations in relation to it. We know that this law has an American origin and we know that this section and other provisions are found in the Clayton Act, the Sherman Act and in the Robinson Patman Act of the United States of America. The hope of the Government, one understands, is that the same sort of principles will be applied in its interpretation here as have been applied in the United States. Of course, we have known a doctrine of restraint of trade in this country inherited from the common law and one of the problems with clause 45 and its interpretation will be whether the courts will apply to it the common law doctrine. In the view of the Opposition there is a great need to import into clause 45 a rule of reason which will indicate to the courts, to the business world and to the public the basis upon which this rule of reason is to apply. Accordingly the Opposition will suggest an amendment which will indicate that a contract arrangement or understanding is not in restraint of trade unless the restraint has, or is likely to have, a significant effect on competition. 
In the existing provision put forward by the Government, the Government has included what would be called a de minimis provision. That is to say, a contract would not be caught by the section if it has only such a slight effect on competition as to be insignificant. This in itself is not sufficient to give an indication to the community and to businessmen of the intent as to how this particular provision shall effect his business interests or when it is that the public interest is affected. The purpose of the trade practices law should be to ensure that there shall not be a significant effect on competition. In the United States of America this rule has been applied. It has been expressed in different ways. However, it seems to the Opposition that this is the most appropriate way to express it for the purposes of our law and so we will suggest an amendment to clause 45. It will be a very important amendment aimed at bringing certainty and clarity to these provisions. We will also suggest amendments to clause 45 which will make it clear that price fixing is, per se, unenforceable unless the de minimis provisions apply or, in other words, unless the effect on competition is so slight as to be insignificant. We will also put before this House an amendment regarding the severance of obligations so that if a particular agreement happens to be in restraint of trade it shall not otherwise be unenforceable by virtue of this provision. There is no reason why a trade practices law should strike down the other terms of an agreement. It may be that a court looking at it may come to the view that it ought to be unenforceable because the trade practices restriction is taken out of it. But that is not a reason for its being left uncertain as to the effect which this Act itself would have on such provisions. 
Clause 46 deals with monopolies. When it was before the House on the last occasion the Opposition emphasised the fact that it had proposed that a monopolies commission be established. The Opposition still believes that it would be in the best interests of the public if there were a monopolies commission. The Government does not appear to agree with this. However, if this particular provision is to proceed the Opposition feels that it should be amended in such a way as to provide a definition of 'competition' and we will be proposing such a definition, again in order to bring greater certainty into the law regarding the definition of 'monopoly'. We suggest that the following be included in the Bill: 
For the purpose of this section, a corporation in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services includes a corporation which by reason of its share of the market, or of its share of the market combined with availability of technical knowledge, raw materials or capital, has the power to determine prices or control production or distribution for a substantial part of the goods or services in that market. 
So this would be a definition which would indicate to the public and to businessmen when they were in a position of monopoly under clause 46. Another proposal that we shall put forward in relation to clause 46 - a very important one - is that the authorisation and clearances provisions should apply to it. In the House today a question was asked in relation to the motor car industry. It was quite clear as far as the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on that industry is concerned there can be monopolies which some people can regard as beneficial in the public interest. Therefore, it is desirable that under clause 46 those who are in a monopoly position or who think they might be, should be able to take their case to the Commission to have it either authorised or cleared in the same way as may be done under clause 45. We shall put that forward again as a substantial amendment in order to make a substantial improvement to those provisions in the public interest. Clause 47 deals with exclusive dealing. Clause 48 deals with resale price maintenance and is substantially the provision which the Opposition, when in government, introduced into the present Act which has worked effectively and has been, after the Mikasa case, the subject of some court cases. 
I want to draw attention to clause 49 which is a provision which comes from the RobertsonPatman Act. To some degree it is an unsatisfactory provision because it is broad in its terms and its operation could be given meaning only after considerable thought and concern on the part of the court. It will require a great deal of interpretation and it may be some time before business knows what this clause really means. Again, the Opposition feels that this provision ought to be the subject of clearance and authorisation. Furthermore, we think it should be phased in to allow business to become familiar with it. There are many patterns of business in Australia today that would be covered by this provision and business should be able to adjust itself to this Bill over a period. We shall suggest that this clause, like clause 45 and clause 47 should be brought in after a period of 4 months from the time of the Bill's proclamation as an Act. Clause 50 is very wide. It deals with mergers. It states: 
A corporation shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any . . . assets of a body corporate where the acquisition is  likely  to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services. 
Quite clearly that could apply to a case in which a businessman wishes to acquire 2 very large machines in order to double the size of his output, which might well have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services. I am sure that the Government does not intend that that sort of situation ought to be covered by this provision. It is designed to stop the accumulationot assets of businesses so that share merger provisions cannot be avoided. The Opposition will seek some clarification on this question. 
The Opposition will propose other amendments to the Bill. In this second reading speech I do not propose to deal with them all. We suggest that clause 29 should be amended by deleting sub-clauses (1) and (2). The Opposition does not see any reason why the Attorney-General should be able to give directions to the Commission in relation to its functions. The Opposition takes the view that this should be left quite outside the political arena and the Commission should be left to perform its functions in accordance with the way they are set out in the Bill. 
I turn now to clause 76 which, of course, is the offence provision. That clause contains a number of statements about actions which will amount to a contravention of the proposed Act. There are 2 respects in which the Opposition will propose important amendments. Firstly, we will suggest that clause 76 (f) should be deleted. Clause 45 previously contained in it a provision in relation to conspiracy. Clause 76 (f) refers to a person who 'conspires with others to contravene such a provision'. Conspiracy having been left out of clause 45 as it now is, the Opposition sees no reason why it should be brought in through the back door, as it were, through clause 76 (f). There is no need for it. Apparently it provides for recovery of penalties in a civil action. There seems no need to complicate clause 76 in this important respect by importing the doctrine of conspiracy which are very complex themselves. 
Clause 76, having a quasi-criminal effect, might also be said to require proof beyond reasonable doubt. It may be that the Government would not dispute this. However, the Opposition feels that this should be expressly stated in clause 76 so that those who are charged with an offence under that section will have the benefit of that provision, namely, that if any offence is to be held against them they shall be shown to have committed it beyond reasonable doubt. 
Another important amendment to be proposed involves an insertion in clause 85 which is a similar provision to section 365 of the Companies Act. It provides that where the court thinks a person has acted honestly and reasonably and ought fairly to be excused, the court may exercise its discretion accordingly. We feel that it is appropriate that in a trade practices law such a provision should be included. We shall propose an amendment to clause 90 in order to adjust the provision more closely to the intent of the Bill. As the Opposition would see it, the intent of the Bill is to avoid restraints of trade when they would have a significant effect on competition. Therefore, we suggest that sub-clause (5) of clause 90 be amended to provide that an authorisation will be granted unless the Commission is satisfied that the particular contract is likely to result in a detriment to the public instead of having the English test which is there at present and which uses the words 'is likely to result in a specific and substantial benefit to the public'. The reason why the contract should not be of detriment is hard to understand because if the freedom to contract is to be retained subject to the public interest then if there is no detriment to the public surely the contract should remain on foot. That is the purpose of the Opposition's proposed amendment. 
We shall propose a clause 155A as a provision to enable discovery on the part of a person who is being proceeded against under this Bill. The right to discovery against the Crown is, of course, a matter of debate. The Opposition feels that a person who is charged with an offence or a person against whom proceedings are taken should be able to have produced to him any documents that might support his case. The proposed new clause 155A is designed to enable that to be done in such a way that it will protect the public at the point where the question of matters such as confidence, secrecy of government documents and the like can be protected by the court. So much for the provisions relating to trade practices. I have endeavoured in what T have said to indicate the approach of the Opposition in relation to those provisions that I have mentioned. I have stated that we will not oppose them in principle and I have indicated the nature of the proposed amendments. 
I want now to deal with the consumer protection provisions which are contained in Part V of the Bill. The Opposition is strongly in favour of provisions which will give adequate protection to the consumer. At the same time it is vital that those provisions which protect him should not leave him in a state of confusion. Throughout the Commonwealth there are already a large number of provisions in force in the States, under State legislation, which cover in broad terms the same areas as those covered by Part V of this Bill. Later in this speech I shall endeavour to assist honourable members by referring them to a number of State provisions which support this contention. The Government's proposal is to introduce yet another set of laws which by themselves might be unexceptionable but which if left, as is intended, to operate side by side with State law will leave the public - the consumers - in a state of complete confusion. The Opposition therefore while not taking any exception to the provisions themselves will move for the deletion of these provisions from the Bill. 
This does not mean that the Commonwealth has no part to play in consumer affairs. We on this side of the House think the Government has a vital role to play. For instance, there is much to support the view that the Commonwealth should have legislation to establish quality standards for consumer products. That is something. The Commonwealth should, through its control of the Territories and under other powers, be encouraging greater uniformity in consumer protection laws between the States and between the Territories and the States. At the same time it should provide funds to enable the States to establish consumer affairs bureaus to advise consumers of their rights and to provide them with legal aid in appropriate cases. We suggest that the Government agree to delete these provisions from the Bill and to hold consultations with the States with a view to the adoption of uniform laws throughout the Commonwealth to remove confusion. We are not aware of any consultations having taken place with the States by this Government in relation to this matter in order to achieve uniformity. We on this side of the House would co-operate in this endeavour so far as our co-operation was needed. We would not, of course, oppose these provisions applying to Commonwealth Territories. There are 3 reasons why, in the interests of the consumer, the suggested provisions in Part 5 of the Bill are unsatisfactory. First, they would produce confusion of the character I have mentioned. In his second reading speech the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  said: 
The existing law is still founded on the principle known as caveat emptor - meaning 'let the buyer beware'. 
I do not know whether the Minister himself prepared that speech. It is not an accurate statement. It is not true for there are a large number of provisions of State law which give great protection to the consumer in the areas which this Bill covers and which do not simply leave the consumer in the position of 'buyer beware'. Clause 53 of the Bill deals with fraudulent advertising and fraudulent representation. One has only to refer to some of the provisions of the States to see that they have legislation which covers this particular field. In New South Wales they have the Consumer Protection Act of 1969 which contains provisions on false trade descriptions, false representation, false and misleading advertising and the like. In Victoria the Consumer Protection Act, in Queensland the Consumer Affairs Act 1970-74, in South Australia the Misrepresentation Act 1971, in Western Australia the Trade Descriptions and False Advertising Act 1936 and in Tasmania the Goods Trade Descriptions Act 1971-72 contain provisions similar to those contained in this Bill. 
Pyramid selling is dealt with in clause 61 of the Bill. New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia, have passed legislation to cover pyramid selling. The matter of unsolicited goods is dealt with in clause 64 of the Bill. Appropriate provisions are in preparation in New South Wales in the Consumer Protection Act. There is the Unordered Goods and Services Act in Victoria, the Unordered Goods and Services Act in Queensland, a similar Act in South Australia, the Unsolicited Goods and Services Act in Western Australia and the Unordered Goods and Services Act in Tasmania. So there is already a broad area of consumer protection law in the States covering - if one were to make a close study of it - very much the same field as that which this Bill purports to cover. Quite apart from that there is the Sale of Goods Act. Division 2 of Part V purports to introduce warranties in relation to the sale of goods. These simply duplicate, although there are some differences, those provisions which are already in existence under State law. (Extension of time granted.) 
Some of the State provisions are even more comprehensive than those now proposed by the Government. There can be no result from such a situation other than confusion. Let us take an example of a consumer who is the victim of false advertising by a trader. If this Bill becomes law, the position would be this: If the trader was an individual the consumer must sue under State law because this particular Bill relates only to corporations. If the trader is a corporation the consumer will have a choice between suing under State tew and suing under Commonwealth law. However, if he sues under State law the trader will have a constitutional defence. The defence will be that the State law is inconsistent with the Federal law and so the consumer will be plunged into constitutional challenge. In other words, confusion will be added to confusion. It is true that in clause 74 of this Bill there is an attempt to save the State laws but that attempt may well be vain because under section 109 of the Constitution, if it operates it operates, and no law of this Parliament can exclude it. In other words, we are adding confusion to confusion - not only the confusion of having State laws which operate in this area but also the confusion into which a consumer will be plunged because he will be faced by a multiplicity of cases of constitutional challenge. Every State provision which could be said to come within the ambit of these provisions would be the subject of a challenge. It could be said that the Commonwealth law covers the field and that the State law is therefore inoperative. The Opposition believes that this sort of confusion into which the consumer could be plunged should not be permitted. It is for that reason also that we would support, and seek, the deletion of Fart V from the provisions of this Bill. 
But there is yet another problem which this legislation creates for the consumer. At the moment in the States of New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria there are either provisions for consumer claim tribunals or there are provisions in the course of preparation. For all I know, there may be provisions in the other States in the course of preparation. The development of consumer claim tribunals  is  a very significant development in the field of consumer affairs, because these tribunals enable a person who is officially appointed by the Government, no doubt with a legal background, to have brought before him claims by members of the public who claim to be affected by consumer protection provisions. Fortunately for the consumer, he can go there without the aid of lawyers. He can go there without the problem of legal costs. He can go there and have his claim dealt with in an administrative way by this particular officer. Imagine a person, a small consumer, who has a claim for $200. Obviously he will not be put in a position where he has to pay some thousands of dollars or even $500 for legal costs in order to fight his claim before a court. These consumer claim tribunals enable these types of disputes to be settled to the satisfaction of the public and in a way which does not involve expense to the individual or expense to the public. Under the Constitution this is just not possible at the Federal level. Such a question can be committed to a consumer claim tribunal in the States; yet in the Federal area it cannot be committed to such a body. It would have to be committed to a Federal court, and that court would have to consist of a person or persons appointed for life. The very idea of setting up consumer claim tribunals consisting of officers who are appointed for life only has to be stated to indicate how ridiculous it would be. 
So this Bill deprives consumers, because of the constitutional position in the Commonwealth, of the right to what is a very important and significant development in the law in relation to consumers, namely, consumer claim tribunals. Therefore we in the Opposition, although we are not against consumer protection provisions - I have asserted that and I assert it again - say that this Bill is not in the interests of consumers. Therefore we would encourage the Government to leave these provisions out. We will oppose them. As I said earlier, we would encourage the Government to discuss them with the States and try to work out uniform law throughout the Commonwealth in the field of consumer protection and introduce those provisions in the Territories. If the Government is not prepared to do that, it is the Opposition's view that the consumer is better off as he is at the moment under the law of the States. At least there is a movement in the States - apparently the Commonwealth does not participate in it at the moment although it used to - to achieve uniformity. If one goes through the States' laws one will find a great degree of uniformity due to the fact that there are constant consultations between the State Ministers involved. So we in the Opposition will not oppose the trade practice provisions but will seek their amendment in important ways, and we will seek the deletion of the consumer protection provisions. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3), after '47 (1)', insert 'and 49 (1)', and in sub-clause (4), after '47 (1)', insert 'and 49 (1)'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to bring into operation clauses 45, 47 and 49, four months after the date the Act is proclaimed into force. I have already explained the reasons why the Opposition seeks this amendment. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following new sub-clause: " (5) A person shall not be appointed as a member of the Commission unless he appears to the Governor-General to be qualified for appointment by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce or public administration.". 
The purpose of this amendment, as I have already indicated in my speech in the second reading debate, is to ensure that the members of the Commission have proper qualifications when they are appointed. This provision is included in the existing legislation and it seems to be something that was perhaps overlooked by the Government when drafting this legislation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 16  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 17. 
Where a member of the Commission other than the  Chairman  has or acquires any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any business carried on in Australia, or in any body corporate carrying on any such business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his duties as a member, the member shall, to the best of his knowledge, disclose that interest to the  Chairman. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (1) add: " Where a member discloses an interest in any such business or body corporate and the body corporate carrying on any such business is concerned in any application before the Commission the  Chairman  shall disclose to it the interest of the member.". 
The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that, where a member discloses an interest in a particular business of a body corporate or in the body corporate itself, that interest is in turn disclosed to the body corporate when it comes before the Commission. It seems to be a very reasonable suggestion that the interest be not kept just to the  chairman,  otherwise the consequences would be that the person affected by that interest would never know of it. He should be in a position where he can object. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clauses (1) and (2). 
The purpose of this amendment is to exclude the right of the Attorney-General to give directions. I have already indicated during the second reading debate that we on this side of the House consider that the Attorney-General should not have that right. The Commission has its functions to perform and it ought to perform those functions independently and outside the political arena. These provisions should be omitted from the Bill. If he has this power the Attorney-General can give directions on all sorts of matters. As we see it, there is no reason which could be suggested for giving the Attorney-General a right to interfere with the functions of the Commission. As the existing Act operates, the Commissioner of Trades Practices is a person with an independent mind and capacity and he has functioned very well. The Opposition suggests that there is no need for these provisions and that they should be omitted from the Bill. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following new sub-clause: 
Where a member of the Tribunal discloses an interest in any such business or body corporate and the body corporate is concerned in any application before the Tribunal the  President  shall disclose to it the member's interest. 
The purpose of this amendment is similar to the purpose of the proposed amendment to clause 17, namely, to ensure that a body corporate which is affected and comes before the tribunal is given notice of any interest of any member of the tribunal so that it can object to that member sitting. We suggest that this is a very reasonable amendment. 
I propose to move an amendment to clause 45. I pointed out to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  that the amendment circulated should include at the foot of clause 45 (2) the following words: 'but nothing in this sub-section prevents a corporation enforcing or purporting to enforce any provision in a contract which is not in restraint of trade or commerce.' The purposes of these amendments are as follows: As I indicated during the second reading debate the purpose of sub-clauses 1 and 2 is to ensure that the effect of the unenforceability of a contract will not be to make unenforceable the other provisions. This may indeed be clear as a matter of law already but it ought to be made clear specifically in the legislation. That is the purpose of the amendments to sub-clauses (1) and (2) as further amended by what I have already read into the Hansard. The amendment to sub-clause (3) is for the purpose of inserting, as I also indicated in my second reading speech, a rule of reason which is that a contract will not be in restraint of trade unless the restraint is, or is likely to have, a significant effect on competition. However, this provision leaves out of that sub-clause price fixing agreements which are covered by proposed new sub-clause (3)(b). Only the de minimus provision will apply to those. This is a very important amendment. Its purpose is to give clarity to  business and to the public and to indicate those circumstances in which a restraint of trade will offend the provisions of the measure. I move: 
Omit sub-clauses (1), (2) and (3), substitute the following sub-clauses: 
A contract in restraint of trade or commerce whether made before or after the commencement of this sub-section is unenforceable in so far as it confers rights or benefits or imposes duties or obligations on a corporation but nothing in this sub-section shall render unenforceable any provision in such a contract which is not in restraint of trade or commerce. 
A corporation shall not - 
make a contract or arrangement, or enter into an understanding, in restraint of trade or commerce; or 
give effect to a contract, arrangement or understanding that is in restraint of trade or commerce, whether the contract or arrangement was made or the understanding was entered into before or after the commencement of this sub-section; but nothing in this sub-section prevents a corporation enforcing or purporting to enforce any provision in a contract which is not in restraint of trade or commerce. 
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section a contract, arrangement or understanding isnot in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act unless the restraint has or is likely to have a significant effect on competition between the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding or on competition between those parties or any of them and other persons; and (3)(b) A contract, arrangement or understanding fixing or controlling or providing for the fixing or controlling of, the price for, or any discount, allowance or rebate in relation to, any goods or services supplied by the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding, or by any of them, in competition with each other, to persons not being parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding is in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act unless that restraint has such a slight effect on competition between the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding and on competition between those parties, or any of them and other persons as to be insignificant. 
I propose to move 2 amendments to clause 46. They are numbers 8 and 9 on the list of proposed amendments which has been circulated. The first is to add after the words 'shall not' in clause 46(1) the word 'wilfully' so that that portion would read: 'A corporation that is in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services shall not wilfully take advantage of the power . . . ' That is to say, there must be a conscious taking of advantage. That, of course, would be the only proper circumstance in which a corporation should be guilty of monopolisation. There would be circumstances where the corporation may have power but exercise it unwittingly. Therefore, the word 'wilfully', we suggest, should be inserted. The other amendment is the insertion of a sub-clause (2) (a) for the purpose of indicating a definition of a monopoly position. Again, as I indicated in my second reading speech, the purpose of this is to give clarity. The Government may of course think that there is a better way of doing it. It may suggest other words. Of course, we are prepared to listen to those words when and if they are suggested. At the same time, we suggest that this is the appropriate form of amendment in order to give greater certainty to the Bill. I move: 
In sub-clause (1), after "shall not", insert " wilfully ". 
After sub-clause (2), add the following new subclause: "(2A) For the purpose of this section, a corporation in a position substantially to control  a  market for goods or services includes a corporation which by reason of its share . of the market, or of its share of the market combined with availability of technical knowledge, raw materials or capital, has the power to determine prices or control production or distribution for a substantial part of the goods or services in that market. ". 
Amendment No. 10 in the list of amendments circulated proposes the addition to clause 47 of a sub-clause (6), which is in similar terms to clause 45 (6) of the Bill. This purpose is to ensure that there is a linearity between the 2 provisions. In other words, the provision would not apply where the only parties engaging in the exclusive dealing were two or more bodies corporate that were related to each other. In these circumstances we propose the amendment because there seems no reason for distinguishing between clause 45 on the one hand and clause 47 on the other. I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following new sub-clause: " (6) This section does not apply to a practice of exclusive dealing where the only parties engaging in it are two or more bodies corporate that are related to each other.". 
The proposed amendments numbers 11 and 12 on the list circulated apply to clause 49. The first amendment would substitute the word 'knowingly' for the words 'directly or indirectly'. The second amendment would substitute the words 'reasonably believed to be' after the word 'benefit' in clause 49 (2) (b). The purpose of the first amendment is again to indicate certainty to the corporation's position. It requires that to come within the provisions of the sub-clause the actions of the corporation must be done knowingly. That is, it must knowingly discriminate. It is appropriate, as the Opposition sees it, so to require in this legislation to give corporations protection in situations where actions are taken without any real knowledge on the part of the corporation. It is the purpose of the second amendment, to sub-clause (2) (b), to incorporate in the clause a test which is contained in United States law requiring that the benefit offered be one which is reasonably believed to be offered by a competitor of the supplier. 1 think the Government, on analysis, might find that both of these are appropriate amendments to make to this Bill. I move: 
In sub-clause (1) omit "directly or indirectly", substitute " knowingly ". 
In sub-clause (2) (b), after "benefit", insert " reasonably believed to be ". 
--I move: 
After sub-clause (1) insert the following new subclause: (1A) This section does not apply to an acquisition of assets in a corporation in the ordinary course of business.'. 
The purpose of this amendment isto clarify what perhaps is implicit in sub-clause (1) of clause 50, the merger provision. As I indicated in the second reading debate, it is possible under the provision, as it is at present drawn, for it to cover a position where a company merely acquires some additional assets which have the effect mentioned in sub-clause (1) of clause 50 and not to cover the usual case that must be intended to be covered, namely, where a company acquires the assets in toto of another company or perhaps the goodwill of the other company with the assets that go with the goodwill - in other words, acquires its business, and so puts itself in a position where the acquisition is likely to have the effects stated in sub-clause (1) of clause 50. The purpose of this amendment is to exclude those acquisitions from another company in the ordinary course of business - acquisition of machines and the like. Again, the Opposition suggests that this is quite a reasonable amendment. Business ought not to be put to the trouble of having to seek a clearance, for instance, or an authorisation in respect of every purchase of machinery that might, in the future, have the possible effect of substantially lessening competition. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (2) add the following paragraph: " (h) such other acts, things or provisions as may be prescribed by regulation.". 
My amendment, which has been circulated, will add to sub-clause (2) of clause 51a further paragraph. The purpose of sub-clause (2) of clause 51 is to indicate matters as to which regard shall not be had. The Act provides a number of matters to which regard shall not be had and it seems appropriate to the Opposition that there should be a provision for the 
Governor-General to exclude, by regulation, other matters which might not have been thought of at this stage and which, in the course of the practice of the legislation, might be found to be matters as to which regard should not be had. Again we suggest that this is another reasonable amendment. 
I move: 
Leave out clauses 52 to 75. 
The purpose of this amendment is to delete the whole of Part V relating to consumer protection. 1 know that the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  weeps at the thought that he will not, if this amendment is carried, have the capacity to become the Ralph Nader of Australia, as no doubt he would like to become. At the same time, in the second reading debate we indicated our objections to these proposals. They have nothing to do with our protecting big business. Our only concern is the consumer. Our real concern is to ensure that the members of the public will not be put in a state of confusion and also to ensure that they will be adequately protected by certain laws. It is all right to have a grandiose scheme which would enable one to place an umbrella over every consumer in Australia who deals with corporations. It looks very good. But when one comes to examine the proposal in the way I did in my second reading speech, the Opposition suggests that it leads to complete confusion and a situation in which the consumer should not be placed. It is an important matter, but the provisions do not cover the corner shopkeeper or the individual shopkeeper. If there are laws which are to relate to businesses then the consumer should have the same protection against all those conducting businesses. Of course, there are many individuals apart from corporations who carry on business in our country. This is another objection which the Opposition has to Part V of the Bill. 
 I move: 
Leave out Paragraph (f). 
Leave out 'is, if the Court so orders, liable to pay', insert 'is upon proof thereof beyond reasonable doubt liable, if the Court so orders, to pay'. 
I have moved 2 amendments to clause 76. One is to omit the act of conspiracy as one which could be the subject of action under clause 76. The other amendment is to require proof beyond reasonable doubt. In my second reading speech I indicated our reasons for wanting these amendments. 
I move: 
Leave out 'at any time', insert 'within 6 years'.  The purpose of this amendment is to require an action to be taken by the Attorney-General or the Commission within a period of 6 years instead of at any time, as is now proposed in sub-clause (2) of clause  77. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause. 
This is a consequential amendment on our amendment seeking to delete clauses 52 to 75. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 85 (1) Where in any proceedings against a person under this part it appears to the Court that he has or may have done an act in contravention of a provision of Part IV or of section 76 of this Act but that he acted honestly and reasonably and that having regard to all the circumstances of the case he ought fairly to be excused the Court may relieve him either wholly or partly from liability to any penalty or damages on such terms as the Court thinks fit. 
In this section "person" includes the corporation'. 
The purpose of this amendment would be to substitute provisions similar to provisions contained in the Companies Act which enable a court, in considering whether a person has been liable for an act done in contravention of, for instance, the Companies Act- in this case the Trade Practices Act - to determine whether he has acted honestly and reasonably. We suggest that the amendment is appropriate in the context of the trade practices legislation where people may be involved in an action honestly and reasonably and in circumstances where they ought to be excused. The courts should have a discretion in relation to it to exonerate them. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (4) insert the following new sub-clause: " (4a) Subject to this part, the Commission may. upon application by a corporation grant an authorisation to the corporation to engage in conduct that would or might be of a kind referred to in section 46(1) and while such authorisation remains in force, section 46 does not prevent the corporation from engaging in that conduct in accordance with the authorisation.". 
After sub-clause (5), insert the following new sub-clause: "(5a) Subject to this part, the Commission may, upon application by a corporation grant an authorisation to the corporation to engage in conduct that would or might be of a kind referred to in section 49(1) and while such authorisation remains in force, section 49 does not prevent the corporation from engaging in that conduct in accordance with the authorisation.". 
At the end of the clause add the following new sub-clause: "(8) An authorisation under this section may be sought at any time after the date fixed by proclamation under sub-section 2 (3).". 
The purpose of these amendments is to enable authorisations to be obtained in relation to matters under clause 46 dealing with monopolies and clause 49 dealing with price discrimination. I have already given the reasons why we seek these amendments. 
I move: 
In sub-clause 5, leave out "results or is likely to result in a specific and substantial benefit", insert "does not result or is not likely to result in a detriment.". 
The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that sub-clause 5 in clause 90, which deals with the question of when an authorisation should be granted, is brought into line with what we suggest is the appropriate approach to the question, namely, that an authorisation should be granted unless there is detriment to the public resulting from the particular conduct. We do not agree with the provision that an authorisation should not be granted unless it is likely to result in a significant and substantial benefit to the public. Our amendment would be consistent with the view that freedom of contract be preserved unless a particular contract is not in the public interest. We suggest that that is a very appropriate amendment to make in the circumstances. 
I move: 
In clause 92, leave out sub-clause (2), insert the following new sub-clauses: " (2) Where a corporation so gives notice to the Commission, the Commission shall within 30 days after receiving the notice (or within such longer period as the Corporation may agree) give notice in writing to the Corporation stating whether or not the Commission considers that the contract, arrangement or understanding is or would be in restraint of trade or commerce within the meaning of section 45. " (2a) Where a corporation has given a notice to the Commission under sub-section (1) and the Commission gives notice to the corporation in accordance with sub-section (2) stating that the Commission considers that the contract, arrangement or understanding, or the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, is not or would not be in restraint of trade or commerce within the meaning of section 45 the contract, arrangement or understanding shall be deemed not to be in restraint of trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act. ". 
After clause 92, insert the following new clause: 92a (1) A corporation that proposes to engage in conduct that might be of a kind referred to in sub-section 46 (1) may give notice as prescribed of the proposed conduct to the Commission. "(2) Where a corporation so gives notice to the Commission, the Commission may within 30 days give notice in writing to the corporation stating that the Commission considers that the proposed conduct is of a kind referred to in sub-section 46 (1). " (3) Where a corporation has given notice to the Commission under sub-section (1) the engaging by the corporation in the conduct referred to in the notice shall not be taken for the purposes of this Act to fall within sub-section 46 (1) if such conduct takes place more than 30 days after the date of that notice and the Commission has not given notice to the corporation under sub-section (2). " (4) An application under this section may be made at any time after the date fixed by proclamation under sub-section 2 (3). ". 
In clause 93. sub-clause 2, leave out "at any time", insert "within 30 days". 
In clause 93, sub-clause 4(b), after "the Commissioner has", insert "within 30 days". 
After clause 93, insert the following new clause: "93a (1) A corporation that proposes to engage in conduct of a kind which might fall within sub-section 49 (1) may give notice, as prescribed, of the proposed conduct to the Commission. " (2) Where a corporation so gives notice to the Commission the Commission may within 30 days give notice in writing to the corporation stating that the Commission considers that the engaging by the corporation in the proposed conduct would fall within sub-section 49 (1) . " (3) Where a corporation has given a notice to the Commission under sub-section (1) the engaging by the corporation in the conduct referred to in the notice shall not be taken for the purposes of this Act to fall within sub-section 49 (1) if such conduct takes place more than 30 days after the date of that notice and the Commission has not given notice to the corporation under sub-section (2). " (4) An application under this section may be made at any time after the date fixed by proclamation under sub-section 2(3).". 
The amendments provide for a period within which the Commission has to give notice. It seems appropriate that it be required to give notice within a particular period so that a businessman would know where he stands and would not have the threat of conduct being declared lawful or unlawful, or enforcible or unenforceible during a particular period. We have suggested 30 days. Another period might be suggested. Perhaps the period should be 60 days. We suggest that it is an appropriate amendment in the circumstance. The amendments also seek the addition of a clause 92a. The purpose of that is to enable a clearance to be obtained in relation to clause 46 (1). There is no such provision at the moment. Clause 46 relates to monopolisation, and, as we see it, there seems to be no reason why monopolisation should not be covered. The third and fourth amendments are similar in substance to the amendment relating to the addition of a period of time within which notice has to be given. The final amendment seeks to insert a new clause 93a, again to enable clearances to be obtained in respect of conduct which might offend clause 49 relating to price discrimination. I dealt with that in my speech at the second reading stage. We submit that all these amendments are appropriate amendments. 
 'I move: 
After clause 155, insert the following new clause: " 155a (1) In any proceedings under this Act instituted in the Court bv the Attorney-General or the Commission, or in any application to the Commission under Part VII for an authorisation or to the Tribunal under Part IX for a review of a determination of the Commission, the Attorney-General or the Commission shall at the request of a party to such proceedings or of the applicant disclose or furnish to him any documents or information in the power possession or control of the Attorney-General or the Commission which establishes or tends to establish the case of such party or applicant. " (2) If the Attorney-General or the Commission does not comply with a request under sub-section (1) the party or applicant making such request may apply to the Court to compel the Attorney-General or the Commission to do so and, subject to sub-section (3), the Court shall order accordingly. " (3) The Court may refuse to make an order in respect of the disclosure of any document or the furnishing of any information (or part of such document or information) which it considers will unduly prejudice any person whether or not a party to the proceedings or application or for any other reason that the Court considers appropriate in the circumstances. " (4) Before the Court makes a determination under this section it may require any person to produce the documents or furnish the information to it. " (5) Any order under this section may be expressed to be subject to such conditions as are specified in the order.'. 
The purpose of this amendment is quite simple. It is to require the Crown to make documents in its possession available to a person who is being sued. It seems a proper procedure. I submit that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  would readily agree that the defendant should know what is in the possession of the Crown. No doubt the Minister has often used that argument himself. The amendment purports to protect the Crown from any disclosure relating to confidence and the like. It gives a discretion to the court. We therefore suggest that this is a very appropriate amendment to make to the Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, the Opposition will oppose this Bill both here and in the Senate. It did so when the Bill came before the Senate earlier this year and it will do so again. The Opposition's rejection of the Bill is based on principle and on its determination to ensure, as far as it can, that Australia has the most effective and efficient judicial system our Constitution will permit. A great deal has been made of the fact that the proposal for a Superior Court originated with the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The fact is, however, that all lawyers in that Government who were first attracted to the idea rejected it once the proposal was examined and subjected to close scrutiny. 
It is no secret that the Chief Justice of Australia, who, as Attorney-General, propounded it, and  Mr Justice  Bowen, who introduced the first Bill into the House, have since expressed/their opposition to it. Successive Attorneys-General - Barwick, Snedden, Nigel Bowen, Hughes and Greenwood - have rejected it. It is to their credit that they did. May I add that the proposal is one with which I disagreed from the moment I first considered it as Solicitor-General. I have encouraged Atorneys-General to abandon it. I have no difficulty in identifying myself completely with my Party's decision to oppose it. 
Before explaining why in principle the Opposition takes this stand it may he helpful if I remind honourable members of the Bill's main provisions. It is to be a Superior Court of record, that is to say, the highest type of court. It will have power to fine and imprison and enforce its own orders. It will have power to fine for contempt. It will consist of a Chief Justice and other judges appointed from time to time. There will be 6 divisions with a Chief Judge for each division. The divisions are: Administration, Bankruptcy and Insolvency, Commercial, Family, General Division and Industrial Division. There will be an unspecified number of districts with a Chief Judge for each district. Since there is specifically established an Australian Capital Territory District and a Northern Territory District one assumes that there will at least be one district for each State, that is, in all at least 8 districts, each with a Chief Judge. On my count that makes 15 chiefs. One wonders how many indians there will be. Indeed, it is a grand concept. Let me remind honourable members that the judges of this court will be appointed for life because it will be a Federal court and under section 72 of the Constitution, as that provision has been interpreted by the High Court of Australia, they must be appointed for life. 
There will be an original and appellate jurisdiction. The original jurisdiction will come from sections 75 and 76 of the Constitution. A great deal of the court's work will come from matters arising under laws made by the Parliament. By way of example one can point to clause 20 of the Bill, which relates to matrimonial causes. There are special provisions to give this jurisdiction in time to the proposed court and to take it away from the State and Territory courts in which it has been vested since the Matrimonial Causes Act came into existence in the federal area in 1945 and certainly since the Federal Matrimonial Causes Act came into existence in 1959-60. The appellate jurisdiction will include appeals from judgments of the court itself when not sitting as a full court. It will include appeals from judgments of a supreme court of a Territory and appeals from State courts, other than supreme courts, where this is an exercise of federal jurisdiction. So it will be a court of wide jurisdiction. 
Clause 23 of the Bill is designed to give the court jurisdiction in associated matters. It is a dragnet provision aimed at attempting to overcome a problem which possibly cannot be overcome, namely, of giving the court jurisdiction in matters which are not matters of federal jurisdiction. But the provision is there, nevertheless. There are also provisions to transfer the existing jurisdiction from the existing courts - from the Australian Industrial Court, the Federal Bankruptcy Court, the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory and the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, and from the High Court insofar as that can be done. There are provisions for the transfer of jurisdiction from the State supreme courts - for instance the taxation jurisdiction which was vested in those courts last year. 
To some small extent the State courts will retain concurrent jurisdiction. There will be provisions for appeal from this court to the High Court, but only by leave. Constitutional cases which arise in this court can be transferred or removed to the High Court by the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth. There will be provisions for registries, registrars and people called marshalls who will exercise the task of enforcing the Federal writ in Australia, as happens in the United States. According to the Bill the practice and procedure will be handled by regulation until 30 June 1975 and thereafter an Act of Parliament is to provide for the practice and procedure. 
Practice and procedure are to be removed from the jurisdiction of the judges and left to us, the politicians, to determine. There will be provisions for juries and provisions for the enforcement of judgments. 
I have gone through those provisions quickly to remind honourable members of the scope of this Bill, of the size of the court and of the types of jurisdiction it will exercise. That summary of the Bill is sufficient to indicate not only the grand design to which this court is to be constructed but also that in size it must ultimately be the largest court in this country whose writ will run throughout the Commonwealth and its Territories. It is intended to exercise and would exercise tremendous power over our citizens. It would add a large court to the already complex judicial system that exists in this country. It will be expensive. It will eventually entail the support of a large number of judges and their staffs. It will entail the provision of courts, registries and jury facilities in every State capital and large centre of population. It will involve the employment of law enforcement officers and the construction of gaols for those convicted before it. It will be a court on a grand design that will have to have many institutions attached to it if it is to carry out its work and enforce its writs. 
The reasons put forward by the Government for pressing this measure, as appear from the second reading speech of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  are threefold. Firstly, the policy of the Australian Labor Party so provides. Secondly, the Government believes that the areas of major Federal law should be administered by a Federal court established under legislation enacted by this Parliament and should not be left to be administered in the State courts. Thirdly, it is proper that the Australian Government should be able to be sued and to sue in its own courts. Those reasons are political, theoretical and, in a sense, ideological. None of them appears to be concerned with the question of what sort of court system can best serve the people of this country. 
Yet this, I suggest, is the only proper question to ask. An effective and serving judicial system must satisfy a number of tests. Firstly, it should be independent. It should be accessible, financially and geograpically, to all the people all the time. It should be simple and not complex. It should be such that the ordinary citizen can understand it and how it works, where to find it and the types of judges sitting in it. It should enforce all the law of the land and, as far as possible, enable the citizen to have all his rights, whatever the source of the law, determined in the one trial court. 
In a federation such as ours, which is designed to express the unity of the Australian people it is vital that we have a court system for the enforcement of State and Federal laws which is as unified as circumstances permit and not one that is divisive. In a federation a judicial system can be a cohesive force. In almost every respect the Government's proposal to set up a superior court fails to meet the basic conditions that I have mentioned. Although independent in the traditional sense, the establishment of a large superior court would accentuate the division of this country into 2 court systems - one dependent upon the State governments and the other dependent upon the Federal Government - with the consequent division. In the initial stages the new court could not hope to be accessible to all our people - for instance, those in large provincial towns. It must be a long time before this court will be able to service people in country towns. At the moment, of course, there is being erected in Sydney a building that could house this court. But for the time being there is no provision for it in the large country towns of New South Wales and all the other States and it will be a long time before this court will become known to all and accessible to our people. It will be strange; it will be unfamiliar. 
Such a court would add complexity to our court system in many respects. In the first place, it would provide for 2 systems which, quite frankly, are explicable in terms only by an expert on constitutional law. As will be shown, technicalities will abound. There will be judges of different tenure from those who sit in other courts in the States. They will sit for life. The other judges may be appointed until they are 70 or 65 years of age. There will arise a diversity of decisions and concurrent jurisdiction between the State and Federal courts. Inconsistency in the administration of criminal law is sure to abound because the superior court is intended to become a court of criminal law, and one can be sure that there will be a divisiveness in the administration of that law between the Federal and State judges. That has been so in the United States. It will become so here. It is most undesirable. 
There will be different law enforcement officers. There will be marshals in the Federal area and sheriffs in the State area. We will have repeated here the same system as exists in the United States. The confusion that must abound as a result of it need only to be thought about to be agreed with. As I shall demonstrate, it will not enable people to have their rights determined in one court irrespective of the law, Federal or State, which is the source of those rights. It will be divisive. It will cause friction between the State and Federal judicial systems. It will cause friction not only between the 2 systems but also between the judicial officers of the 2 systems. It will deprive this country for many years, if not for centuries, of any real opportunity to have a unified system of courts. 
Furthermore, none of the reasons given by the Government for this measure is worth the price that we will have to pay. The first one was that it is Labor Party policy. That in itself, I may say, hardly commends it. It has long ceased to be a reason to commend anything. Secondly, it is said that areas of major Federal law should be administered by a Federal court. The State courts have been doing this since 1903 and there is no suggestion of any complaint by the Government that the State courts are not administering Federal jurisdiction properly. 
The third reason given is that the Australian Government should be able to sue and be sued in its own courts. Surely this is pedantic medieval ideology, an attempt to revive the notion that the king could be sued only in his own courts. In a democracy no government is above its people. Where its people can sue and be sued it is proper that it too sue and be sued. It has been so since Federation. Why does the Australian Government suddenly assert that it must rise above its people? The courts should administer the law of the land, all the law, State and Federal, against people and government. It is only by this means that the rule of law in our Federation can be fully realised in practice. 
Covering clause 5 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act which says that the law of the Commonwealth shall be binding on all State courts, is an expression of the idea that all the law shall be enforceable in the State courts. The idea is that all the law, State and Federal, shall be enforceable in the one court. I need not stop too long to explain the complexity of the judicial power in Australia - honourable members will be familiar with that - which surrounds the jurisdiction exercised by courts in this country. Briefly, there is Federal jurisdiction, which is created under chapter III of our Constitution. Federal jurisdiction is the authority to decide federal matters. There is State jurisdiction - the jurisdiction which is exercised by State courts. It is the authority to decide State matters. Territorial jurisdiction is that which flows from section 122 of our Constitution. It is the authority to decide territorial matters. Federal jurisdiction is notoriously complex. In the Constitution in chapter III there is provision for it to be exercised by 3 distinct bodies - by the High Court itself; by a Federal court created by this Parliament, and that is what the Government is seeking to do under this Bill; and by section 77 (iii) which provides the means to enable rights and duties under Commonwealth law to be enforced in State courts. 
This latter matter is one of considerable importance. This provision was inserted in the Commonwealth Constitution; it is not found in the American Constitution. I took the trouble to find out what was in the minds of our founding fathers when they put in that provision. It is evidenced by a telegram which Simon sent to  Sir Samuel  Griffiths on 1 April 1897. It was said of this proposal to vest Federal jurisdiction in State courts that the object was 'to avoid the needless creation of Federal courts in all the States and the consequent degradation of State courts and avoid the difficulties of litigation which exists in America'. They regarded the power to establish Federal courts, more by way of reserve if any State should close its courts or obstruct the determination of federal matters'. The use of State courts was therefore seen by the founding fathers as a means of maintaining a simple court system within  the Federation with the High Court as the supreme court of Australia. The founding fathers obviously saw the creation of Federal courts as unnecessary except in the last resort. The arguments which were used then are valid now. 
For instance, there is no suggestion that Federal law is not being properly administered under the present system. The general jurisdiction has been exercised by the State courts for 74 years and, as I said a moment ago, there are no complaints. The State courts have exercised taxation jurisdiction for many years and in the last year they exercised it almost exclusively. From my own experience, they appear to be exercising it well in favour of the Commissioner. They have also been exercising industrial property jurisdiction - another matter of Federal jurisdiction - and exercising it well for many years. I think it is appropriate to say that any specialised Federal jurisdiction that needs a special court could be vested in the Industrial Court that now exists. For instance, the jurisdiction under the Trade Practices Act could be vested in the Industrial Court. The resale price maintenance jurisdiction has been exercised by the Industrial Court. The Mikasa case came before it. Administrative review appeals jurisdiction could be exercised by the Industrial Court. There is absolutely no need to construct this large, grand court that the Bill proposes. There is no need for the institutional framework with all its expenses and grandeur. There is no need for a multiplicity of judges receiving salaries of the nature of those we have heard about here tonight. 
The' proposed court would degrade the Supreme Courts, stripping them of their existing jurisdiction. I ask honourable members to consider what will happen to the present State jurisdiction if the Government's intended legislation comes into force. At present the State courts exercise matrimonial causes jurisdiction. That will be taken away by this Bill. At present the State courts exercise jurisdiction in company matters. If the Government has its way and brings in a national companies Act the State courts will have removed from them the companies jurisdiction. If this Government has its way the consumer protection laws will not be enforced by the State courts. If this Government has its way in terms of accident insurance and jury cases, motor vehicle cases will no longer come before the State courts. I do not necessarily disagree with that, but I just want to show what will happen to the State courts if this Government's legislation is carried through. This is an extremely important matter. Industrial accident and workers' compensation jurisdiction will be removed; taxation jurisdiction will be removed; industrial property jurisdiction will be removed. I ask honourable members: What will be left of the great common law courts of the States of this country? They will be nothing but property courts with an inferior status. This needs to be borne in mind when honourable members consider the effect of this proposal. 
One other matter which is extremely important and which has created a tremendous problem in the United States of America is that if the Human Rights Bill finds it way into Federal law, and in the unlikely event of the High Court upholding it to be valid, this Superior Court would be able to direct its writs to the judgments of the State Supreme Courts, with consequent tension. The result would be that they would be in the position of inferior courts. There will be the creation of a parallel system of law enforcement officers - marshals who rush in with a federal badge as distinct from sheriffs who rush in with a State badge. There will be a duel criminal system with its consequent effects. That is enough to indicate that if this legislation passes into law the State courts system will be denuded of its jurisdiction. The State courts will become inferior in status. If that is what this Parliament wants to do I suggest that it should think again. It is an extremely good reason why this proposal should be rejected. 
I have not stoppped to mention the difficulties of litigation in this court. The problem of what is Federal jurisdiction in a Federal court is an immense one. It is not just academic. It can arise at any time. For instance, if one sued in relation to a simple contract debt one could not sue on that :n a Federal court but one could sue on a cheque because the rights under the cheque are ascribable to the Bills of Exchange Act under Federal law. If one sued on a trademark matter one could not add a count of passing off. What about third party claims based on State law? There are problems of when Federal jurisdiction arises. As a matter of constitutional law, Federal jurisdiction does not necessarily arise when the case starts; Federal jurisdiction may arise when the case is half way through. You may find a case starting in a State court and the result will be that half way through it has to find its way into Federal court. What an extraordinary situation this legislation will bring about. There are other problems. For instance, this Bill enables the Federal court to exercise original Territory jurisdiction. There is the very difficult constitutional problem as to whether Federal courts can exercise original Territory jurisdiction. There is a case way back in our history in which the Justices of the High Court disagreed on this question. They were three all. It is still outstanding. Recently when it was mentioned some of the judges of our own High Court took differing views. 
Another important question is what law will apply. If the court sits in Brisbane does the law of Queensland apply? If it sits in Adelaide does the law of South Australia apply? It is a question of a choice of law. There can be no applicable common law throughout Australia in relation to general jurisdiction if this Bill becomes law. I ask: Can the right of appeal to the High Court he taken away? I ask that question because the judges of this court are officers of the Commonwealth just as judges of the Federal Industrial Court are officers of the Commonwealth and they are subject to the original jurisdiction of the High Court under section 75 (5.) of the Constitution. I have mentioned those matters because they only indicate that there are constitutional problems with this court as well. 
We have in addition the American experience of problems of competition between the State and the Federal court systems in that country. I personally have had experience of the jealousy and resentment which exists between justices in those 2 systems. A good 'deal has been written about this. My personal experience would lead me to think that it is not a desirable thing to create in this country. One also has to ask what effect this would have on the development of the Territory Supreme Courts. The proposal under this Bill is to take away the Northern Territory Supreme Court and to put its jurisdiction within the Superior Court. Some day some of us may hope that the Northern Territory will become another State. I realise quite well that those on the other side of the House do not want the Northern Territory to become a State and therefore they have no trouble with this proposition. But if those of us who want the Northern Territory to become another State in our Commonwealth are concerned we will be concerned about the fact that the Territory Supreme Court is not being allowed to develop with its own judges. There is no need for there to be an appellate court within a Federal court in order to satisfy the problem of appeals from Territory courts. There is already in the Australian Capital Territory a Full Court and if the judges were appropriately appointed it could handle appeals from the Northern Territory and then there could be appeals by leave to the High Court, thus giving the ideal of having 2 appeals. &lt;This analysis should be sufficient to indicate why the Government's proposal as a matter of principle should be rejected. But our attitude, soundly based as it is, is not just one of opposition. There are positive steps we should be taking towards the establishment of a more efficient, more united judicial system in this country. That this is the ideal is irrefutable.  Sir Owen  Dixon in 1935 in criticising the constitutional concept of Federal jurisdiction said: 
Now in such a state of affairs, it would appear natural to endeavour to establish the Courts of justice as independent organs which were neither Commonwealth nor State. The basis of the system is the supremacy of the law. The Courts administering the law should' all derive an independent existence and authority from the Constitution. 
There are steps that we can take now. Except in special circumstances all superior Federal jurisdiction should be vested in State Supreme Courts. Special circumstances might exist in relation to trade practices and administrative review but in relation to taxation there are no special circumstances. Taxation law involves property, trust and partnership law, the sort of law that the State courts are used to enforcing. The State courts are used to industrial property matters. The State courts are used to enforcing company law. They have been doing so since the beginning. Any need for specialisation can be provided in a State court itself under an arrangement that certain judges will exercise particular jurisdictions. Constitutional questions should be dealt with in State courts unless they are of such significance that they should be removed into the High Court, and this can be done under provisions which ought to be inserted in the Judiciary Act by way of amendment. 
Secondly, we would suggest that an independent judicial administration should be established and funded by the Commonwealth. This idea has been on the drawing board for a long time. It was on the drawing board of the previous Government. It may for all I know be on the drawing board of this Government. The Federal and Territory judges should administer their own courts. It is time that they were able with their own budget to determine how their courts should be administered, to appoint their own officers and in that way run the courts in the full sense of the word. State judges exercising Federal jurisdiction should be invited to participate with the Federal judges in a permanent judicial conference funded with Federal money. Amongst other things that conference would consider questions on the reform of the law in areas over which judges exercise jurisdiction. It would consider and report to Parliament on the state of the judiciary including the exercise of Federal jurisdiction by State courts. It would hold seminars for judges and it would review rules of court, practice and procedure with a view to achieving uniformity and efficiency throughout Australia. We should avoid a proliferation of judges appointed for life. 
But this is not all we can do. In the Constitutional Convention we in this Parliament have an opportunity to work with the States to set up a system of courts in Australia which will enforce all law, State and Federal. It will require a creative effort on the part of all - parliaments, legal profession and judiciary. I do not suggest it would be a simple task, but it is practicable if approached with the interest of our people at heart. We are a modern country and our people deserve and need a judicial system free of complexity, accessible to all and able to enforce all the law of our land. The Opposition is convinced that if this Bill is adopted- 
This Bill amends the Evidence Act in a way which will enable the signatures to be judicially noticed of any person presiding at a joint sitting of the Parliament and which will facilitate the proof of proceedings which take place in a joint sitting. The Opposition does not oppose this measure and it is happy to facilitate its speedy passage. It will apply to any future joint sitting of the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My only reason for wanting to do so is to indicate the Opposition's attitude to the motion that has just been passed in case it goes by default. It had been suggested that section 49 of the Constitution might itself give protection in a joint sitting, but if one refers to section 49 of the Constitution one will find that it does not refer to a joint sitting and that it only picks up the powers, privileges and immunities of the House of Commons. Of course, the House of Commons does not have provision for a joint sitting. It has been suggested that it is extremely doubtful whether section 49 would provide sufficient protection to members engaged in a joint sitting with senators. It is for that reason that discussions took place with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  about the working out of some method of ensuring that the full powers and immunities of protection normally afforded to members of this House would be appropriate to them when sitting in a joint sitting. The motion was really based on section 50 of the Constitution, which provides that each House of Parliament may make rules and orders with respect to the order and conduct of its business and proceedings jointly with the other House. Basing it on what is thought to be an effective way of ensuring that the powers, privileges and immunities which normally apply to a member when sitting in this House will apply to him when he is in fact sitting in this physical building at the time of a joint sitting. That, of course, in its terms would not apply to any particular joint sitting but will govern a situation in future joint sittings. 
Of course, there has been a question before this House for some time as to whether the House itself - indeed, the Parliament - should be concerned about the privileges of the Parliament being committed to further legislation or rules that might be more clearly defined. That is a matter which was raised in the time of the Liberal-Country Party Government - before 1972. The question of privileges was raised at that time and inquiries were set in train. It is to be hoped that the present Government will continue the inquiries that were set in train. Some work was done on the matter with a view to declaring more precisely what those privileges would be. In those circumstances the House would, of course, be enabled to know more readily and the public would know more readily what are the powers and privileges of the Parliament. Unfortunately we are still in the rather archaic situation whereby, in order to determine what are the powers and privileges of members of this House, one has to go to Erskine May's 'Parliamentary Practice' and through all sorts of customs in the English parliaments in order to define them. The motion was a motion which we of the Opposition were very happy to support. 
-This legislation on trade practices, when it passes into law, as it may well do later today or tomorrow, will not cure inflation. It will not have any real effect on inflation. The Opposition, in a constructive way, either will agree to or will not oppose some of the amendments which are before the Committee. The fact is that the Government brought in this legislation last September, as the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has said. At that time the Government forced this legislation through the House. The legislation then came before this House early in November, and at that time it was again sought to bring reason to bear on the Government so that the legislation might be considered in a reasonable atmosphere. Unfortunately, that was not to be and finally the legislation was forced through this House. We know that the history is that by April this year it was brought back and introduced into the Senate. We know that on that occasion it came back with some 110 amendments and that those 110 or perhaps more amendments were the result of consideration of the Bill by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in the light of matters brought up by the Opposition. When this Bill came before the House again in July it was debated and we suggested again quite a number of amendments. There are 24 amendments before this House today and, of those, some 18 or 19 were proposed in this House and opposed by the Government at the time. The Bill then went to the Senate, it was debated, and the Government then accepted those amendments. 
Two or three amendments, particularly those relating to clause 76 of the Bill, cause the Opposition some concern. It will appear to honourable members if they look at the Bill that that provision relates to the onus of proof in proceedings brought by the Government to recover penalties. Those penalties can amount to up to $250,000. The Opposition took the view, and still takes the view, that it is fair enough that in such proceedings there be proof beyond reasonable doubt of any particular breach. The Government resisted that and finally was forced to amend clause 76 in such a way as to require strict proof. By that we understand the Government to mean proof beyond reasonable doubt. Apparently the Government still wishes this question to remain in a state of doubt so that the courts will have to consider it. In other words, although the Government appears to agree with us in principle it insists on a clause which will not clarify the matter at all. We will not oppose those particular provisions. As to the others, we will agree with them. The particular ones to which I refer are those numbered 14, 15 and 16. 
The Minister has referred to the fact that we have had trade practices legislation for some time. We on this side of the house do not agree that that legislation has not been effective. One has only to read the reports of the Commissioner of Trade Practices to realise what effect it has had. Indeed many of the pricing agreements in this country have already been brought to heel and the fact is that, due to that, this proposed Act, when it comes into force, will have little effect on inflation and prices. The fact is that those in industry who have price fixing agreements have adjusted under the old Act. I draw the attention of honourable members to the report of the Commissioner of Trade practices which was tabled in this House in July this year. There has up to date been effective legislation. There have been constitutional challenges- they were necessary- and, may I remind the Minister, they were undertaken by the previous Government. It was the previous Government that established before the High Court the wide powers under the corporations power in relation to trade practices. If it had not been for the fact that the previous Government persisted with the validity of that legislation and made it the basis of the Resale Price Maintenance Act, this Government would now be floundering in a constitutional bog instead of being in a position where it can go ahead with the feeling that this legislation has a great deal of constitutional validity behind it. We will support the amendments other than those numbered 14, 15 and 16. As to those, we will not oppose them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-The matter under consideration is a very basic one, and it is one that raises a very important aspect of parliamentary procedure. For that reason it should be approached in a bipartisan manner and in a way which will lead to the question of pecuniary interest being dealt with in all its aspects. I would suggest to honourable members opposite that there is a deep need to go into the question on a broad ranging inquiry. For that reason I support very strongly the amendment proposed. We need to get this matter into perspective because as you will be aware,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we have a standing order which deals with this matter. If I might remind honourable members of what it says, standing order 1 96 reads: 
No member shall be entitled to vote in any division upon a question (not being a matter of public policy) in which he has a direct pecuniary interest not held in common with the rest of the subjects of the Crown. The vote of a member may not be challenged except on a substantive motion moved immediately after the division is completed, and the vote of a member determined to be so interested shall be disallowed. 
I have not checked this, but no doubt that standing order has been in the Standing Orders since the Standing Orders of this Parliament came into existence. Of course, that standing order puts into words the ruling of  Speaker  Abbott, to which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  referred. That ruling was expressed in 1811. It appears therefore that we do have a ruling. I would imagine that if the  Clerk  of the House was consulted he could tell honourable members that it may have been invoked occasionally, but not very often, since this House first met. Indeed, that appears to have been the experience in the United Kingdom. On page 5 of the Strauss report the  Clerk  of the House of Commons gave some evidence. In paragraph 16 he said: 

 Mr Speaker Abbott's ruling has been at once so comprehensive and so well observed that there is only a single recorded instance of the votes of members on a public matter being disallowed- namely, in 1 892 on a motion for a grant in aid in connection with a projected East African railway. 
That evidence was given in 1969 but it does tell us that this is not a matter which often arises. It is also a matter which can be considered coolly. It is a matter that ought to be considered on a bipartisan basis and on a broad basis. The terms of reference of the Strauss Committee were simply these: 
To consider the rules and practices of the House in relation to the declaration of members' interests and to report thereon. 
They are very broad terms, yet they led to a statement of view that there ought not to be a register. Whether there ought to be a register and the problems that can arise in relation to it have to some extent been ventilated by honourable members who have preceded me in the debate, and I do not propose to go into them at any length. However, one does need to ask the question: Is there really any need to define the meaning of 'pecuniary interest'? Indeed, is it desirable? The view that the Strauss Committee expressed was that under English parliamentary practice it was better that the phrase should remain undefined. Of course, this has been the practice of the common law, and it has been a practice which has been found apposite to those of us who practise the common law because we know that a broad phrase like that is capable of being applied to instances as they arise. If one starts to define such a phrase the danger is that instead of being broad it will be restricted. Indeed, the question does arise whether standing order 196 in itself is not an appropriate standing order to retain and whether it does not do justice to the problem of pecuniary interest. We on this side of the House, of course, support a broad ranging inquiry. I would urge on the Special Minister of State the willingness to co-operate that has been expressed in this debate. I would urge on him the desirability of either accepting our amendment or, if he finds it difficult to accept it at the moment, of adjourning this debate so that the matter could be considered by the other side of the House. 
There have been inquiries in other places. There has been an inquiry in Victoria and an inquiry in Canada. All sorts of matters arise once this question is examined. Let me read to the House the principles, the guidelines that were expressed in the Green Paper that was presented to the House of Commons in Canada. The principles may indicate to honourable members on both sides of the House the need for a wide ranging inquiry in order to deal with this matter properly. The Green Paper states: 
A Member of Parliament is a trustee of public confidence and must perform and appear to perform his duties in a manner reflecting the highest degree of concern for the public interest. Moreover, a Member of Parliament must at all times ensure that his actions do not detract from the dignity of Parliament, and the respect and confidence which society places in it. 
That is a very basic principle, and so far as I am concerned it is one that always has been observed by members of this Parliament. The Green Paper further states: 
Members of Parliament should make every reasonable effort to avoid even the appearance of those conflicts of interest that are not inherent in a representative democracy. 
Where possible, the rules on conflict of interest should be formulated so as not to restrict unduly candidacy for the Canadian House of Commons or unnecessarily prevent any group in society from holding membership in the House of Commons or Senate. 
That is a very important principle, as well. One needs to consider the effect that restrictive rules on declaration of interest may indeed have on possible candidates. The Green Paper continues: 
The rules on conflict of interest should attempt to provide the public with that information which is relevant to the question of conflict of interest while safeguarding the individual Members' right to privacy regarding information which the public does not require. 
The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has quite rightly referred to the question of privacy and human rights. It is a matter of considerable importance that the privacy of members of Parliament be preserved. Every one of us is subjected to public scrutiny in one way or another and indeed it is proper that we should be, but at the same time we are entitled to live our private lives and there ought to be a balance between public interest in disclosure and the right of privacy of the individual to which every member of Parliament ought to be entitled, consistent with his duty to the public. A committee properly appointed with broad terms of reference would be able to consider that matter over a period and reflect upon it. The Green Paper goes on: 
The right of members of the public to equal access and impartial treatment by government officials should be respected at all times. 
The rules on conflict of interest of Members of Parliament should assume the form most appropriate to their application and to the general problem area. Those rules which are capable of precise definition and which can, therefore, be objectively tested should usually be set out in legislation. Those rules which can only be stated in subjective language, and must rely for their application on the individual circumstances of each situation, should be set out in a less formal manner. 
There lies a very important matter because, if it is to be dealt with, it may require legislation. That may be the constitutional view which is takenthat if a register is to be set up it has to become the subject of legislation. Of course if one is to consider legislation then one has to consider the form it is to take, the breadth of it and the narrowness of it and the need to take into account the matters that the Canadian Green Paper expresses in rule 6. The Green Paper continues: 
The public should be granted a limited avenue to initiate investigations into apparent violations of the statutory provisions regarding conflicts of interest. 
Through a process of continuing review Parliament should ensure that the legislation and the rules governing conflict of interest are relevant to changing situations. 
So in the Canadian Green Paper, 8 rules are set out which indicate that this is a matter which requires a broad approach. The Strauss report in England indicates it, and we on this side of the House would strongly urge honourable members opposite to accept the amendment. If they cannot accept it tonight, would they please consider adjourning this debate so that they can consider what we on this side of the House have put to them in our speeches tonight. 
I shall be very brief in my remarks on this matter. This Bill is designed to enable public servants of the Northern Territory who resign in order to stand for election to the Legislative Assembly to be reinstated in the unhappy event- an event which none of us in this place wishes to contemplatethat they are unsuccessful. It is a Bill which the Government wishes to be dealt with as a matter of great urgency because, I understand, nominations close tomorrow. As always the Opposition will co-operate in putting through a measure such as this, which is both reasonable and progressive and which in a specific way is designed to uphold the dignity and freedom of the individual. 
Honourable members need no reminder that under section 44 of the Constitution any person who holds any office of profit under the Crown is incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a member of the House of Representatives or of the Senate. That is, of course, a very basic and important principle. It is designed to preserve the independence of our Parliament. It was fitting that when the constitution of the Legislative Council was provided for in the Northern Territory (Administration) Act a similar principle should be adopted. So one finds in section 4ka, for instance, of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act that a person is not qualified to be a candidate for election as a member of the Legislative Council if, at the date of nomination, he is employed in the Public Service of the Territory or of the Commonwealth. That provision meant that in the absence of any other provision a public servant had to resign and forfeit his rights to superannuation and so on. Naturally enough that inhibits public servants from standing for election and from entering politics, which is something that none of us would want to inhibit them from doing. 
In 1960 the Liberal-Country Party Government moved to remedy this situation by inserting provisions in the Public Service Act- sections 47c and 82b- to ensure that a public servant who stands for election but who fails can be reinstated. Consequential amendments were made subsequently by a previous government to the Superannuation Act and provisions were made in the Defence (Parliamentary Candidates) Act 1969. They were enacted to extend similar rights to members of the defence forces. The Bill now before the House makes similar provision in relation to members of the Australian and Northern Territory Public Service who wish to nominate for election. It is to be hoped that in the public interest similar encouragement might be given by private employers to their employees. In order to do that they would, of course, have to amend their superannuation provisions. The Opposition welcomes and supports this measure. 
-In this House this morning we debated for a little while a matter of public importance- the attitude of the Government to the activities of the Aus.tralian Building Construction Employees and Builders' Labourers Federation. There was revealed in that debate this morning a set of facts which are nothing short of disturbing. I rise in the adjournment debate tonight - 
-May I as the present member for Wentworth and on behalf of my people extend to Lady Harrison and her family our deep sympathy on the passing of  Sir Eric.  Having heard the tributes paid by other honourable members I regret that my youth did not permit me to know him. As has already been said, he was the member for Wentworth from 1931 until 1956 when he became the Australian High Commissioner to London. He gave 25 years of great service. He is remembered by the people of his electorate for his independence of spirit, his devotion to their welfare and the great kindliness and friendliness with which he performed his duties. Some honourable members may recall that he held the electorate of Wentworth comfortably on all occasions but one. In 1943 he was challenged by the redoubtable Jessie Street and the then youthful but as always independent William Charles Wentworth. Despite such opposition he was able clearly to confirm his majority. 
He is known to those who knew him as a man of integrity, loyalty and faith. I can find no better words to pay tribute to him than those used by  Sir Robert  Menzies when  Sir Eric  resigned from this House. On that occasion  Sir Robert  said: 
He is a true man of singular character and of great straightforwardness, as we all know- never concealing a view and never going round a corner to say what he might have said face to face. He is a man of utter integrity. I am sure that I speak for all honourable members when I say that he carries with him our great respect, our affection and our good wishes. 
The electorate of Wentworth joins in paying tribute to a fine member and a fine Australian. 
Have the Prime Minister and his Government prided themselves on their desire to promote adherence to the principles of international law on the part of Australia and other states? Was it this desire that prompted his Government to commence proceedings against France in the International Court of Justice to ban nuclear testing in the atmosphere? Will the Prime Minister agree that the occupation by the Soviet Russian Government of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania was illegal under international law and has remained so? Will the Prime Minister also agree that in the Declaration on Principles of International Law Concerning Friendly Relations, co-sponsored by Australia and unanimously adopted by the United Nations in October 1970, it is provided that no territorial acquisition resulting from the threat or use of force shall be recognised as legal? Does the Prime Minister recall that in the Namibia case in 1971 the International Court condemned South Africa's continued unlawful occupation- 
If I may enter into this fascinating debate, I notice that if one looks at Schedule C to the report of  Mr Justice  Sweeney this amendment is not suggested. In other words, this is an amendment which has come in, possibly at the suggestion of the Minister or his Department or maybe at the suggestion of the draftsman. Section 136, which this purports to amend, is a very important section because it says that: 
Every organisation registered under this Act shall for the purposes of this Act have perpetual succession and a common seal, and may purchase take on lease hold sell lease mortgage exchange and otherwise own possess and deal with any real or personal property. 
This is the provision which gives the organisation a corporate character; this is the provision which gives it perpetual succession; this is the provision which enables it to own property. 
Harking back to what has just been said, it is not true to say that the federal body would own property under this purported amendment section 133 A, or that the branch would own property. The fact is that the federal organisation, even under the amendment, would own the property. It would remain the property of the federal body. In other words, the fact is that there would be 2 funds set up, or maybe 7 funds- 6 State funds and the federal fund- and they would be managed and controlled in accordance with different rules. They would be kept separately, but the ownership of the property under section 136 would of course remain in the federal organisation. The words 'for the purposes of this Act' are very important because, if we go back into the institutional history, we know that in the Jumbunna case, and the Minister will recall that, the High Court said that incidental to the industrial power organisations of employers and employees could be established. Of course, the Act which does this is the Act we are now dealing with and it was for the purposes of conciliation and arbitration under this Act that the High Court said these organisations could be formed. Therefore these words 'for the purposes of this Act' are very important. It may be that the only purpose for which an organisation can be formed constitutionally is for the purpose of this Act. 
I wonder why these words are being taken out. They may underline the lack of constitutionality in the provisions which the Government is seeking to put into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. For my own part I would suggest to the Minister, although we have passed by the clause, that he should give further consideration to clause 2, which provides that the Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the royal assent. As the debate has just indicated, we know that the provisions of this Act by and large may not be of much importance if they are not underpinned either by the support of the unions or by complementary legislation on the part of the States. If this legislation is to go on to the statute book then I would suggest to the Minister that it is very important that the legislation does not turn out to be of no practical use because it does not get any support. It is very important that these words stay in for the time being so that any doubt as to the constitutionality of section 136 should not be cast on that section. The way to do that, of course, would be to provide that this Act shall come into operation on a day to be proclaimed, the usual sort of alternative provision. 
It may be that the Minister has a reason for taking out the words; it may be that he could not press this amendment to the Act, but I do suggest to him that because of the history of the constitutional interpretation of the industrial power those words are tremendously important and to omit them could lead to the invalidity of section 136 and therefore of a very significant section. Naturally, the Minister would not want to do that. I do not want to suggest grave doubts, but there is no reason to put anything in doubt or feed the lawyers any more than they are already fed, and there will be nobody quicker than the Minister to agree with me on that point. 
I refer to clause 1 1 which seeks to include section 142  a  in the Act. The Minister will know that that was not one of the provisions which was included in the Sweeney report. Therefore, I ask the Minister why this clause has been included in the Bill. It is a provision which, unlike other provisions, operates of its own force and does not require any pre-conditions to occur for it to come into operation. That is to say, proposed new section 136a, for instance, requires, as has already been pointed out, certain action on the part of unions and certain action on the part of States to give the ground for the implementation of that section. On the other hand, proposed new section 142a, as I say, operates of its own force. I would like to know from the Minister whether it is intended that that provision should operate before the other procedure comes into operation to implement the Sweeney report. If not, might the 
Minister not consider that proposed new section 142a and its operation should depend upon the same conditions that bring the other sections into operation. This could be achieved by an amendment to clause 2-1 come back to it- to make the whole of the provisions come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation so that after the Bill becomes an Act the consultations can take place with the States, the unions can get thenrules in order and the whole matter can then proceed. We can then have the High Court constitutional challenge after all that is done. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that one of the most pressing problems presently facing companies is a gross lack of liquid funds? Is the legislation that requires 4-monthly payments of income tax by companies proving a constant drain on corporate liquidity? Has the Government considered suspending this legislation for the time being as a means of providing increased liquidity in the economy? 
-I depart from the Treasury estimates, which are a matter of grave concern to us all, to the quiet preserves of the law. Under Division 132 of the estimates $220,000 is to be set aside for an Australian ombudsman. Most of us, I think, will welcome the fact that this item appears in the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. It is now 43 years since Lord Hewitt wrote 'The New Despotism'. In that year he pointed out to the people of the United Kingdom the problems that arise from a rampant bureaucracy. One does not require an ombudsman because one has an inefficient bureaucracy. One needs an ombudsman to protect the individual in his dealings with a bureaucracy whether it be efficient or not. In the course of his duties the ombudsman naturally will reveal inefficiencies. But an ombudsman is, I believe, an essential part of our democratic process today. 
It is now 6 years since the Kerr Committee was appointed. That Committee reported to the Parliament in August 1971. One might be forgiven for being a little sceptical at the statement in the explanatory notes on the estimates that the Bill to establish an office of ombudsman will be introduced in the Budget session. I hope that the Government's legislative program will be such that this intention will be carried out. Australia has nothing of which to be proud so far as its performance in this area is concerned. An ombudsman was appointed in New Zealand in 1962. Since then a parliamentary commissioner has been appointed in the United Kingdom. There has, of course, been developed in France and in the United States a sophisticated program and legislation on administrative law for many years. Honourable members will recall that the Kerr Committee suggested a number of matters. First of all, there was the suggestion that a general administrative review tribunal be established. Secondly, there was a suggestion that there be an office called a Counsel for Grievances. That office was not understood either by the Press or, if I may say so, by the members of this House at the time. The Counsel for Grievances was really another name for an ombudsman. 
The third suggetion that the Kerr Committee made was that the procedures for review before the court of administrative descretions be brought up to date. We are still operating on the prerogative writ procedures that go back to the Middle Ages. It is not too much to suggest that we in this Parliament might bring them up to date soon. Only one aspect of the Kerr Committee report has been taken up. It was taken up by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government when it appointed the Bland Committee late in 1 97 1 . That Committee presented its report in January 1973, just after this Government came into office. Now, some 16 or 18 months later, we are promised an ombudsman. Perhaps it is not wrong to suggest that we may be too optimistic in thinking that the Bill will find its way into the House in the Budget session. The fact is, of course, that the suggestion of an ombudsman came from the previous Government. It was taken up by the present Government in its policy speech in 1972. Only now is something being done about it. 
It is to be noted that in the interim Bland report of January 1973, reference is made to the question whether ministerial decisions should be subject to review. As honourable members will realise, some ministerial decisions relate to policy and others are of a purely administrative nature. The Committee pointed out the difference between the two and suggested that there might be some difficulty in determining what are policy discretions and what are administrative. The Attorney-General, of course, had that report and it appears that he gave some direction to the Committee. That direction was that ministerial discretions were not to be subject to review. At page 6, paragraph 33, of the final report of the Bland Committee of October1973 we read: 
To be disposed of at once is scope for possible misunderstanding. On the one hand, as has been stated above, our Terms of Reference do not exclude consideration of discretionary powers related to matters of administration exercised by a Minister. On the other hand, in our Interim Report we were at pains to raise the question whether administrative decisions of Ministers should be examinable by the Ombudsman process. We have proceeded on the basis of your advice to our  Chairman  that the answer was- No. 
I suggest to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  through the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who is at the table, that he give very careful reconsideration to this decision. Why is it that the administrative decisions of Ministers should be free from inquiry by the ombudsman who is to be appointed? 
Appendix H of the final Bland Committee report of October 1973 sets out a large number of administrative discretions in a great variety of statutes which provide for no review. Many of those are discretions of Ministers. They refer to all sorts of Acts. Take, for instance, the Citizenship Act under which the Minister has the power to grant a certificate of Australian citizenship. He has a discretion as to whether to grant it. These are basic rights, one would think, that a person should have, and if they are refused there ought to be some right to have the matter reviewed. Apparently the Attorney-General has taken the view that this should not be subject to review. In the short time at my disposal I merely want to bring to the attention of" honourable members the fact that this is the situation. I hope that the 
Attorney-General, when preparing this legislation, will give careful thought to whether, in his desire to protect human rights about which he speaks often, he will at least protect the citizen from the decisions of Ministers of the Crown which may be just as defective because Ministers rely on the advice and support of bureaucratic people in making their decisions. They may be in error. Of course, there are many cases before the courts in which Ministers have been held to be in error. There will be many such cases in the future, because to err is human and we all err. 
The danger therefore is that this ombudsman that we are to have may turn out to be a squib. He may turn out to be a person who will not really protect the citizen at all. But what is going to happen in relation to other aspects of the Kerr report? Where is the general administrative review tribunal suggested by the Kerr Committee and which had also been recommended by the Bland Committee? Where are the up to date procedures that were going to provide that administrative review either to the expected Australian Superior Court or to the Australian Industrial Court? In these estimates I can find no trace of them. I suggest that these are areas of human rights which are of tremendous importance to people in our community. They are matters about which the Government could take positive steps, but it is not taking them. The Human Rights Bill, in my estimation, is not nearly as important as the administrative review procedures that could be introduced into Australia. We are lagging behind the rest of the world. We are deficient in our procedures and it is time that we brought them up to date and at least got to the same position as the people in New Zealand and in the United Kingdom are in. We are grossly defective in this area and I hope that in reviewing the legislation that he is to bring before the House the Attorney-General will give urgent consideration to these other aspects of administrative review. 
We will take our fair go. The perils of modern living have subjected people to greater risk of injury than ever before from the elements in our society which are intended to assist people to enjoy life more. The greatest hazard to modern man, I think, has proved to be the motor vehicle. Apart from the motor car, there are machines and instruments by which goods are produced and services are provided. As the number of motor cars multiplied and factories expanded, injuries increased and, with them, claims for damages. 
Faced by innumerable claims, the law was constrained to meet the challenge, and meet the challenge it did. It did so by adapting old forms of action which now make up the modern law of tort, particularly negligence. For the enforcement of these claims court procedures were adopted- including courts, judges, juries, laws of evidence, lawyers, etc- and because the guilty motorist or employer needed protection, this was accompanied by the development of compulsory third party and workers compensation insurance. 
Today motor vehicle, industrial accident and workers compensation cases occupy more of the courts' time than any other type of case. At all levels- district court, county court, supreme court and at the appellate level- the time of our courts is taken up by these cases. Indeed much of the time of our High Court is taken up by the consideration of cases involving the assessment of damages in accident cases at considerable economic expense to the community in the form of court buildings, judges' salaries, court costs, insurance premiums and, last but not least, of all counsels' and solicitors' fees. All this has taken place and, of course, we have the prospect of this increasing. Much of the time of the court is spent in determining the issue of fault and the balance on assessing the damages suffered according to formulae that might seem to some to be artificial but which have attempted to give the victim reasonable compensation for his or her injury. At the same time, third party insurance has become much less profitable for many insurers. Workers compensation has remained profitable but at the cost of greatly increased premiums. Some indication of this can be taken from the recently published report of the QBE Insurance Group Ltd, wherein it is stated: 
The results for the year were severely and adversely affected by the following major factors: 
The impact of inflation and increasing benefit levels on workers' compensation claims in Australia. This impact applies not only to the new claims notified, but requires an upgrading of estimates for all earlier claims in course of settlement Workers' compensation claims taken into account in the financial year were $19,409,000, an increase of $1 1,453,000 on the figure for the 1973 accounting period. 
Rapidly increasing Court awards and settlements under motorists' compulsory third party business in Australia. Claims paid and outstanding taken into account in respect of compulsory third party business in the year were $3,133,000, an increase of $ 1 ,653,000 over the previous period. 
Those statements give an idea of the mounting cost of insurance premiums and the effect on insurance companies of claims under these types of policies. 
Over recent years a fresh community attitude has developed towards compensation- that is, that since injury and sickness are to a large degree the result of living in society, those who suffer should be compensated irrespective of fault. It was this that prompted  Sir Victor  Windeyer to say at the Twelfth Legal Convention of the Law Council of Australia: 
The real consideration in my view is that the whole system of negligence actions is outmoded in ordinary accident cases. The actions are utterly unreal. We live in an insurance age; we live in a motorised and mechanical age. People are suffering from accidents which are part of the hazards of the times we live in; they arise not out of and in the course of our employment but out of and in the course of our daily lives . . . 
Thus there are very strong reasons for the adoption of a system for compensating victims of accidents and sickness which eliminates the necessity to prove fault, and it is fitting that it be provided, if possible, by the national Parliament exercising the great social services power of this Commonwealth. I believe the community is ready for and needs an alternative system to that now prevailing. It is expensive, inefficient and outmoded. For my own part I would concede that such a system could properly involve the termination of the common law right to sue for damages. The right to sue is a means to compensation. If there is substituted a system which is more efficient and which will guarantee fair and equitable compensation, the right can go. It is a dispensable right and not a fundamental human right. The Opposition is interested in the introduction of such a system. The question we face in the legislation before us is whether it provides a fair and equitable system of compensation. 
As has been said by previous speakers, it is unfortunate that this legislation is being rushed through the Parliament despite indications to the contrary that time would be given. I believe that this can only denigrate from this House of Parliament. When a social measure of this nature comes before the House of Representatives, surely it is the sort of legislation that should go to a committee. Being here for the first time in the last few months, I find it hard to believe that such legislation is not going to a committee. The legislation will potentially alter a significant part of the way of life of the Australian people if it is passed. I think the present procedure puts this House in a position of inferiority, if I may say so, to the Senate that stands opposite. It is time that we in this House took very seriously these fundamental matters when they come before the Parliament and allowed time for proper and due consideration, not necessarily in debate that is rushed but in a way that will allow a mature consideration on a non-party basis- that is what the Minister said in his second reading speech; mature consideration on a 'non-party basis '-in a committee. But that we are not to have. There are 46 amendments proposed and there is no time for their consideration. It is difficult for the Opposition to deal with the measure in any form other than that in which it was introduced. 
Having made these broad observations and having indicated the Opposition's desire to find a suitable scheme, I pass to a consideration of the legislation. The linchpin of this scheme is the abolition of the common law right. Those provisions are found in clauses 9 1 and 92 of the Bill. There are a number of observations I would like to make. Firstly, the abolition of the right must be accompanied by a fair and equitable right to compensation. I will deal with this subsequently. Secondly, the guilty should not be advantaged at the expense of the innocent. It is tremendously important that those who have a right to obtain damages under the existing system- because they are the innocent victims of motor car accidents- should have no less right under the system that is to be introduced. In other words, the guilty should not be advantaged at the expense of the innocent. Again if the common law right cannot be abolished much of the economy of the scheme disappears and we must realise that. That is why this abolition of the common law right, as I apprehend it, is the very linchpin of the Government's scheme. If it is not abolished people will still need third party insurance. Employers will need common cover in industrial accidents. 
The other matter to which I should like to refer is this: The constitutional power to abolish the common law right appears to be open to considerable doubt. I need only quote from the document circulated to members by the New South Wales Bar Council wherein it says: 
It seems that this is beyond the constitutional power of the Commonwealth. 
This document was prepared by the New South Wales Bar Council, of which the  President  is now  Mr Tom  Hughes, formerly Attorney-General in this Parliament. The introduction of this scheme must depend on proper arrangements with insurance companies. There must be some method whereby liabilities under existing policies can be met. In other words, if the introduction of the scheme does depend on such arrangements with insurance companies and they are to be made, obviously those insurance companies will give up the system that they now have and will go out of business. This has to be done by 1 July 1976. By then, if it is accepted and the common law right is terminated, insurance companies will have ceased their business in the accident field. This part of the insurance industry would be dismantled. On present indications, it would only be after that that the constitutional question would be determined. If, as is quite possible, the High Court holds that there is no power to abolish the common law right to damages it will produce a chaotic situation. In the meantime while the constitutional question is under review claims will be made by people saying that they have a common law right. When the constitutional question is decided and if it is against the Government, those claims would be viable. It will be during a period when the insurance industry will be going out of existence in this area. 
The next thing that will happen is that the linchpin of the Government's scheme will have disappeared. The economies to society said to flow from the elimination of the common law right will have disappeared. If the scheme is to proceed on the basis of the elimination of that right it is on very shaky constitutional grounds. The constitutional problem must be solved first either by obtaining co-operation from the States, something which this Government seems to be incapable of doing, or by having the constitutional question determined before the scheme comes into operation and before the insurance industry is dismantled as was done by the arrangement over the Marriage Act in the early 1960s. It is important to realise however that unless the common law right can be abolished a great deal of the economic value of the scheme to society will be lost. This also means we are not able to assess the costs at present. 
The next question to which I should like to advert is whether the scheme provides fair and equitable compensation to accident victims even with the 46 amendments proposed by the Government. This is highly questionable and it is the reason the motion has been moved by the Opposition. I concede at the outset that it is not enough to condemn the scheme that in essence it provides for periodic rather than lump sum payments. A periodic payment scheme could, I believe, provide fair and equitable compensation in substitution for the present system. The question is whether it does. As I have said already, it is important that under a new scheme the guilty are not advantaged at the expense of the innocent, that the drunken middle-aged driver is not advantaged at the expense of the innocent child whom he maims for life. As I understand the scheme, this is precisely what could happend 
The Law Council of Australia has pinpointed a number of respects in which the scheme appears to be unfair. Other speakers have dealt with these aspects. The Law Council also points out that compensation payments would not be related to the earnings of the victim in the case of permanent partial incapacity. The effect therefore is that the small maimed child of 5 gets nothing immediately. Only when the child attains 18 years of age is a small amount of $42-odd a week paid. Surely that is a gross inequity in itself for under the present common law system the child would be entitled to substantial lump sum payments as soon as they were assessed. The guilty drunken driver, however, who gets nothing under the present system of common law damages gets 85 per cent of his average weekly earnings if he is totally and permanently incapacitated. He might be earning $25,000 a year so he would get $21,250 a year. I choose this illustration not to demonstrate that the fault principles should not be abolished but to emphasise that if a new scheme is adopted involving the elimination of the common law right, the benefits which a person obtains should compare favourably with those which he or she could receive at present. 
Other examples could be given but some have been dealt with already and others will be dealt with by subsequent speakers. A procedure has been adopted which, of course, involves extremely wide discretions in the administration of this scheme. It is always doubtful whether the administrative method is a satisfactory substitute for judicial settlement. If the matter to be decided is not complex in fact or in law, or is based on formulae, the administrative method may be sufficient. However, here the discretions are complex and it is vital that ultimately the issues can be referred to a judicial type inquiry. The proponents of the Bill have attempted to do this. On analysis honourable members will find that there are 3 levels of inquiry- wide discretions before the Secretary, an appeal to an appeal tribunal and then a further appeal to a court. The result of that is that substituted for the present system, which constitutes in some States an investigation before a judge with or without a jury and in other cases before some administrative tribunal, we get 3 separate inquiries. In the appeal tribunal and before the court there will be lawyers. Undoubtedly the procedures, although there is a desire for informality, will be formalised. There will be cross-examination and costs. The result of this scheme if adopted at the administrative level can be 3 levels of inquiry. Let us understand on what basis a matter goes from the tribunal to the High Court, the Industrial Court, or the Supreme Court of the States, because there will be no Superior Court. When the matter reaches the court it will be in the original jurisdiction of the court. As the Bill rightly says, the court can look at the matter again and so the lawyers come along. Again there is a full scale hearing on appeal from the appeal tribunal. It is not confined to a question of law. All the matter must involve is a question of law and the ingenuity of lawyers in this country does not need to be taxed very greatly to find a question of law, particularly in a complex piece of legislation such as we have here involving the exercise of discretions in relation to very complex matters. 
The system of assessment that is adopted is more complex, more expensive and more likely to lead to the involvement of lawyers, more likely to lead to the use of technicalities and more likely to lead to tremendous expense. For those reasons I suggest that the Government should not be carried away by the grandiose quality of this scheme. It should not fail to overlook the necessity for justice in its implementation. I suggest that the Government give further thought to our proposition that this Bill should be taken away and redrafted or, alternatively, that it should be sent to a committee of this House so that we in this place at last may find ourselves with a committee that is dealing with something of great importance to our nation. 
-Will the  Deputy  Prime Minister confirm that textile firms in Tasmania face a shutdown early next year if substantial orders are not received soon? Will the Minister agree that import quotas would give relief much more quickly than an increase in tariffs? Will the Government immediately impose quotas on the import of textiles in order to give the earliest assistance to manufacturers and employees in the textile industry in Tasmania and elsewhere in Australia? 
-This is an amendment to one of the oldest Acts of the Commonwealth which has stood the passage of time, unlike much of the legislation that is going through the House at the moment. It has remained on the statute book for 70 years untrammelled. The Opposition is very happy to support this amendment to bring the Act into line with the decision of this House to adopt metric measurements. We offer no opposition to the Bill and wish it a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry received the report known as the task force report covering the textile industry in Tasmania and elsewhere? Is it a fact that the report recommends particular special assistance to the textile industry in Launceston and Wangaratta? Will the Minister tell the House what special assistance was recommended for Launceston and what steps the Government proposes to take in relation to that recommendation? 
-I move: 
In proposed new paragraph (m) omit 'performing', substitute 'whose duties include'. 
As the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out in the second reading debate, the clause suggested in this Bill goes beyond what was seemingly intended by the Government and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in his second reading speech. As was pointed out, the Minister referred to the second reading speech of the late  Mr Harold  Holt in 1956 when the definition of waterside worker was originally put in the legislation. It was clear that the purpose of this was to cover a case where ships were unloaded at remote places- then, for instance, Bell Bay, and now places like Gove, Groote Eylandt and the like. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that persons employed in those ventures are able to unload from ships not only the actual machinery, products, or goods that are being used in connection with an industrial undertaking- for instance at Gove in regard to the Nabalco bauxite undertaking-but also those goods which have been transported there by ship for use in hotels, motels and shops- in other words, ordinary stores or perhaps the furniture of people who live in and service the neighbourhood. 
If the Bill goes through in its present form all that would be permitted in such a case would be the unloading of products that are used in connection with the Nabalco undertaking. I have taken this undertaking as just one example. Goods for use in the local store would not be permitted to be unloaded from the ship. Products to be sold in any store, perhaps even the Aboriginal store at Yirrkala near Gove, could not be unloaded. 
The Opposition cannot believe that the Government really intends that this should happen. Of course, the significance of this is that although Gove is not a port at which there is a register for waterside workers at the moment, once a possible demarcation could arise it would be open to the Waterside Workers Federation to seek the registration, for example, of the port at Melville Bay under the Stevedoring Industry Act. The result would be, of course, that a register could be established and waterside workers would handle that part of a cargo which was for use in the local store and employees of the company would be responsible for the rest of the cargo. This is not a situation, of course, which we would suggest is likely to result in industrial harmony. It is not one which the Government, we respectfully suggest, ought to promote. Therefore, I have moved on behalf of the Opposition an amendment to clause (3) (n) which seeks to omit the word 'performing'. The clause reads at the moment: persons, being employees in the regular employment of a person carrying on an industrial undertaking . . . performing work in or in connection with stevedoring operations of the employer with respect to a cargo that is the product of, or is for use in or in connection with, that industrial undertaking. 
That is construed to mean 'whilst performing that work'. Whilst they were not performing that work they would not be exempted from the definition of waterside worker, that is to say, whilst they were unloading a ship in so far as the cargo related to goods for use in the local store. Our amendment seeks to delete the word 'performing' and to put back the words 'whose duties include'. Therefore as long as the duties of the persons who were unloading the ship included the unloading of that part of the cargo which was a product of, or for use in or in connection with an industrial undertaking, that would be sufficient. The fact that they took off the rest of the cargo which related to the local store would not require them to be regarded as waterside workers for the purposes of the Stevedoring Industry Act. 
It is for that reason that I have moved the amendment. We believe that the amendment would not only preserve industrial peace, and comply with the intention of the Government according to the Minister's second reading speech but also would be consistent with the original intention of this legislation and with a desire to cover the problem which brought about the amendment. The amendment would enable the legislation to cover the problem. At the same time it would not give rise tofurther problems in the nature of demarcation disputes which could ultimately lead to industrial unrest in areas as remote as Gove, the very idea of which is, of course, unthinkable. 
I wish to move a second amendment which has been circulated. It is a matter of regret, of course, that the Government was not prepared to accept the first amendment moved by the Opposition but one is optimistic that the Government may perhaps accept this amendment. The unfortunate effect of the amendment to the Act which has just been passed is that it will prevent certain Aboriginal seamen who are currently operating on vessels which ply between Darwin and various mission settlement stations from unloading the particular barges and ships at Darwin port. The effect of the amendment would be that those particular seamen would be regarded as waterside workers. Unless they register, then, of course, they could not unload the ships. 
I do not heed to elaborate on that matter in order to convince honourable members on either side of the House what the effect would be if they could be regarded as waterside workers in a registered port such as the port of Darwin. The Bill appears to be having the effect, when it comes into operation, of preventing Aboriginal seamen employed on mission vessels from unloading ships at Darwin. The existing firm, as was pointed out by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  which runs the barges between Darwin and the various settlements, is owned- honourable members opposite who are talking might listen to this- 70 per cent by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
No doubt the reason why the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Government saw fit to acquire a 70 per cent interest in this firm was to enable the training of Aboriginal people on these boats for the purpose of giving them experience in the loading and unloading of ships, the manning of ships and the like. 
It is perhaps, at first thought, unthinkable that the Government intended that that position should exist as a result of this legislation, if and when it comes into effect. 
The second point is that this has been going on for more than 10 years. That is to say, the barges have been plying between Darwin and mission settlements for more than 10 years. This activity of unloading the ships has been going on during that time. It is only recently that this problem of demarcation has come into existence as a result of division between the Waterside Workers' Federation and the Transport Workers' Union in Darwin. Why the Aboriginal seamen should have to be caught up in a demarcation dispute to me defies explanation at this late stage. It has been going on for 10 years. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the amendment to the Act will not affect current operations. The only effect of it so far as these barge operations are concerned is to open up old wounds- wounds that exist in the Darwin port between the Transport Workers' Union on the one hand and the Waterside Workers' Federation on the other. I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: 
Notwithstanding the amendment made by sub-section (1), paragraph (n) of the definition of 'waterside worker' in sub-section ( 1) of section 7 of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1973 continues to apply to operations that were being carried on immediately before the commencement of this Act. 
The effect of this amendment, as I have said, would be to preserve the existing operations within the terms of the old Act and so enable the particular operations of this company, which is 70 per cent owned by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, from being tainted with the fact that the Aboriginal seamen would suddenly find themselves waterside workers and, therefore, acquiring registration under the Stevedoring Industry Act. 
-I refer the Minister for Transport to his answer to a question asked in this House on 1 3 November in which he said that he would be receiving representations from Tasmanian members and senators of the Parliament on the possible closure of one or other of the Devonport and Wynyard airports. Had the Minister, previous to making that statement, made an interim decision to close at least one of those airports? Has the Minister received and considered those representations? Will the Minister now dispel rumours that have been circulating and assure the House and the people of those cities that neither of the airports will be closed and that the high standard of safety equipment for which Australia has been noted will be maintained at both airports? 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That business of the day be called on. 
Question put: 
That business of the day be called on. 
-Many honourable members will agree, no doubt, that the time has come for this Parliament to play its part in the preservation of our National Estate. The demand for it does not spring from this Government or its platform; it is, I believe, the will of all our people and reflects the growing awareness of all Australians that unless we intervene our technology and material greed will inevitably, although at times imperceptibly, destroy our natural assets. The Liberal Party's federal platform clearly recognises this. It states: 
The necessity to preserve our heritage and enrich the quality of life requires national as well as local, regional and State action. This action is needed to protect and develop properly our environment and our natural resources, minimise the pollution of our air, land and water, conserve our flora and fauna, preserve our historic buildings and sites and preserve and create urban and rural landscapes of beauty. 
The Opposition therefore supports this measure in principle and it is with pleasure that I speak in support in this debate. In a speech such as this one is tempted to be emotive and to express gratification that at last the national Parliament is taking steps towards the preservation of our natural resources. However, the measure demands more than emotion. Indeed, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  in his second reading speech appears to have avoided it. It requires careful consideration to ensure that the measure is appropriate to our federation and the proper protection of our environment. Although I have not checked it, I believe that one can properly say that never before has such a phalanx of power been marshalled to support a single measure before this Parliament. 
Clause 6 of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill states the objects of Part II of the Bill. It is on the draftsman's part both an expression of determination and a confession, of uncertainty. However, uncertainty as to the extent of constitutional power should never of itself be a reason for opposing an otherwise worthwhile legislative exercise of power; nor should it prevent a government, properly advised, treading where angels of constitutional probity have formerly feared to tread. The High Court, as we know, will readily give us the answer- not that the present measure lacks a degree of constitutional support. 
Clause 6 contains a series of sub-paragraphs which no doubt were intended by the draftsman to indicate the basis of power. The first object is to make provision 'appropriate to be established by the Australian Government, having regard to its status as a national government'. To some students of constitutional law that may seem at first strange, but of course in the books there is some support for the view that because on Federation there was created a nation, out of that nation there springs implied power to do certain things. Whether of course it would bring power sufficient to enable national parks and wildlife reserves to be established is a matter for the future. But no doubt that is what the draftsman has in mind. In clause 6 (b) is a reference to the Territories. Clearly the Commonwealth has power to pass laws with respect to parks in the Territories. Clause 6 (c) refers to the Australian coastal sea and clause 6(d) states: for purposes related to the rights (including sovereign rights) and obligations of Australia in relation to the continental shelf of Australia; 
Obviously those objectives are designed to take whatever benefit can be obtained from the rights of the Commonwealth, whatever they may be, in relation to the territorial sea and the continental shelf. No doubt in due course the High Court will tell us about that. Clause 6 (e) states:  for facilitating the carrying out by Australia of obligations under, or the exercise by Australia of rights under, agreements between Australia and other countries; 
Here again we have a reference to a power which has not yet been fully explored. In Burgess 's case in the High Court reference was made to the power of the High Court over external affairs. The big question will arise, of course, in the High Court, if this Bill should ever be challenged, as to whether treaties in relation to wildlife are an external affair which enables this Parliament to pass laws under that head of power. Clause 6 (f) states:  conductive to the encouragement of tourism between the States and between other countries and Australia. 
Here again there is a reference to a power- the trade and commerce power- which has not previously been used in quite this way in relation to tourism between the States and between other countries and Australia. Whether that will give a basis for this legislation may also be regarded as a matter for doubt. Be that as it may, it is against this constitutional background, one assumes, that the Bill has been drafted. Clearly enough the draftsman has cast his net as widely as possible and the result may be that the constitutional right of the national Parliament to participate in the field of nature conservation, both within the Territories and the States, will be substantiated. However, to date it must be remembered that the bulk of the control and regulation of national parks and wildlife has been undertaken by the States. I am optimistic that in his speech in reply the Minister for the Environment and Conservation will assert the Government's clear intention not to interfere but to co-operate with and to assist the States in their work in this field. 
The Opposition will propose certain amendments to emphasise within the Bill the intent of this Parliament that conservation in our nation must be a co-operative inter-governmental effort. For many years the States have been involved in the development of parklands. The funds made available and the expertise applied for this purpose have increased with public interest in conservation. Since 1967 a comprehensive National Parks and Wildlife Act has been in force in New South Wales and is presently being substantially amended. The Lands Acquisition Act 1955 included a provision which prevented the Commonwealth from acquiring by agreement or compulsory process land which was dedicated or reserved under State law as a public park or for public recreation. This would probably include areas set aside by States as national parks. 
An amendment which we propose to move and to which I am optimistic that the Government will agree, will ensure that no land in a State can be acquired by the Commonwealth for a park or wildlife reserve which is dedicated or reserved under a law of a State for purposes related to nature conservation or the protection of areas of historical, archaelogical or geological importance or areas having special significance for Aborigines. This will ensure that efforts by a State in this field will not be interfered with by the Commonwealth. It will be a very significant provision. Whilst the Bill will recognise that the development of national parks and wildlife reserves is a matter of inter-governmental cooperation, it will also recognise that if the States proceed with the development of areas such as these, their parks and reserves cannot be taken over by the Commonwealth. A heavy responsibility will therefore lie upon our States to protect our national heritage as priority will be given to State action in this field. 
This is consistent with past actions. It should also keep the decision-making close to the people and conservation groups involved. This Bill therefore will be an experiment in co-operative federalism. It must be implemented in that spirit of co-operation if our National Estate is to be preserved. The Bill evokes a spirit which is sadly lacking in inter-governmental relations in our nation today. It requires appreciation by both levels of government that this is a matter of mutual concern. We are sadly in need of a new spirit of federalism. I can do no better to describe it than by referrring to Reagan's work on 'The New Federalism', in which he states at pages 158 and 159: 
The difference between old style and new style federalism could be summed up this way: Old style federalism described a non-relationship between the national and state governments. New style federalism refers to a multifaceted positive relationship of shared action. The meaning of federalism today lies in a process of joint action, not in a matter of legal status. It lies not in what governments are, but in what they do. It is a matter of action rather than structure. It is dynamic and changing, not static and constant. 
If this spirit can find its way into the implementation of this Bill when it becomes law we will have touched the essence of federalism. 
A great deal of reliance has been placed by the Government on the external affairs power. This is reflected in clause 69 of the Bill. Under clause 69 the Governor-General may make regulations for giving effect to an agreement between 
Australia and any other country or countries relating to the protection or conservation of wildlife and incidental matters. That is a very broad provision. It could, of course, cover conventions of considerable international importance. It could cover conventions such as the new Law of the Sea Convention. It could cover articles of the existing Law of the Sea Conventions of 1958. It may be that in some circumstances it may not be a matter of concern because the convention is of a minor nature. However, the clause is so broad that the Opposition feels that it should be taken out of the Bill altogether. 
It has been the practice of successive Australian governments to submit significant international agreements to this House for approval. I do not believe it is a desirable constitutional practice to implement conventions by regulation which have never been sighted by this Parliament. Surely the introduction into our municipal law of provisions of international conventions is a matter for the members of this Parliament and not a matter for regulation by the Minister. Therefore, we seek the deletion of clause 69 from this Bill. 
The other reliance on the external affairs power to which I would refer is found in clause 7 (c) of the Bill. Clause 7 defines those areas in respect of which a proclamation can be made declaring a national park or reserve. In paragraph (c) 'area' is defined as follows: 
an area of sea over a part of the continental shelf of Australia in respect of which no right, title or interest is vested in a person other than Australia; 
This means that for the first time this Parliament would be giving power to the Governor-General to proclaim a national park over an area of the high seas. So far as I am aware, this is a completely new concept in Australia. Of course, it involves a degree of control over the high seas and this to a substantial extent as can be seen from a consideration of the proposed regulation making power. From such a consideration one can see the great extent to which the high seas will be subjected to regulation. This is important because Article 2 of the High Seas Convention states: 
The high seas being open to all nations, no State may validly purport to subject any part of them to its sovereignty. Freedom of the high seas is exercised under the conditions laid down by these articles and by the other rules of international law. It comprises, inter alia, both for coastal and non-coastal States: 
1 ) Freedom of navigation; 
2 ) Freedom of fishing; 
3 ) Freedom to lay submarine cables and pipelines; 
Freedom to fly over the high seas. 
One only has to cast one's mind quickly through clause 70, the regulation making power, to see the extent to which the Minister would be able to control a park which was declared over an area of the high seas. For instance, the GovernorGeneral in respect of a park declared over an area of the high seas could regulate or prohibit the pollution of water; he could provide for the protection and preservation of property and things there; regulate or prohibit access to it; provide for the removal of people from it; provide for the safety of persons; regulate the conduct of persons on the high seas; provide for the imposition and collection of charges for the use of vessels on the high seas; provide for the removal of vehicles, aircraft or vessels from places on the high seas where they have been left in contravention of the regulations; regulate or prohibit the use of vessels and the passage of vessels through the high seas and the landing or use of aircraft in and the flying of aircraft over the high seas. 
These are very extensive regulating regulation making powers. Of course, if one were only considering a national park on land one might regard those as proper powers for a park authority to have. But when one considers them in relation to Article 2 of the High Seas Convention which states that no State may validly purport to subject any part of the high seas to its sovereignty, one can see that clause 70, since it would refer to parks established by the Government on areas of the high seas, may come close to a breach of the High Seas Convention to which Australia is a party. I do not for one moment believe that the Government intends a breach of this Convention. The High Seas Convention is, of course, a very vital one in international law and one which we have respected and which we could not possibly breach. 
The reason this has happened, I believe, is that in this Bill a new concept is being developed, namely, parks on areas which are on the seas. The implications that flow from the degree of control that this regulation making power, which may well be apt for a reserve on land, would give over areas of the high seas may not have been thought through. I would draw this to the Minister's attention and ask him to draw it to the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  as it seems to me that it is a matter requiring careful consideration on the part of the Government. 
One other matter to which I would quickly advert is the police powers which are given to wardens under this Bill. Clause 40 provides that a warden may, without warrant, arrest any person, if the warden reasonably believes that the person has committed an offence against this Act. Sub-clause 4 of clause 40 states: 
The powers . . . may be exercised anywhere in Australia or the Australian coastal sea or in a park or reserve outside the Australian coastal sea. 
So it could be done on the high seas as well as on land or in any city, or in any home in the Commonwealth outside a park. Clause 42(2) contains a similar power for a warden to do things outside a park. My reason for referring to these provisions is simply to draw the attention of the Minister to the extent of them. I would suggest that it is highly undesirable now that there be more than one authority at any one time to enforce the law within general areas. Inside a park the warden has a clear function and his function is perhaps traditional to parks and reserves. But in so far as the person who has been in the park and committed an offence and then left the park is concerned I would suggest that it is a matter which is proper to be left to the ordinary police force. 
Another provision which requires consideration is clause 65 of the Bill which enables averments to be made. I would again suggest that it is too wide and that it ought to be restricted in some way and should be restricted to averments as to where a park is or into what part of a park an offence is alleged to have been committed and not an averment about the commission of the offence itself. Subject to those comments and subject to the comments which other speakers have made or will make, I am very happy to support this measure. 
-A.s I read sub-clause (2) of clause 10, what it is really saying is that not only must mining, which by definition includes prospecting and exploration, be done with the approval of the Minister for Minerals and Energy but it can only be mining of a non-private nature. That is to say, it has to be mining by or on behalf of or in co-operation with Australia or an authority of Australia. What we are seeking to do by this amendment is not to take away from the government of the da)' the right to say that a mining operation shall be conducted on a reserve; all we are seeking to do is to substitute the words 'Governor-General' so that the Executive Council, and therefore the Cabinet, can decide whether mining operations are to be allowed and whether they be private or public. 
There is no reason as we see it for making a choice in the legislation between private and public mining operations. Indeed, if one harks back to the question of the seabed, the sub-claus(. now under discussion depends to some extent for its interpretation and effect on the operations of clause 7(b) and 7 (d) which talk about:  an area of the Australian coastal sea in respect of the sea- bed and subsoil beneath . . . 
And-  an area of land or sea outside the Australian coastal .sea in respect of which Australia has, under an agreement between Australia . . . obligations . . . 
Of course, that can cover the continental shelf and of course, under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act there already may be in existence licences to recover minerals or licences to explore for minerals on the sea-bed. Indeed operations very important to Australia are going on in Bass Strait on the continental shelf. As I understand it. those licences depend on the interpretation of the words 'no right, title or interest is vested in a person other than Australia' and that those words would be wide enough to cover a right in the nature of an exploration licence. I suggest to the Minister that that may be a matter of doubt. A right to mine would be an 'interest' in the seabed, but a right to explore for minerals may not be. It is very important if a park is proclaimed that it not bring to an end existing rights under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. 
As I understand it, the Minister and the Government do not intend to proclaim as a park an area where there are outstanding permits or licences under the Petroleum (Submerged 
Lands) Act. If that is the intention and that is the interpretation that is given to clause 7, it means that clause 10 (2) would not operate until there were not extant any permits or licences. But whether a mining operation is on land or at sea, there seems to be no reason in logic to opt against private mining. Private mining on a reserve surely cannot be regarded as any worse than public mining. It is only a matter of imposing the restrictions that are necessary in order to ensure that the private operator carries on the operation in a way that is satisfactory to take account of the preservation of the park or the wildlife reserve. 
As the Opposition sees it, clause 10 (2) ought to be amended to leave open the option of the government of the day. This provision to some extent is an extension of the Government's philosophy that mining should be done either on behalf of the Government, in co-operation with the Government or by an authority of the Government. Of course we do not agree with that philosophy. But at the same time there is no reason why even this Government in certain circumstances should opt against private mining on national parks or wildlife reserves should it be decided to permit mining there. We press the amendment on the ground first of all that it leaves the options open but at the same time preserves for the Government of the day the right to say yea or nay to the operation and also preserves the right to decide whether it will be a public or private mining operation. I agree most wholeheartedly with what the honourable member for Gwydir said when he referred to the undesirability of having the Minister for Minerals and Energy- whether it is  Mr Connor  or somebody else- as the person who is to give approval. 
-I move: 
After sub-clause (2 ) of the proposed new clause, insert the following sub-clause: (2a) This section is not intended to exclude or limit the concurrent operation of any law of a State or Territory. 
I was glad to hear the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  say that the programs for the protection, conservation, management and control of wildlife would be implemented and organised in co-operation with each State concerned. Unfortunately the proposed new clause does not necessarily restrict itself in that way. A simple way to achieve the desired result would be to amend the clause to provide that 'the Director may in co-operation with the State formulate and implement', and leave it at that, thus restricting formulation and implementation by the Director in his own power to the Territories. So, the amendment moved by the Minister does not quite meet the situation, as we see it, vis-a-vis the States because, on the face of it, if this power is granted, it would enable the Director to formulate and implement a program without regard to the interests or the attitudes of the State concerned. Hopefully, that is not the intention of the Minister in his administration of this law. 
Each State should have its own program. In order to preserve the position we propose this amendment by inserting new sub-clause (2a). So if each State has a program of its own which it wants to formulate and implement it may do so and nothing in proposed new clause 19 would affect that program. The 2 provisions would be there. The Commonwealth law would operate if it was valid, and the State law would operate. Clearly enough it would be valid. There will be no question but that a State will have power to formulate and implement programs for the preservation of wildlife. That is the purpose of our amendment. Another way around the situation, of course, would be simply to express the intention of the Minister that programs which are to be implemented in a State will be done only in co-operation with the State. If at this stage the 
Minister is prepared to accept that other amendment, of course proposed new sub-clause (2a), as we suggest, will not be pressed. 
-This is possibly not the appropriate time to speak, but in my speech on the second reading I referred to the provisions of sub-clause (4) of clause 40 and the fact the warden was able to exercise such wide powers anywhere in Australia. The warden had power to arrest without warrant a person anywhere in Australia. In my speech on the second reading, I indicated that I thought these powers were too broad. On the other hand we have not moved an amendment. I understand that the Minister will take the matter up with the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy).  On that basis we in the Opposition do not propose to move an amendment to clause 40 or to clause 42 (2) or any other clause which has this aspect in it. I do not think there are any others, but should there be I would intend that all of them be referred to the Attorney-General. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 41. 
1 ) Where a court convicts a person of an offence against this Act, the court may order the forfeiture to Australia of any vehicle, vessel or article used or otherwise involved in the commission of the offence. 
A warden may seize any vehicle, vessel or article that he reasonably believes to have been used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence against this Act and may retain it until the expiration of a period of 60 days after the seizure or, if a prosecution for an offence against this Act in the commission of which it may ha ve been used or otherwise involved is instituted within that period, until the prosecution is terminated. 
The Director may authorize a vehicle, vessel or article seized under sub-section (2) to be released to its owner, or to the person from whose possession it was seized, either unconditionally or on such conditions as he thinks fit, including conditions as to the giving of security for payment of its value if it is forfeited. 
A vehicle, vessel or article forfeited under this section may be sold or otherwise disposed of as the Director thinks fit. 
I move: 
Omit the clause. ia? &gt; 
I have already given my reason for this amendment in my speech on the second reading, and I will not repeat it. I think the Minister understands the objection that we have to this broad power of regulation to implement treaties. I would only suggest to him, having in mind that this Bill has to get through the Senate, that he might take into account the possibility of putting in a schedule those existing treaties, to which Australia is either a signatory or which it has ratified, and which the Government would wish to implement through a clause such as this, so that specific power could be given consideration to them, but we should omit a broad regulation making power of this description. On that basis I would urge him to omit the clause at this stage and resubmit a provision which would implement this suggestion. 
-In my speech in the second reading debate I referred to the possibility that, in relation to areas of the high seas over which a national park is declared, there could be a breach of the convention on the high seas. Having said that, I assume that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  would be prepared to discuss that matter with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  and on that basis the Opposition has not proposed any further amendments to clause 70. If it was thought that there was some substance in what I have said, it would of course be necessary to give careful thought to another regulation making provision to deal with parks which cover areas of the high seas. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-This is a very short Bill but, of course, it is of the utmost importance to the people of King Island. As indicated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport (  Mr Charles  Jones ) the Bill provides financial assistance by way of a loan to Tasmania of $1,415,000 in order to purchase the vessel the 'Straitsman'. This vessel, of course, was involved in an unfortunate accident in the port of Melbourne early this year and is now in the course of repair. Therefore it will not be available to the service, I understand, until 1975. The provision of shipping between King Island, Tasmania and the Australian mainland has, of course, a long history. It has been a difficult problem and regrettably remains so under the administration of this Government. 
Tasmania is as much a part of Australia as any other State. I should not have to say that but sometimes Tasmanians feel they are not Australians. The Labor Party needs to be reminded of that. King Island is as much a part of Tasmania and of Australia as any other locality. The residents of King Island number over 3,000 and, of course, are as important as any other Australians. Our philosophy in the Liberal Party is committed to emphasising the needs of these people. Under the transport section of our policy we have indicated specifically the desirability and, indeed, the need to consider the special problems of populated islands, including King Island, Flinders Island, Kangaroo Island, Thursday Island and so on. King Island is an isolated community in a very real sense. It is an island off an island. It faces many of the problems that isolated communities suffer. Communications, in all their forms, are of paramount importance in the daily lives of its people. The communication needs encompass transport by sea and air and the media communications of television, radio and telephone. 
This Bill concerns the shipping link. Specifically, it makes available to the Tasmanian State Government $1.4 15m by way of loan repayable over 15 years at the long term bond rate of interest so that the shipping service to King Island can be maintained by the purchase of a vessel, in this case the 'Straitsman'. Previous consideration has been given to the provision of a service to King Island- it goes back at least to 1967. Of course, the 'Straitsman' was constructed and available for service in 1 972. Prior to that, under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, amounts were expended to provide berths at Grassy Island and at Stanley and for remodelling the Melbourne berth. These totalled, in all, about $2m of expenditure. 
The present Government's record in relation to King Island shipping is nothing of which to be proud. Prior to the 1972 elections the promises given were impressive. Since then the action delivered has been disappointing. Last year the Government introduced the King Island Harbour Agreement Bill, which made available a sum of $ 1.355m to assist in the construction of a sea port at Grassy, King Island. That Commonwealth assistance flowed directly from the commitment that was made by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. It was not a Labor Party initiative; in fact, there have been few Labor Party initiatives in King Island. King Islanders remember only too well the telegram that the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  sent prior to the 1972 election. It read as follows: 
Federal Parliamentary Party today approved the following policy decision. A Federal Labor Government will require the Australian National Line to assume responsibility for the King Island Shipping Service and. for this purpose, to negotiate with the owners of the ship Straitsman which was specifically designed for this purpose. 
The telegram was signed 'Ron Davies MHR'. On 15 March 1973  Senator Cavanagh,  representing in the Senate the Minister for Transport, said: 
The Australian National Line has been instructed to purchase the 'Straitsman '. I believe I said yesterday that the vessel would not be suitable and would not be engaged. It is to start the service to King Island when agreement has been reached on manning conditions, about which there was some trouble previously. The ANL has been asked to maintain separate accounts for the operation of this service because it is realised that it will not be a profitable one. When the * King Island' was in use the Government was subsidising the freight to the extent of $3.35 a ton and this cost approximately $150,000 a year. I can assure the honourable senator that the service will be operating in the future. 
Neither of those promises has been honoured. The telegram from the honourable member for Braddon said: 'A Federal Labor Government will require the Australian National Line to assume responsibility for the King Island shipping service'. The Minister representing the Minister for Transport said: 'The Australian National Line has been instructed to purchase the 'Straitsman'.' Neither of these things was done. The lack of enthusiasm of the Government to tackle the problems of King Island is further demonstrated by the failure of the Government to appoint any Labor representatives to the Senate Select Committee which was appointed on 3 May 1 973 to examine shipping services between King Island, Stanley and Melbourne. The Tasmanian Liberal Party senators were represented on the Committee. They were interested in King Island. Apparently the Tasmanian Labor Party senators were not interested in King Island. 
The conclusion contained in that Committee's report was that the 'Straitsman' would become a profitable operation after an established period and that this operation was worthy of support by the Commonwealth Government. At this stage, the 'Straitsman ' had been tied up at the wharf in Melbourne since 14 June 1972. The Australian 
Labor Party was reluctant to accept this even though it had initially promised to do so. The outcome 2 years later is that the Labor Party has now introduced this Bill which will, in fact, result in the Tasmanian State Government receiving assistance for the purchase of the 'Straitsman '. This is only a start; it needs to be followed up by assistance for its operation. The Opposition parties are disappointed that the form of assistance provided in this Bill is by way of a loan. If the Government were truly sincere in its written and spoken word prior to the 1972 election- it seemed to express a keenness to assist King Island and the State Government- a more suitable financing arrangement would have been at least a combination of loan and grant funds. Of course, interest charges on that loan will be added to and passed on in the transport costs. They will be borne by the residents of King Island. As I have said, the measures in this Bill represent only a small part of solving the shipping transport, communication and other problems that face the residents of King Island. 
Some of the problems the residents face apply throughout Australia. For example, I refer to the depressed state of the beef industry. At the end of last month the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden), Senator Rae  and  Senator Bessell  visited King Island. Unfortunately, due to the transport difficulties I was not able to accompany them but I hope to visit there soon. During this visit to King Island the Leader of the Opposition issued a detailed paper on interstate and intrastate transport policies for Tasmania that the Liberal and Country parties have adopted. Specifically in relation to King Island,  Mr Snedden  referred to the callous decision of the Labor Government to withdraw the subsidy on air services. It is pertinent to mention the withdrawal of air services in this context because this decision illustrates the Labor Government's lack of appreciation of the overall transport needs of the island. In addition to being abysmally slow in improving the shipping service,  Mr Charles  Jones, the Minister for Transport, is now in the course of ruining the air services. The King Island people have to rely now on a small twinengined plane for their flights to the mainland regardless of whether they are pensioners in ill health or school children trying to arrange excursions. The Minister's concluding statement in his second reading speech is hypocritical. He said: 
The Australian Government is concerned that adequate transport links to outlying communities should be maintained. 
If he really meant that, he would not have withdrawn the subsidy, nor would he be so complacent about the threatened closure of Devonport and Wynyard airports. The Minister concluded his second reading speech by saying: 
This loan to the Tasmanian Government recognises the needs of the people on King Island. 
Let me indicate to the Minister that this Bill in no way satisfies all their needs in shipping or in other areas. I give notice now that I will be taking other opportunities to raise in this House the problems King Island residents face as well as those of other Tasmanians. 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that there are large numbers of applications for authorisations and clearances under the Trade Practices Act before the Trade Practices Commission with which the Commission will be unable to deal for many months? Can the Minister confirm that many of these applications relate to matters which have generally been regarded as being in the public interest and could be the subject of general exemptions from the provisions of the Act, thus saving time and expense for the public and the Government? Does the Attorney-General recall that, notwithstanding the suggestion of the Opposition, the Government refused to include in the Act a general power to grant exemptions? Will the AttorneyGeneral undertake to investigate this matter and take steps to bring forward an amendment to the Act which will enable general exemptions to be made? 
-! wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  When I asked the Prime Minister this morning- politely I thought- to speak up because I was interested in what he was saying about Hobart and what the Government was saying it was going to do there, he suggested that I was appointed by my Leader,  Mr Snedden,  to assist him in relation to Tasmania. That is only a half truth. The fact is that I have been appointed as the Opposition spokesman in the House of Representatives in relation to Tasmania. I do not know whether the Prime Minister is aware of that; perhaps he now is aware of it for the first time. It in no way reflects on the senators who represent Tasmania. They give me considerable assistance in relation to Tasmania, for which I am very grateful. May I add that the fact that I come from Sydney no further inhibits me in my representation of Tasmania than the fact that the Prime Minister comes from Sydney inhibits him from representing the rest of this country. 
-This Bill is the subject of a motion for amendment. I do not believe that the House will prevent this Bill from going through to the Committee stage. I think the common sense of honourable members will enable this Bill to go to the Committee stage whatever happens. I find it very difficult to take one side or the other with regard to the amendment because I believe that there are some parts of this Bill that are basically good and there are others which should be changed. When one examines the object of this Bill in clause 43(a)- the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life- one might well expect the remainder of the Bill to carry those objects into effect. Those of us who approach the Bill will no doubt search through it to see whether this is so. There are many aspects of the Bill which clearly are aimed at achieving them- for instance, the provisions encouraging counselling and reconciliation. There were, of course, provisions for this in the existing Act. They were introduced in 1959 and have been effective to an extent. The provisions in this Bill go further and I believe they are better. 
It is proposed to establish separate courts in the States designed to deal with matrimonial matters with a minimum of formality and publicity and, broadly speaking, in a closed court. I believe that the introduction of closed courts is a good move forward in the area of family relations. It will afford great protection for people. Their private lives can be exposed without any other person present other than those who need to know. Then, of course, there are provisions for the welfare and custody of children and the general requirement that proper arrangements in all the circumstances have to be made for the welfare of the children before the decree nisi becomes absolute. The proponents of the Bill are to be congratulated on these and other like provisions. As I said, they represent in some respects, though not in all, advances over existing provisions in State and Commonwealth law. 
Significantly, if it becomes law, this Bill will represent the first broad encroachment of this Parliament into marital relations in the period between marriage and divorce. Previously, our basic concern has been with the formation and dissolution of marriage and ancillary questions. This Bill would cover the whole field and would enable it to be governed by one system of law. This is surely a highly commendable and desirable objective. The attempt to cover marital relations from the time of marriage to divorce may meet constitutional objections. If it does, it is to be hoped that complementary State legislation will be passed to enable the objective to be achieved satisfactorily and within a State family court system. 
In one important respect the Bill provides means for adopting what I believe to be the best means through which to exercise the jurisdiction created by it. We have already debated in this House the Superior Court Bill and we then became familiar with the reasons why federal jurisdiction could best be exercised by State courts. Similar considerations apply to jurisdiction over family matters. There is no reason why the whole jurisdiction within a State should not be exercised by family courts controlled and established by State law and assisted by Federal money. 
The Bill, however, does provide for the appointment of Federal family court judges, six in all and more if prescribed by regulation. These judges must be appointed for life. It will not be possible for constitutional reasons to appoint to the Federal family court the type of judge regarded as ideal for State family courts by section 41 of the Bill, namely, those who cannot hold office beyond the age of sixty-five. If the Bill becomes law it is to be hoped that steps to appoint these Federal judges will not be taken. They are unnecessary. 
The jurisdiction in the Territories can be exercised by the Territory judges. In the States, until the State family courts are set up, the jurisdiction can be exercised by State judges. Indeed, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his second reading speech, which is recorded at page 4322 of Hansard, said that. It would be divisive, inefficient, confusing to the public and a waste of public funds to set up a Federal family court with all the trappings of courts and court officers alongside a State family court in the same city, established in accordance with section 41 of this Act. It is suggested that the Federal family court judges will exercise appellate jurisdiction from State and Federal family courts. Appeals under the present Act go direct to the State full courts. Although there may be isolated instances of diversity between them in construing the present Act over 15 years, no case is made out which justifies the setting up of a special itinerant court at public expense to deal with family court appeals. If diversity existed in the State courts it could be cleared up by appeal to the High Court and the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth could take power to ensure that this could be done at his instance by removing diversity appeals into the High Court. 
It is to be hoped that the Government will not proceed to appoint judges to the Family Court of Australia but will instead get on with the task of establishing State family courts under section 4 1 . The importance of doing this will be more apparent when one bears in mind the constitutional problems which the Bill raises and to which I have already referred. So much,  Mr Speaker,  for the constitutional and jurisdictional matters. 
The focus of the debate on this Bill inevitably rests on clause 48. Two broad proposals are in the air at the moment. The first is that contained in clause 48 itself. The effect of that would bring in what is called 'no fault' and a general ground of whether the marriage has broken down irretrievably. The Bill then goes on to say that the only way in which it can be established that the marriage has broken down irretrievably is by having separation for a period of one year. The other proposal is that contained in paragraph (g) of the proposed amendment, which states that marriage should be dissolved only when a court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than 2 years. First of all, let us be clear that each of these proposals represents a significant advance on the present law. It is not true to say that there are progressives on one side and conservatives on the other. Indeed, each of these proposals is fully consistent with the elimination of fault 
Let us understand what no fault means. When we speak of no fault we mean that we shall not have a system whereby one party has to prove that the other party is at fault. That is the present system, and there is no need to continue it under either proposal, certainly not under the Bill and, I believe, certainly not under the proposal in paragraph (g) of the amendment. The other thing that I think should be clear is that the second proposal should not be regarded as a rejection of the principle behind the Bill. What is the principle? It is that in determining whether dissolution of marriage should take place you look at the marriage and ask: Has it broken down irretrievably? Or a lawyer in court, because he is getting paid for it, would say: Has the consortium vitae, the life of the marriage, come to an end. You do not approach it on the basis that one of the parties must be shown to be at fault. This is a perfectly humane and, if I may say so, Christian approach to the problem. That is what no fault means. It does not mean that you do not look at the conduct of the parties. 
In the area of matrimonial relations we delude ourselves if we think we can deal with the legal problems associated with them without considering conduct. For instance, clause 48 sub-section 3 of this Bill states: 
A decree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
If I may be pardoned for saying so, that is either window dressing or it means what it says. I am inclined to think, knowing a little about divorce courts, that it could be window dressing. Very seldom would there be any evidence before the court to determine that question, because nobody is obliged to bring it. But if that question were to be looked into you could not possibly determine it without looking at the conduct of the parties. Again, custody cannot be determined without looking at the conduct of the parties, nor can maintenance or property. Clause 75 ( 1) (m) relates to other matters and that would cover conduct. Clause 79 (4) (d), which relates to property would bring in all the matters that can be considered in relation to maintenance. So throughout this Bill there is brought into play a consideration of conduct. Do not let us delude ourselves into thinking that we will just have a healthy, clean look at the matrimonial relationship and not go into the question of what the parties have been up to. It is just not possible to do so. Clearly enough marriage may be irretrievably broken down for a number of reasons other than lack of cohabitation. Other honourable members have mentioned this before and referred to cruelty, adultery and other things. 
Let us look at what clause 48 does. In effect it says: divorce is a very unclean thing. It is a nasty business and we will not look at what is really worrying you or what is really bringing the marriage to an end. We will play a little game. We will have a charade. The charade is that parties must live apart for 12 months. If they do that and go along to the judge and say that they have lived apart for 12 months he will give them a divorce. It does not matter whether the real circumstance that caused it is cruelty, attempted murder, adultery, habitual drunkenness or some other form of what we have called matrimonial misconduct but what does not have to be called that any longer. We have to engage in this charade to get away from the nasty aspects of divorce. Matrimonial relationships and the breaking up of them are naturally unpleasant things. It is no good running away from the reality of the situation. What this Bill does, I believe, is to introduce the fiction, the charade. It does not get down to the reality of the position. How unreal and unjust it is to tell somebody: Yes, it has been cruelty that has brought it about, but you must be separate for a year before we will give you a divorce '. 
Let us consider these cases taken from the type of conduct referred to in the present law. Let us imagine the position of a woman who goes to a solicitor and says: 'He has committed adultery and I have proof', and whose solicitor says: 'I am sorry, lady, but you cannot have a divorce. You have to be away from him for a year', who then says to the soliCitor. 'I have been putting up with his conduct for 10 years and he has been cruel. He bashes me once a week. He comes home drunk', and whose solicitor replies: 'I am sorry, lady, but you have to be away from him for one year'. One could go right through such situations. She could say: 'He attempted to murder me and has been convicted for it and is in Long Bay'. The solicitor would still have to say: 'I am sorry, lady, but under the law you will have to go away and be separated from him for one year'. How unjust that really is. One has only to go through other cases to show that it is not only unreal but also unjust. 
Of course the marriage has irretrievably broken down when one finds adultery. These are not grounds that have been dreamt up by some celibate cleric in the middle ages. They are not grounds that have been thought up by the Church. They are things that have come out of the matrimonial relationships through the history of time and they are still the types of conduct that break up a marriage, sever the marital relationship and break down the marriage irretrievably. To bring in a Bill that adopts as the ground for causing the divorce something that is artificial and unreal is, I suggest, not doing justice and is sure to cause harm. 
If this Bill becomes law it will mean that existing rights will be defeated. Some members of the House often talk about the preservation of property rights. An examination of section 8c of the Acts Interpretation Act will reveal that if an Act of Parliament is repealed the existing rights are maintained, but for some reason that will not be the case under this Bill. Under this BM they will not be maintained; they Will be destroyed. A man or woman who, at the time this Bill becomes law, has suffered injustice for 10 years, for instance, will, immediately it becomes law, lose any rights he or she has at present because he or she has not taken out a petition having been concerned to maintain the marital relationship. We are concerned about preserving human rights, yet I believe that we are going to see a direct injustice in this provision. Clause 48 is unreal and unjust. For those reasons I reject it. It is so because it fails to carry out a principle upon which the Bill is based. 
One cannot avoid the consideration of the unfortunate behaviour of spouses and at the same time do justice. In the middle ages there were developed in England fictions which the law adopted and there were famous people called John Doe' and 'Richard Roe' who appeared in most property actions. In the 19th century these John Doe' versus 'Richard Roe' actions were discontinued and the forms of action died. The Bill, in section 48, contains a form of action in the nature of a charade. It is unreal, it is a fiction. It is saying to people: 'The marriage has broken down for some other reason, but we are going to make you perform a little play, a little charade, and then we will give you a divorce '. I suggest, if I may, that this Bill, in clause 48, could be suitably amended in this way: I am happy with subclause (1). I suggest that sub-clause (2) could read as follows 
Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that- 
having regard to the behaviour of the parties the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably; 
the parries separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 24 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage. 
My proposed sub-clause (3) would read: 
The court shall not grant a decree based on section 48 (2) (a) where the only behaviour relied upon is lack of cohabitation. 
I would leave in sub-clause (3) which appears in the BUI. I believe that if that clause were adopted there would be a general ground of irretrievable breakdown that could meet the injustice to which I and previous speakers have referred. It would also give respect to the institution of the family to which clause 43 refers. I do not believe that we can do that by adopting simply one year's separation. I know that it is a qualitative and subjective judgment that each of us must make on this matter, but I do not feel that the provision of one year's separation does sufficient justice to the institution of marriage. I believe that 2 years is a more appropriate period to adopt. If I must be logical about the matter I WU say to honourable members quite honestly that I cannot be logical, but I feel that I owe this attitude to the institution of marriage. It is not enough to say that one can show that in many cases the marriage has broken down within that period. One must show respect for the institution. I believe that this can only be done by adopting a period of 2 years. Apart from that, a party who had an immediate ground for relief could go to the court, get his or her divorce and thereby be adequately protected. 
-The Opposition does not wish to oppose this Bill. 
Indeed, it regards it as one that ought to have been passed in July last year. Unfortunately it was not because, I regret to say, of the pique of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  due to the fact that at the time we got ourselves embroiled in a situation relating to parliamentary salaries and judges' remuneration became involved. It is to be hoped that that will not happen again. There have been 2 unsatisfactory aspects concerning judges ' remuneration in recent years. It is helpful to go back over the salaries of justices of the High Court since 1969. On 14 June 1969 the salary of the Chief Justice of the High Court was altered from $24,000 a year to $30,000 a year and the salary of justices of the High Court from $2 1 ,000 to $27,000 a year. On 1 April 1973 the salary of the Chief Justice was altered from $30,000 to $39,000 per annum. On the same date the salary of justices was altered from $27,000 to $35,300. Under this measure the Chief Justice 's salary will be altered from $39,000 to $45,000 and the salary of justices from from $35,000 to $41,000 a year. 
Some members of the House and some members of the public may well feel that a salary of $45,000 is a very large salary. These salaries, of course, are kept at this sort of level in order to attract the right type of person to the Bench. It is so not only in respect of these salaries but also the salaries of other judges at the Federal level and in the State courts. Those who are appointed to the High Court from the Bar should be persons who are leaders of the Bar. A person at the Bar these days who is at the height of his capacities earns in excess of $ 100,000 a year. This is the sort of person who has to be attracted to come on to the Bench. I do not think that is widely known either to honourable members or to the public. A member of the Bar, of course, is dependent on his own brain power. If he has to retire from the Bar due to illness, there is no superannuation to look after him. Not all members of the Bar, of course, earn that amount, but the fact is that those who would be attracted to the High Court, who are in full flight, would be receiving an income in the 6-figure bracket. We should not think therefore that the figures under discussion are in any way excessive. They are not. They have to be fixed at a figure to attract the right sort of expertise. 
In the catalogue of events that I gave 2 unsatisfactory features emerge and one hopes that they will not occur again. The first one is this: At 14 June 1969 the salary of a High Court justice was $21,000 a year. At that time officers such as the Solicitor-General and the heads of departments were receiving $22,500 a year. In other words, the salary of a High Court justice was less than that of a departmental head. That was not a good feature of the way in which judicial salaries were fixed. The reason, of course, was an attempt was made to keep the two sets of salaries separate and judges' salaries fell behind the salaries of departmental heads. That sort of thing should not happen again. 
In 1973 the Remuneration Tribunals Act was passed following the report of  Mr Justice  Kerr, which was delivered towards the end of 1971. The purpose of the  Act  was to put the salaries not only of members of Parliament but also of judges and others outside the political arena. Under the Constitution the salaries of judges have to be fixed by this Parliament. The significant point to which I refer is that the whole purpose of the Renumeration Tribunals Act was to place the fixing of judges' salaries outside the political arena and in a situation where once a recommendation came in, it would be followed. 
I have referred to the events of Last July already. They represent another unsatisfactory feature in relation to judges salaries. It is to be hoped that in the future when a report comes in immediate action will be taken by the Government of the day, whichever that governmernt might be, to fix the salaries by law as is required by the Constitution and in accordance with the recommenation made by the Tribunal. The Opposition does not oppose this measure. I repeat that it should have been put through this Parliament in July last year. The Opposition wishes to assist in the speedy passage of this legislation. 
-The Opposition, of course, does not oppose this Bill but that does not indicate that we are content with the attitude and the conduct of the Government since the Tasman Bridge disaster on 5 January. In taking this attitude the Opposition believes that it reflects the views of the people of Hobart. There is increasing dissatisfaction in that city with the action of the State Labor Government and the Federal Government as to what is to be done in relation to this bridge. It is sad that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  who spoke earlier on this Bill, did not express the views of the people of Hobart which are quite clear and have been clearly stated through the press, and I am sure on the ferry trips across the Derwent River. I would suggest that the apologia that he indulged in during the debate today for the State Labor Government and the Federal Government does him little credit and will do him little good in his electorate. 
The people of Hobart want something to be done about the Tasman Bridge. Day after day in recent weeks they have been asking for something to be done. There was, of course, as is always the case with a great tragedy, an initial burst of activity. On 5 January the S.S. 'Lake Illawarra' of the Australian National Line collided with the piers of he Tasman Bridge causing 3 concrete spans to collapse into the Derwent and the unfortunate death of 12 people. On 8 January the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  announced a full marine court of inquiry after a special preliminary report from the special investigator, Captain Allan Pearson. The inquiry could apportion blame and fault for any'failure to act rightly or wrongly' and to assess all factors contributing to the accident. That inquiry has since taken place. The Government took very quick action on 8 January to set up yet another commission of inquiry. I am not suggesting that this action should not have been taken. Of course it should have been taken. But it was easy for the Government to take this step in its initial burst of activity. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during his visit to Europe was quick to say on 6 January: 
I expect there will be an inquiry into how such a ludicrous happening took place. It is beyond my imagination how any competent person could steer a ship into the pylons of a bridge. But I have to restrain myself, because I would expect the person responsible for such an act would find himself before a criminal jury. 
On 8 January the Prime Minister was forced to apologise. Apart from the inquiry that has been conducted and the initial bursts of activity it has been almost impossible to get a definite statement about what the Commonwealth and Tasmanian governments are going to do or when something will happen. It is very easy to make plans. It is another thing to do something about those plans. 
I acknowledge, of course, quite freely that an interim commission has been established. We do have this legislation which is now before us. But the people of Hobart, particularly those who live on the eastern shore, want to know desperately when something urgent is to be done. When are they to see the plan to rebuild the existing Tasman Bridge? When are they to see a plan to construct a temporary or permanent second crossing that has been in the offing for several years? When is there to be a plan to salvage the 'Lake Illawarra'?  Sir John  Williams, the former  Chairman  of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, is reported in the Melbourne 'Age' of 8 January as having said that any plan to salvage the 'Lake Illawarra' would be 'a very doubtful .. . and expensive operation'. 
The Prime Minister in his second reading speech has indicated that the Australian Government has undertaken to meet the costs of the Tasmanian Government of the full amount of expenditure incurred by it and its authorities as a result of the disaster. One might ask how far those words go. What sort of compensation and what sort of damage do they cover? Later in my speech I hope to indicate to honourable members the extent of the suffering and damage that have been incurred by the people of Hobart. It is a great pity that the Prime Minister, despite his general statements, did not take the opportunity to affirm a government commitment clearly in this House to build a second bridge. Statements have been made but why did he not say something in a firm and committed way in his second reading speech in this House? 
There are a number of points to be taken into account in regard to this legislation. Firstly, the 'Lake Illawarra' was an Australian National 
Line vessel and the Commonwealth naturally has an indirect, or indeed a very direct, responsibility for the accident through that body. There is no question of there not being Commonwealth responsibility through that body. The Tasmanian Government, of course, shares a good deal of the blame because of the unsuitable design of the Tasman Bridge in the first place. 
The honourable member says: 'What rubbish'. He knows quite well that in 1958  Mr P.  Jone, a Tasmanian Hydro-electric Commission engineer, indicated the clear possibility of there being an accident leading to the bridge falling in the way it did, an accident which could have been overcome by the construction of a suspension bridge which perhaps would not have cost greatly more than the amount that was expended on the existing bridge. 
Recently an ex-Premier of Tasmania said that the Tasmanian Government was virtually bankrupt and that the Federal Government would have to pay most of the cost of the emergency transportation services, rebuilding the bridge and implementing road construction programs and ferry services. No clear statement is available about who will maintain and finance the ancillary services necessitated by the division of Hobart isolating over 40 000 residents on the eastern shore. These are residents whom the honourable member for Franklin has been elected to represent in this House. For instance, who is to maintain and pay for the emergency health services? All one finds on the eastern shore at the moment is virtually first aid posts. Who will pay for the child care facilities? Who will pay for the additional education facilities? What is now urgently required is a plan of action embracing all the communication links between the eastern and western shores of Hobart . 
Even though the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Tasmanian Premier announced an agreement to set up a joint commission, the Joint Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission, to superintend and direct the salvage and rebuilding operations, there is little evidence of subsequent action. All this has occurred despite the uncoordinated involvement of numerous Federal Ministers.  Senator Wheeldon  is looking after compensation. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  announced the marine inquiry. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  in addition to other pledges, committed the Government to the financing of a second Hobart bridge. He said on 24 January 1975: 
There are no barriers as far as finance is concerned. 
The Attorney-General, then  Senator Murphy,  was asked to arrange legal aid for the families of crewmen on 9 January 1975. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  was appointed the coordinator of Federal assistance to Tasmania.  Mr Speaker,  the question I ask is: When is something going to happen? As in the case of most great tragedies, there was tremendous immediate concern. But the aftermath is delay and seeming indifference. We have seen this before. It looks as though it will happen again. This is what the people of Hobart generally are feeling at the moment. 
It is difficult to imagine the effect that this tragedy has had in economic and social ways and on the individual lives of the people of Hobart, particularly those who live on the eastern shore, although as a survey will indicate it is certainly not confined to those people on the eastern shore. It is not an exaggeration to say that the whole pattern of life has changed, and changed dramatically. The cost in economic and human terms is tremendous. For instance, it has been estimated by the Tasman Bridge Compensation Committee that there will be an economic loss of $26m a year. There will be an increase in travelling costs. The extra ferry fares paid by the people on the eastern shore and others will amount to $1,260,000 per annum. As a result of the accident, people who travel by motor car between the eastern shore and the western shore now have to travel 50 miles. The additional cost in this respect is estimated at $4,250,000 per annum. The time loss incurred by people because of the disaster is estimated at 4 500 000 man-hours per annum and the total cost of time lost is estimated at $ 1 7,392,000 
Of course, there are other costs. They include additional service costs, increased capital purchases and the loss of property values on the eastern shore. The annual cost to 39 eastern shore companies is estimated to be $586,000 per annum. There are the costs which are incurred in regard to social activities. Obviously, people who want to go to social engagements on either the eastern shore or the western shore suffer inconvenience or have the problem of not being able to attend those engagements because it takes some 2 hours to travel to them. And what of the non-economic cost- those things which can never be measured but which people suffer in terms of inconvenience? This is a matter of urgency. It is a matter about which the governments which have the responsibility ought to be doing something. The room occupancy rate of hotels on the eastern shore has fallen by 70 per cent and their loss on accommodation is $5,000 a week. The airlines estimate that their combined loss is $250,000 per annum. The bus fare from the airport has increased from 80c to $1.50. Twenty extra staff have had to be employed. Previously, the airline buses travelled 1200 miles a week; now they travel 5500 miles a week. Indeed, I am told that some people even drive to Launceston to catch an aeroplane rather than go to the Hobart Airport. Cargo losses incurred by Ansett Airlines of Australia are estimated at $1,000 a week and the total loss to that airline in cargo and in relation to other business as at 5 April 1975 was approximately $70,000. The oil industry in Hobart estimates its loss at approximately $600,000 per annum. 
I mention these figures not in an endeavour to make people feel sorry for large companies but because these costs inevitably find their way into the economic system and the people who will pay will be the consumers. Ultimately in terms of economic loss there is a tremendous effect of this somewhat simple accident. It will affect in a dramatic way the whole lifestyle of the people of Hobart. That is not the end of the matter. It is not just the effect of the accident on people's lives. Looking ahead and also looking at what has already happened, one finds great signs of bureaucratic stagnation coming forth. On 8 April Commissioner Knight of the Joint Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission said: 
I can give no indication when decisions will be made but we are working on it. 
I do not intend that to be a criticism of the Commissioner, but that is what he said. A ferry being brought from Sydney to be added to those already in service in Hobart is now in trouble at Wollongong. 
Where is the Bailey bridge that was supposed to supply a temporary service across the Derwent River? Let me concede that the approaches for that temporary bridge are under construction and that work has been going ahead. But let me ask the question: Where is the Bailey bridge? Let me ask it of the Minister for Defence who is at the table. Have we no Bailey bridges in our defence force? What has happened to the Bailey bridges? Why is there not one in Hobart already? If there is not one there, when will it appear? The suggestion was that we would have it by the middle of April. As I understand the position, it is not there now. 
-I have been there quite recently- recently enough to know whether the 
Bailey bridge is there. The Minister will be able to tell us - 
-I was there a month ago, but I have facts and know circumstances which indicate quite clearly what the Government has been up to and its inactivity. If the Minister thinks that by asking that question he can avoid his responsibility as co-ordinator of Federal assistance, he has another think coming. The Minister for Defence, who has control over these Bailey bridges and our up to date defence force, should have sent the Bailey bridge down there before the middle of April to lessen the inconvenience that the people of Hobart are suffering. We know that the Bailey bridge will not reduce the inconvenience greatly, but at least it will be of some assistance to these people. 
It is said that there are 15 government committees already involved in this matter. I am referring now to the bureaucratic stagnation that we seem to be facing. There was at first indecision as to whether private enterprise would be used on the bridge. Apparently the Tasmanian Government thought that it could undertake the task. Subsequently it decided that it ought to approach a firm such as John Holland (Constructions) Pty Ltd. Tenders for the salvage operation closed on 7 March 1975. Yet to date no announcement has been made of an acceptance of a tender. The Government Engineer has said that it could take  4(A  years to repair the bridge. At least the Opposition in the Tasmanian Parliament has been active in trying to find a constructive way in which to deal with this problem, despite the attack which the honourable member for Franklin made on that State Opposition. It has suggested that it would be possible, at a cost of $lm, to put an aluminium span across this bridge and in the process for a temporary period overcome the problem with 3 lanes of traffic. Then, the job of repairing the bridge could be proceeded with at a later stage. These are just signs of things that are happening. Proposals are being ignored. There are increasing signs of bureaucratic stagnation appearing. Apparently there cannot be a decision whether to salvage first or to repair later. It seems that there cannot even be a decision whether to get the pollution out of the river and then to salvage later. All these questions are left undecided. Until they are decided there can be no action. Almost 4 months have passed yet no decision has been made. 
-I have just made a suggestion, which the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania made, about building an aluminium bridge. That sounds as if it might be a feeble structure but at least the suggestion has the support of considerable engineering expertise and it is something that ought to be considered. That is a constructive suggestion. Another suggestion I have already made is that the Government might get a Bailey bridge there as soon as it can, and also get on with the job of deciding where the second bridge will go. Apparently the Federal Government is interested in a second bridge. For 2 years there have been engineering surveys, but still people cannot determine where the second bridge will go. Now the Government has brought out another expert from the United States. The Government in this Parliament is renowned for bringing experts from the United States. It seems to want to attack the United States in other respects but when the time comes to get some expertise it is very quick to look to the United States. In relation to the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill the Government had to bring across an expert as it did in relation to the Trade Practices Bill. 
Apparently the Tasmanian Government has caught the same disease becuase it has brought out from the United States a  Mr Voorhees  to advise where the second bridge should go. Does the Government mean to say that this country does not have sufficient expertise to determine where the second bridge across the Derwent River should go, and cannot do it within 2 years? This is the sort of thing we are criticising. This is the sort of bureaucratic stagnation that is appearing. When will this be decided? When will this be done? 
-We are not building a doll's house. We are building another bridge. If the Government had built the first bridge properly this probably would not have happened. If the Government had taken notice of engineering advice which it did not do, this would not have happened. I also want to know: Where is the Government's commitment to the second bridge? Strangely enough, it was the Prime Minister who came into this House and delivered the second reading speech. Why was it not the Minister for Transport? I suppose it is because this Bill relates to an agreement with the Premier of 
Tasmania. But I pass that by. Where was the commitment in the second reading speech to a second bridge? Is this Government committed to it? If so, why does it not say so in this House where it is important that such commitments be made? 
The question which is being asked in Hobart is this: When will the second bridge be built? When will something happen? When will the inconvenience suffered by the people of Hobart be allayed? When will this endless journey of 50 miles a day cease? It is all right for honourable members on the Government side, some of whom do not live near Hobart, to criticise. But no doubt they have been on the ferry as I have. I know what it means to queue up just as they do but I do not know what it means to do that every day of the week. I do not know what it means to sit there in the cold. I do not know what it means to sit on ferries which some people allege are unsafe. I do not know that but some honourable members opposite do but they will not come into this House and stand up for the people they represent. I say to them: Do not berate me because I come from another place to do it. I tell them that I will speak until they stand up in this place and support the people they represent. I say to honourable members opposite: 'Do not talk to me about the Government of Tasmania'. Why is it that we find in this Bill another bureaucratic piece of stagnation? Why does not this Government say to the Government of Tasmania: 'Look, you go ahead and repair the bridge. We do not want to be nosey Parkers in this matter'. Why does not the Government say that? The fact is that here we have another piece of bureaucratic stagnation. Paragraph 5 of the Schedule to the Bill states: 
The Commission shall be empowered to exercise and may perform all or any of the functions of superintending, coordinating, directing, managing and executing the planning and performance of any work associated with- 
the removal or disposition of the hull . . . 
satisfying or complying with any requirements of the Australian Minister for Transport, the Australian Department of Transport or the Hobart Marine Board regarding removal and disposition of the wreckage, remnants and debris. 
What sort of power or function is that to give to a commission which the Government wants to do a job quickly and efficiently? First of all, it has to go to the Australian Minister for Transport and then go to the Australian Department of Transport. One can understand it going to the Hobart Marine Board, but why does not this Government entrust the work to the Government of Tasmania? Has it no faith in the Government of Tasmania? Why does it not say: 'We will provide the funds to you if you satisfy us that this is reasonable expenditure within the terms of reference which we agree upon with you'. Why does the commission continually have to come back to the Australian Minister for Transport and to the Australian Department? We are facing another bureaucratic jungle. Quite frankly, the people of Hobart will not be served by this agreement. However, as I said in the beginning we do not oppose it. Naturally, we do not oppose it because it is the Government's option. It is for the Government to get on with this job. If it chooses to do it in a clumsy way by trying to harness another government to its minute decisions and criteria, that is the Government's business. But as the Government does this we will criticise it in this place. We will stand up for the people of Hobart. We will see that they are represented in this place. We will see that the Labor Government in Tasmania, if it lasts much longer, meets its responsibilities through this agreement to the people of Tasmania. 
I wish to draw attention to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  said about reports by the Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission back to the Commonwealth and State Parliaments. One way of dealing with that, of course, would be to make an amendment to the Bill. On the other hand the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  may be prepared to indicate that he will take up this matter with the Tasmanian Government through the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  with a view to asking the Commission either by - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-I  interrupt the honourable member to ask whether he is talking about clause 4 or clause 5 of the Bill? 
-I am dealing with clause 4 of the Bill,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  which relates to the approval of the agreement. What the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party had to say, of course, related to paragraph 9 of the agreement, which provides that the Commission shall report at not less than quarterly intervals. The suggestion he made, and I naturally agree with him, was that he felt it was significant that there ought to be a report to this Parliament and, no doubt, to the Tasmanian Parliament on an annual basis on what the Commission has done. That is a very reasonable suggestion. We are not necessarily suggesting that perhaps the agreement ought to be amended. This is something that ought to be able to be facilitated between the 2 Governments. Perhaps the Minister may be prepared to indicate that he would be able to achieve that result without any amendment being put forward either here or in the other place. 
I do not wish to detain the House for very long, but this is a most important Bill. Some honourable members have said that we have been talking about provisions that are hot in the Bill and that, therefore, what we have been saying is irrelevant. Sometimes the most relevant provisions in relation to a Bill are those that are not in it. Quite frankly, the question of privacy in Australia today is an extremely significant one. It is extremely significant in the area of government in the Commonwealth. Day by day in this Parliament the bureaucratic process is being expanded. More public servants are being appointed. More powers are being given to members of the Public Service to investigate, to make inquiries and to report. More powers are being given to commissions day by day, week by week and month by month. 
When we look at one particular measure, it may not seem much. But what does one find if one goes back over the statutes of the past 2 years? The Labor Government prides itself on the fact that the statutes for 1973 and 1974 are the largest in size for many years, perhaps since 1967 at least. Although the Labor Government prides itself in that respect, the fact is that it has added to the statutes tremendous areas of investigation and decision making. The bureaucracy in this country is growing. Unless we in our own way in this Parliament start to think very seriously about the effect that this is having on the daily lives of Australians, we are adding problem after problem for the man in the street. 
One of the areas in which one notices this problem is the area of information statistics. Obviously, no reasonable person would rise to attack the provisions of this Bill insofar as they seek to provide for an efficient means of obtaining statistics. I do not believe that anybody has done that today. The need for statistics is obvious. The need apparently for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to have some statistics appeared in August or September of last year. We do not want him any longer to have any excuse for not having statistics about the economy. So, it is good for the Government to have proper statistics. The problem is the intrusion into the lives of the ordinary people. The question of privacy has been before this Government for more than 2 years. It has been investigated by this Government over that period. Although the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  says- of course I would readily accept his assurance- that a Bill is about to come forward on this matter, we have not yet seen it and we do not know how long it will be before it does appear. We do not know whether it will be presented in a few weeks time or a few months time. But the time has come for Australian citizens to be protected. 
In a very short way, I wish to illustrate this point. The Special Minister of State, who is at the table, may have had some interest in this matter, although perhaps only indirectly, as I think he ceased to be Postmaster-General in May of last year. In December 1974 there was a telephone usage survey. It was conducted on behalf of the Australian Post Office by the University of New South Wales. Survey forms were issued to some people in my electorate. I readily concede that it was done by a sub-contractor to the Government. I also concede that those who received the survey forms were not forced to answer the questions. It was a telephone usage survey- let me stress that- and the questions start with a great degree of relevance. For instance, the question is asked: 
If you consider that the service is NOT most efficient, would you please describe the problems you have encountered with the telephone service? 
The questions continue: 
Which of these 2 statements is CLOSER to how YOU feel? 
I make a telephone call whenever I feel the need  . . OR . . . 
Except for dire emergencies a telephone call after 9 pm is an intrusion. 
As the questions continue they become less relevant. For instance: 
Generally speaking, I find that when it comes to WRITING a BUSINESS letter I . . . 
Put it off as long as possible 
Delay longer than I would if telephoning about my business 
Don't hesitate at all. 
Those questions are all relevant, perhaps marginally relevant, to a search for statistics in relation to telephone usage. 
Then we come to this statement: 
The following are some questions which will help us classify our answers more meaningfully. Please circle a 'Yes' or No' figure to ALL questions. If you are not definitely sure, record your answer for how you mostly feel. 
Let me illustrate the sorts of questions that follow. Really- I believe that the Minister at the table will agree with me- they are extraordinary. Here are some examples: 
Do you like to mix socially with people? 
Do you find it difficult to 'let your hair down' even at a lively party? 
Well, I do! The questions continue: 
Would you rate yourself as a lively personality? 
If we wanted to inflate further the ego of the Prime Minister we could ask him those questions and get him to answer 'Yes'. Here is another one for the Prime Minister: 
Do you ' fly off the handle ' when you are angry? 
Here is another question: 
Do you appear calm when people around you are excited? 
That is appropriate to the Minister at the table. These further questions are asked: 
Do you conceal your disappointments? 
Do you conceal your failures?' might be more appropriate to the Government- 
Are you calm in an emergency? 
Do you sometimes have frequent ups and downs in mood, either with or without apparent cause? 
Are you frequently 'lost in thought' even when supposed to be taking part in a conversation? 
One does not need to say much more in order to indicate the danger, the stupidity and the intrusion into privacy of a questionnaire such as that. 
Honourable members opposite wonder why we take the point and why we are so concerned about the question of privacy. That such questions should be asked is laughable. But those questions are being asked and, quite frankly, they are being paid for by this Government. That is a very serious matter. I turn to the next question, which is: 
Which of these activities do you FREQUENTLY OR SOMETIMES enjoy? (Please circle 'yes' or 'no' for ALL activities) 
Let me list a few: 
Golf 
Tennis 
Pottery/Macrame/Needlework 
That last is a good one for the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)- 
Water skiing 
Yoga 
And so on through a long list of activities. What have they to do with telephone usage? The survey ends with this question: 
Roughly how many hours would you spend on the telephone, here at home, in an average week? 
It goes on to ask: 
How many of these hours would be spent talking to anyone concerning any of the clubs or organisations you belong to? 
Those examples are enough, so far as I am concerned, to make the point I wish to make; that is, that the question of privacy has 2 aspects. The first aspect is that when we obtain information from the public it should be retained in a confidential state. The confidential information of people should not be disclosed. I do not apprehend that I have any difficulty with the acceptance of that proposition by the Minister at the table. 
The other aspect tends to be much more significant these days because I think we understand the need to retain confidence in relation to information and I do not think government tends to transgress, although with the volume of questions the likehood will be greater. That other aspect is the question-asking aspect of privacy, the intrusion into people's lives- not only the inconvenience of answering questions but the degree to which a person is questioned about private matters in terms of his own private life. I would suggest that if this Bill relating to privacy is on the table of the Parliamentary Counsel, the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  who is in the chamber at the moment, should immediately take an interest in it and bring it before this 
House as soon as he can. This is an urgent question and it ought to be before the Parliament, we ought to be debating it and we ought to deal with it as soon as possible. 
-The first thing I want to note is the absence of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  from this debate. We are discussing legislation which relates to the fourth body which was appointed by the Constitution in imperative terms. In those circumstances one would have thought that a Bill of this kind would have been introduced by the Prime Minister and that he would have been here to explain why it is necessary that this country should have such a body at this time. He is notably absent from the debate. May I say that it is a regrettable absence for the Prime Minister not to lend his debate to this Bill. 
The Opposition has indicated that it does not at this stage see the necessity for a body such as this to be set up by this Parliament in such great haste. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  said that there are great problems in relation to interstate transport. Of course, anybody who has had anything to do with government would know that it is open to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  at any time to bring to the attention of his Cabinet or of the Parliament matters or practices which are offensive and which need legislation to correct them. There is no reason why from day to day or from month to month matters of this description should not be brought before the Parliament for correction if they exist. If anybody should get to know of such practices, that person would be the Minister. 
Many suggestions have been made about this body over the years but none of them, apart from the original body, actually went as far as does this Bill. If one goes back to the debates and to the evidence that was given before the Royal Commission on the Constitution in 1927 one will find that the emphasis there was on the investigatory nature of the Inter-state Commission.  Sir Robert  Garran, the then Solicitor-General said: 
Amongst others, there is the function of acting as a Royal Commission to investigate matters- the principal function which the Commission actually exercised. I think that most of its time was spent in investigating matters relating to trade and so forth, which were referred to it by the Commonwealth Government. 
That is a description of the Inter-State Commission as it existed in the years from 1912 to approximately 1920.  Mr Nicholas,  the counsel assisting the Commission, said: ... the powers of the Commission, if properly exercised, might be made great instruments in carrying out the designs and desires of Parliament with reference to the maintenance and promotion of trade and commerce and commercial relations between the States and with other countries. The Commission would have authority, not only to prevent railway preferences and discriminations, but also  to  prevent any body or any combination of persons resorting to methods or expedients that might amount to restraint or obstruction of trade. The Commission would have absolute power to ascertain whether private individuals or corporations had entered into any agreement by which they might monopolise trade. The Commission would have full authority to apply the searchlights of inquiry to the inner workings of alleged trusts and combines. 
Of course it does not take long to consider that statement and to realise that it is referring to functions which are now basically vested in the Trade Practices Commission. Honourable members have already referred to the report of the Constitutional Review Committee of 1959. In that document the purpose of the Commission is set out as follows: 
The Committee believes that the Commission would be an appropriate authority to inquire and report to the Parliament whether a restrictive trade practice is contrary to the public interest. 
Those suggestions in those references were to a body of an investigatory nature. It is not good enough to introduce a Bill into this House simply because it is part of the platform of the Labor Party to have a commission of this description. There has to be a good, sound, and viable reason for setting it up. 
When one considers the terms of the Bill, one finds that the powers of the Commission go far beyond powers of investigation. The Commission is given great status. Its  President  is to have the same rank, status and precedence as a justice of the High Court of Australia. One would wonder why he should have that status. It is a matter for speculation whether the Government hopes to appoint somebody who at the end of 7 years would be an embarrassment to a later government which would then have to appoint him to the High Court to get rid of him. But at the moment I cannot see why clause 7 has any justification whatsoever. I cannot see why it is necessary to give such a person such status. 
Clauses 9 and 10 of the Bill simply repeat in substance the provisions of section 102 of the Constitution but, of course, they emphasise what appears to have been the purpose of the InterState Commission when it was contemplated in the Constitution- basically, to deal with interstate transport in relation to railways. Clause 1 1 is a very broad provision. It reads: 
The terms and conditions on which a service by way of or in relation to interstate transport is provided shall be reasonable and just. 
Every term and every condition of interstate transport can be laid down by this body on the broad criteria of reasonableness and justice. I will come back to that point later. Clause 13 of the Bill reads: 
The regulations may authorise the Commission, either generally or otherwise as provided by the regulations, to exercise all or any of the powers ... of any authority or tribunal under any law of Australia made under the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce. 
The bodies referred to in this clause would include not only those which exercise power in relation to interstate trade and commerce but also those with power in relation to corporations because, so far as a law under the corporations power extends into trade and commerce, it is a law of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce. So clause 13 will enable the Commission, under regulations, to extend its activities into bodies such as the Trade Practices Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Industries Assistance Commission and other similar bodies. These commissions which have already been established by this Government are to have a Big Brother in the form of the Interstate Commission looking over their shoulder in order to inquire into these matters, to consider them and to report on them. In clause 13 of the Bill the potential to do that is extremely wide. 
Clause 14 gives wide powers of investigation. Clause 14 ( 1 ) by itself might well be justified in terms of an existing need to know what is going on in relation to interstate trade and commerce. It may well be that there are areas that could stand investigation, and it may well be that there is a need for a body such as an interstate commission which could perform such a task and report to this Parliament so that this Parliament could decide whether there was a need to introduce legislation for the purpose. The powers of investigation, however, go far beyond that. Sub-clause (6) enables the Minister to extend the powers of inquiry. One finds in sub-clause (10) that the Commission is able to hold an investigation into the terms and conditions on which services by way of or in relation to interstate transport are provided, and that where the Commission has held such an investigation the recommendations that may be made by the Commission in its report should include recommendations specifying the terms and conditions that the Commission adjudges to be reasonable and just for the provision of those services, and that those terms and conditions shall be deemed for the purposes of proposed section 11 to be reasonable and just. 
The effect of that sub-clause is that once the Commission decides that certain terms and conditions are unreasonable and unjust, or that certain terms and conditions are reasonable and just, then they become part of the law of this land. There are no indicia; no directions as to what is intended to be reasonable; no directions as to what is intended to be just and yet the Commission is to have the broad power to determine them. The ' reasonableness ' and 'justice ' of terms and conditions are the very matters that this Parliament ought to be considering. It should not fall within the responsibility of a body even though set up with the high status and great powers of investigation to lay down the law on these matters for the future, without reference back to this Parliament. I know that their decisions may be amended by law, but it is an extremely wide power to give to such a body. 
In clause 1 5 one finds an even wider provision. The Commission is given power to make orders requiring the observance of terms and conditions in relation to the provision of services by way of or in relation to interstate transport. Again as one reads the Bill one sees that clause 1 1 gradually emerges as the key provision in the Bill. It is the linchpin of the Bill. I shall come back to it later. Clause 17 contemplates even wider powers under other Acts of Parliament being vested in the Commission. Clause 34 emphasises points that I have already made in relation to the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
One might ask: What did the founding fathers intend? With respect, they certainly did not intend a Commission of this description. They did not intend one that extended into every area of trade and commerce, State and interstate. They called it an interstate commission and it was intended to deal basically with the interstate transport system in relation to railways. One can say with some confidence that that must have been their view. Over the years the meaning of the phrase 'laws relating to trade and commerce' under the Constitution has been extended by the High Court. As I have already indicated, laws under section 5 1 (xx) of the Constitution, relating to corporations, have been treated as provisions relating to trade and commerce. However, it was never the intention of the founding fathers that a commission of this description should be set up under the Constitution. If its activities were restricted to interstate trade and commerce then, of course, it might be able to stand consistent with constitutional history. So I would suggest that the proposed Commission goes far beyond what was originally intended. 
One might also ask: Why is there such duplication? Why do we need another body to look over the shoulder of the Trade Practices Commission or to look over the shoulder of other investigatory bodies such as the Industries Assistance Commission? Why do we need it at a time when clearly the Government needs to reduce government expenditure? Why is there a need for yet another body with a multiplicity of public servants and bureaucrats? Why do we need it? These are the questions that have not been answered in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport. I have read the Minister's second reading speech and I can find in it no real justification for the setting up of this tribunal. All 
I can find is a broad assertion. 
I come back to what I said in the beginning: If there is any injustice, malpractice or anything of that description in interstate trade and commerce, then the Minister ought to bring it to the attention of his Cabinet or this Parliament so that we can do something about it. 
The other matter is that this Bill seems to be erected upon the hope that its linchpin provisions will avoid section 92 of the Constitution. Clause 
II of the Bill states: 
The terms and conditions on which a service by way of or in relation to inter-State transport is provided shall be reasonable and just., 
The effect of the Bill is to give the power of determination to the Commission. I have taken the House through the Bill. I say to the Minister that it is extremely doubtful whether such a provision will survive the gamut of section 92 of the Constitution. The Minister ought to consider the Bill a bit more because although the words 'reasonable and just' sound grand words, greater indicia needs to be attached to them in order for such a provision to survive the gamut of section 92. It is not a question of whether it is good or bad to have such a provision: The question is whether such a provision is constitutional. If that is the linchpin of this Bill it ought to give honourable members serious concern whether that provision does not need amendment in order to give some greater direction to the Commission as to the types of matters which it should take into account in determining what is 'reasonable and just' and to show that, in terms of section 92 thinking, the provision is truly regulatory and not a burden on interstate trade and commerce. That is the point to which I am directing my mind at the moment. I suggest that the BUI comes before the House in a form which is not satisfactory. 
Should there be a commission? It may well be that there are good and sufficient reasons for having a commission of some description. I have already conceded that. A commission which has wide investigatory powers to look into questions of malpractice and at ways of making interstate trade more efficient was the original and real intention of the Constitution. I suggest that that is the only justification for it today in view of what has happened since 1900 and in view of the fact that the Government has set up a new Trade Practices Commission with investigatory powers, a Prices Justification Tribunal in that area and an Industries Assistance Commission. It is intended that these bodies look into matters of interstate trade and commerce. I therefore suggest at this stage that the Government should think again about this measure with a view to cutting it down, to making it consistent with the Constitution and also making it consistent with the economic stringencies of this day. The Government should consider making it consistent with legislation which has already been debated and passed by the House and which already provides for wide investigatory procedures and for the making of orders which are intended to deal with malpractices. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government already expended or negotiated to expend large sums of money under the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act? Do these moneys include amounts proposed to be borrowed from overseas by the Minister for Minerals and Energy? Is judgment on the validity of this Act currently reserved before the High Court? Has the Prime Minister heard, recalling a previous occasion, that the odds among learned counsel are in favour of the Act being declared invalid? Will the Prime Minister undertake to the House that no further amounts will be expended or contracted for expenditure until the validity of the Act is determined? 
-What the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  has said, of course, is quite correct. The Opposition is prepared to accept these amendments as fulfilling the Government's undertaking. The more significant one is the amendment to section 24. The original section 24 allowed a Commissioner appointed to inquire under the Act to enter property after giving reasonable notice. The Opposition took the view that the Commissioner's powers in this regard were too wide and that if an occupier did not consent the Commissioner should have to go before a justice of the peace and obtain an order or a warrant of some description to enable him to enter. That requirement is now contained in the proposed new section 24. The Opposition is content to accept it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-This, in a sense, is an extraordinary measure for the Government to be proceeding with. One wonders why it was introduced. One also wonders why it has been pushed ahead. Why does the Government want to transfer the functions of the office of Parliamentary Counsel to the Prime Minister? I can understand that in the time of the previous Attorney-General there might have been some competition in relation to legislation that that Attorney-General may have wished to bring before Cabinet and legislation that other Ministers may have wished to present. I can understand that that may have given rise to some tension or problem and that the only way to solve it was for the Prime Minister perhaps to take it over, but I just cannot imagine that the Prime Minister has such a problem with the present Attorney-General. Therefore I would suggest that the matter ought to be approached, not on the basis of there being a problem about getting Bills through the Parliament because some matter that has arisen in the course of the arrangement of business between the various Ministers, but on the basis of what is the correct and proper way in which to deal with the matter. 
Since the beginning of this Parliament the function of Parliamentary Counsel has been under the control of the Attorney-General. As we know, before 1970 the function was that of the Parliamentary Draftsman. We also know that at one stage the first Solicitor-General and Secretary of the Department of the AttorneyGeneral was also the Parliamentary Draftsman. Over the years these functions have separated, but it was rather obvious from the earliest stages that the Parliamentary Draftsman ought to be a person who is subject to the control of the Attorney-General; and for a very good reason. I am glad to see our parliamentary counsel sitting in the House tonight, because they perform a very valuable service and I think we should take this opportunity to thank them for it. We also know the skill and capacity which they and all the draftsmen who work for them have to bring to bear. The skill and capacity that they bring to bear are basically those of a trained, skilled lawyer. 
A parliamentary draftsman, if I may say so, is in a sense different from any other lawyer in government. Most lawyers in government find themselvers ending up in some small area of work. They may move about from time to time, but basically they find their work in one particular area. The Parliamentary Draftsman is not that sort of person. He must have knowledge of the law that extends right across the whole field of government, because from day to day he has to consider questions of differing nature. He might, on one occasion, be dealing with taxation; on another with compensation; on yet another with a matter relating to health. So the task of a parliamentary draftsman is one that covers the whole field of governmental and public law. 
This is a very important circumstance when one comes to consider where the role of parliamentary counsel should be. We in the Opposition take the view, as expressed by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  that it is best that this function should stay with the AttorneyGeneral. As I said earlier, one can understand that in certain circumstances the Prime Minister might wish it to go elsewhere, but one cannot understand why a busy Prime Minister would want yet another function. 
Bills obviously are matters of considerable importance to this Parliament. So far as his capacity allows him, the Attorney-General of the 
Commonwealth- a trained, gifted lawyerought to be able to consider the Bills before they are presented to this Parliament, to see whether he can give them the necessary authority which they should have before they are produced to the Parliament. I realise that an Attorney-General is to some extent extremely busy and therefore cannot be expected to look at every clause of every Bill, but at the same time somebody has to be responsible. The First and Second Parliamentary Counsel cannot be responsible to this Parliament. Some Minister has to be responsible, and I believe that the only person who is capable of being so is the Attorney-General. It is just unthinkable that the Prime Minister has the time let alone, if I may say with very great respect, the capacity to be able to consider the various problems that arise in the Bills that have to be brought for consideration by us in this and the other House. So common sense, propriety and ministerial responsibility dictate that this matter should be one to rest with the Attorney-General. 
Although this amending legislation will go through, of course it does not follow that the function will immediately transfer to the Prime Minister. We are changing the word 'AttorneyGeneral' to 'Minister'. No doubt there has to be an amendment to the Aministrative Arrangements Order. We would press upon the AttorneyGeneral the need to think again about whether what is being done is the right thing to do in terms of appropriate and proper govern.ment it being the case that whatever brought this about, whatever motivated it, is surely past. 
The other matter referred to is the amendment that is to be put by the Opposition to ensure that at least 2 parliamentary draftsmen are available to members, as distinct from Ministers, not fulltime but with priority for members. Members will have first priority on 2 members of the Parliamentary Counsel's staff. At first thought I must say that I doubted whether this was appropriate, but having given much thought I believe it is a very proper thing for the Parliament to do and a very reasonable thing for the back bench on both sides of this House to ask of the Government. Who better can one quote on this occasion than the Prime Minister himself In 1970 he said: 
There must be a limit to the extent to which the Government can dominate the services of the Parliamentary Counsel. 
The present Prime Minister said that in the debate on the establishment of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel in 1 970. 1 suggest that it is good authority for the amendment that we are proposing to this House. If the recent steps that are being taken in order to attract parliamentary draftsmen to the field are being prosecuted with all the vigour that they deserve through the Legislative Drafting Institute, then one trusts that soon we will be embarrassed by the number of prospective parliamentary draftsmen. But at least they should produce the necessary 2 people whom one hopes will be able to service the back benches of this Parliament. This is therefore a very proper amendment. It is one that should not intrude too much into the needs of government and one that should find applause, we would hope, from the back benches on both sides of this House. 
-May I first say how much I appreciate the learned and impressive contribution that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  made. To those who have worked for and urged the adoption of an adequate system of administrative review in federal law this Bill is of tremendous significance. It represents the first major step towards the establishment in the Commonwealth of such a system. The Bill itself finds its origins in the report of the Kerr Committee of August 1971 which the previous Government began to implement. It is a Bill which I believe in part satisfies the aspirations of both sides in this House in their desire to see a comprehensive, modern, streamlined and just system of administrative review. 
As has already been pointed out, the Bill has significant omissions. It erects a skeleton tribunal but gives it no flesh. Even so, for those of us who have worked for and waited so patiently for something to be done in this area, it represents a welcome and substantial first step. Yet I apprehend that there are still those on both sides of this House and throughout the Public Service who remain sceptical and unconvinced about the necessity for measures such as this. Some even harbour the supinely archaic thought that this Parliament, through its members and question time is and indeed should be the sufficient protector of the public in its dealings with the Executive. Some would even suggest that to create a right of review with respect to the decisions of bureaucrats is unnecessary and a nuisance when we have a Public Service which on the whole has proved itself efficient, fair and above suspicion. That the Public Service has all these characteristics I would readily agree. I only regret, however, that there are still some who have not understood or openly supported a proper system of administrative review, of which this Bill forms part; for there can be no doubt that in a rapidly increasing Public Service the occasion for ignorance, delay, injustice, inefficiency and lack of humanity to trample upon the rights of our people must with certainty increase. Government increasingly intrudes into every aspect of life and the flood of legislation which is passing through this Parliament creating an immense bureaucracy with awesome discretionary powers over the common man should activate our absolute and complete support for such measures. 
It is not the purpose of this legislation to promote litigation between subject and government but to establish the fundamental right of the citizen to have the benefit of the measures which this Parliament enacts by giving the citizen in all proper cases the right to challenge the decision of any public servant or Minister which he thinks wrongly deprives him of that benefit. The mere existence of the right is a palliative to justice and efficiency. It will inform the official that he is under public scrutiny and that inefficiency, ignorance, slothfulness and injustice can no longer be hidden in the bowels of the Public Service, and that if he errs he will be subjected to public review. It will enhance the reputation and integrity of our Public Service, which already stands high. But which of us in this House has not in his duties come across the very ignorance, injustice and inefficiency of which I speak? I faced it myself only last week. 
Those who cling to the notion that we parliamentarians can cope with the citizens' problems in the face of the Executive are deluding themselves. Question time in this House has appeared to me as a new member to be a most ineffective instrument. It is a political exercise used by both sides to gain political points. Seldom will it prove itself a weapon to assist the citizenry in its battle with the Executive. At times it is nothing short of a farce, and for other reasons we should be taking urgent measures to improve it. Questions on notice are also an unsatisfactory means. One only has to look at the questions on notice- over 400 of them, I calculate- dating back to July last that still remain unanswered. Likewise the representations which members make to Ministers, although often satisfied and successful, as I find with the learned Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  sitting opposite, are an inefficient and time consuming process. A critical matter is that at no point can the member or the citizen he represents take any step to correct that human propensity to err, though honestly, which Ministers and the officials they purport to control inevitably possess. 
I am sure you have. Ministerial responsibility in this area is a high sounding phrase, but with the vast increase in departments and the reluctance of any government to proliferate them, the demands on a Minister's time and energy are such that this aspect of ministerial responsibility inevitably has a hollow ring. It is becoming a tinkling cymbal. It is impossible for a Minister to be looking over the shoulder of the countless officials whom he controls. The power of Parliament as the grand inquisitor of the realm has long gone unchallenged; but likewise has the limitation of the power of the Parliament to exercise power over the executive. Lord Coleridge said in Howard v. Gosset in 1845:  ... the Commons are, in the words of Lord Coke, the general inquisitors of the realm ... it would be difficult to define any limits by which the subject matter of their inquiry can be bounded . . . they may inquire into everything which it concerns the public weal for them to know. 
From as early as the time of Edward III the United Kingdom Parliament freely exercised the function of tendering advice to the Crown upon matters the final determination of which lay with the Crown. The Commons, as the 'Grand Inquest of the Kingdom' always regarded itself as entitled to approach the Crown with advice or remonstrance upon all affairs of State and in regard to every grievance under which any subjects of the realm might be suffering. 
A resolution of the House of 1784 illustrates the view of the Commons as to its function in this regard. It reads as follows: 
That it is constitutional and agreeable to usage for the House of Commons to declare their sense and opinions respecting the exercise of every discretionary power which whether by Act of Parliament or otherwise, is vested in any body of men whatsoever for the public service. 
However, the constitutional framework within which this function was exercised is explained by May in his 'Constitutional History of England '. It reads as follows: 
Parliament has no direct control over any single department of the state. It may order the production of papers for its information; it may investigate the conduct of public officers and may pronounce its opinion upon the manner in which every function of government has been or ought to be discharged; but it cannot convey its orders or directions to the meanest executive officer in relation to the performance of his duty. Its power over the executive is exercised indirectly, but not the less effectively, through the responsible Ministers of the Crown. 
The courts, from the earliest days, also attempted to control the Executive and thus developed the prerogative writs of mandamus, prohibition and certiorari. These are writs of which the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is at the table, has had great experience in industrial matters. These, however, are limited in scope and over time have become encrusted with technicalities. One learned commentator has written: 
An imaginary system cunningly planned for the evil purpose of thwarting justice and maximising fruitless litigation would copy the major features of these extraordinary remedies. 
The Statute Law Revision Committee- the Victorian Committee- in its report of February 1968 described them with equal admiration. The report states: 
In terms of the individual seeking a just solution to his problem, the ramifications of judicial review by these methods are at best frustrating. The salient feature of interest to him in these proceedings- the legality of the administrative act or decision at issue- appears to be subordinate to seemingly endless legal argument as to the propriety of the method of review employed. Such exchanges will involve him in substantial costs and may not succeed in supplying him with a firm solution to his problems. In any case, a judicial consideration of the lawfulness of an administrative act or decision may not always satisfy his real need- a means of reviewing the fairness, adequacy, or impartiality of such an act or decision. 
Nobody with any real appreciation and experience of the problems of administrative review would fail to recognise the deep need for parliamentary intervention to establish a simplified yet just and comprehensive system. Parliament, of course, on many occasions has provided for the review of administrative decisions on the merits by establishing specialised tribunals, and reference has already been made to these. At no time, however, was any attempt made to confer a general right of review and as a result many citizens were discriminated against- left remediless unless they were prepared to indulge in a prerogative writ or to seek the intervention of their politician. That system, which prevails until now, just is not good enough. 
The Kerr Committee, established by the previous Government, made the first recommendations for a comprehensive system of administrative review in relation to decisions under Federal law. The Committee made 5 major recommendations. First; it recommended the adoption of a simplified system of judicial review to avoid the need for recourse to the prerogative writ. Secondly, it reported that in its view there was sufficient justification for the establishment of a general administrative review tribunal of the character that we have in this Bill. Thirdly, it recommended the establishment of an office called a counsel for grievances who, in essence, was an ombudsman. Fourthly, it recommended a large number of simplified review procedures for adoption. Fifthly, it recommended the establishment of a permanent administrative review council for a number of purposes, including the examination of administrative discretions under Commonwealth law to determine those which were appropriate for review on the merits by a general administrative review tribunal or a specialised tribunal. 
The previous Government did not establish a permanent administrative review council but, late in 1971, appointed the Bland Committee to do much the same work. That Committee spent considerable time considering Commonwealth laws and in October 1973 presented its final report, setting out in the schedules already mentioned by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  the provisions which it thought could be the subject of review by a general administrative review tribunal. This measure, therefore, implements one major recommendation of the Kerr Committee, namely, the establishment of a general administrative review tribunal. However, as has already been pointed out, the Bill fails to give the tribunal any immediate jurisdiction. What is thought to be substance turns out to be form. The citizen is precisely no better off. 
It is reprehensible enough for the Government to have delayed so long since the Bland Committee reported, but to do so and to produce this body without implementing the recommendations made by that Committee after substantial work says little for the Government's enthusiasm for reform in this area. The Government had final recommendations for an ombudsman within 6 weeks of its coming to office. Yet only now, 2 years and 3 months later, do we see a Bill for an ombudsman. In the meantime we have heard much about an abortive Bill for human rights but the establishment of basic rights for the citizen in his dealing with bureaucracy have been neglected. So the Opposition proposes to seek to amend this Bill in order to give the tribunal effective jurisdiction immediately. Over 100 discretions would then be subject to review. 
The Attorney-General's answer is for his Department to consult with other departments about appropriate matters for appeal. Why the delay? The Bland Committee carried out a long, exhaustive investigation involving other Government departments. I have had enough to do with our Public Service to realise that this suggestion of the Attorney-General could be the kiss of death. I cannot share the optimism of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  With the Attorney-General's co-operation, we shall do most of the work now. 
Another basic and far sighted amendment which the Opposition will press is to establish an administrative review council and so implement another recommendation of the Kerr Committee. This council would consist of officials, including the  president,  the ombudsman, the  chairman  of the Law Reform Commission, a senior administrative official and a parliamentary draftsman. It would enable a permanent and informed consideration of the process of adrninistrative and judicial review. It would review further discretions to see whether they were appropriate for review by the administrative appeals tribunal. It would have a small staff to assist it. 
There are further steps to be taken to implement much needed reform in this field. We have not yet sighted any measure to improve the procedures and grounds for judicial review. As I have already explained, this is a much needed reform when this, together with the Ombudsman Bill and the present Bill are passed, Australia will have one of the most comprehensive and effective systems of administrative review. We will have caught up with some, and surpassed most other, countries in this field of law and no longer will it be possible to say that bureaucracy will be triumphant. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer the AttorneyGeneral to rumours that are being circulated by sections of the media and others, alleging that a number of public figures have been cited in a divorce petition allegedly issued recently. Can the Attorney-General give the lie to these seemingly unfounded rumours? 
I have certain amendments that will provide 3 grounds for dissolution. Shortly stated they are: First, separation for 24 months; second, genuine consent to dissolution after separation for 12 months; and third, a ground enabling the court to dissolve the marriage where it is satisfied, having regard to the conduct of the parties, that it has broken down irretrievably. This latter ground will not be available where a decree can be granted on one of the earlier 2 grounds or where the only conduct relied on is lack of cohabitation. 
We are in the course of redefining the rights and obligations attaching to the most personal and fundamental relationship that can exist between 2 people. They are trite, familiar words but ominously true. The Bill in clause 43 recognises this and commits both Parliament and courts to the preservation of marriage and family. It is essential that in our redefinition we have an ear not only to the fundamental nature of the institution of marriage but also to the needs and demands of a changing society and to basic principles of justice. It is with these in mind that I have drafted my amendments. They have also been drafted having in mind that there has been much difference of opinion in the debates and in an attempt to present a consensus which I hope will find support from a substantial majority of this Committee. 
Many honourable members, including the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  have expressed the view that the present clause is inadequate. I find it so for 2 main reasons. First, it will inevitably lead to injustice to those who are entitled to say that their marriage has broken down irretrievably even though they have not been separated for 12 months or at all. This is a serious intrusion on people's fundamental rights. Even though these people may be few, the rights of the few are as important as the rights of the many. Second, it is an artificial and arbitrary test to adopt as the sole criterion for measuring the irretrievable breakdown of marriage. It is a dangerous assumption to make that even in the great majority of cases a year's separation indicates that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. The present clause therefore fails to achieve the fundamental object of the Bill, namely, to support the family. The period of separation which indicates irretrievable breakdown should be longer. These reasons have prompted my amendments. 
I have chosen 2 years separation because it is beyond reasonable doubt that a marriage of parties apart for so long has irretrievably broken down. It sustains the institution itself. A large number of honourable members have supported a ground for divorce by consent after 12 months separation. This recognises the fact that a marriage may well have broken down after such a period but requires the consent of the parties to its dissolution. The ground in paragraph (c) of my proposed new sub-clause is to provide for dissolution in cases where parties are still living together or have not been apart for a sufficiently long period, but where nevertheless the marriage has clearly broken down. Parties do not have to wait for 2 years. 
Let me make it clear that this ground, contrary to what the Attorney-General has said, does not reintroduce fault. It requires the court to consider the state of the marriage and to decide whether it has broken down irretrievably in fact. Under this ground a party would not necessarily prove the traditional matters such as adultery, cruelty or drunkenness. Under this ground a course of conduct which did not amount to a ground for dissolution under the present law could suffice. The conduct would however have to be serious enough to satisfy the court that the marriage had broken down irretrievably. Under this ground a so-called guilty party could obtain a decree for dissolution as he or she could under the first 2 grounds in my amendment. What the AttorneyGeneral says is a complete exaggeration. It is, therefore, not true to say that it reintroduces fault. Of course, it looks at behaviour. So does the court under other provisions of the Act. This ground will enable justice to be done in appropriate cases. I would add only that opinions have differed greatly on this clause. All seem agreeable to amending the existing law. We have a free vote and we probably represent a true cross section of society. This is one of those rare occasions when we should try to legislate by consensus and produce a law, relating as it does to society's fabric, that finds favour with a great majority. I would therefore ask those honourable members who have hitherto supported the present clause to see my amendment as an opportunity for us to speak with one voice. 
-There is an amendment in my name that seeks to delete clause 21. 
-A proposed amendment circulated in my name v.ieks at the end of sub-clause ( 1 ) to add: 
in such other Court of a State or Territory (not being a Court of summary jurisdiction) as may be prescribed. 
Of course one has to accept the proposition that there will be a Family Court of Australia. One also has to accept the limitation in the Bill that for the time being there will be only 6 judges of that court. I wonder whether I could have the ear of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  on this point because what I am putting may affect whether I have to call for a division on the question. 
-I appreciate that. I am proposing an addition to paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 39. 1 have in mind that even though a Family Court of Australia is to be established and even though there may be concurrent jurisdiction in supreme courts, I think the Attorney-General will be familiar with the problem of jurisdiction being exercised in country areas where perhaps the State supreme court does not sit or where there are not the funds or the opportunity for the Family Court to sit. The purpose of my proposed amendment, which I suggest is quite appropriate to provide an alternative, is to enable jurisdiction to be granted, for instance, to district courts. The learned Attorney-General may recall that in New South Wales divorce cases were remitted to the district court. Particularly if the only ground for divorce is to be one year's separation, it would not tax the intellectual capacity of judges to arrive at a decision as to whether that ground is established. Therefore it may be- I say this with great respect to district court and county court judges- that this may be a proper jurisdiction to give in some instances to judges who are sitting in country towns and even in the suburban areas of big cities like Sydney to make it more convenient for parties to applications for dissolution of marriage to have their divorce proceedings dealt with. 
Under the existing Act it has been the practice to require the concurrent matters of maintenance and custody to be dealt with at or about the same time as the dissolution of marriage is dealt with. But under this Bill, if it becomes law, this will no longer be necessary except, I think, in relation to custody. The maintenance matters will be dealt with at another time. So the application for dissolution of marriage will be a separate procedure. As I have already said, it is a proceeding which could fall within the competence of judges who sit in a district court or a county court. Certainly for the convenience of parties such matters ought to be dealt with by them in appropriate cases. Of course, where the judges are members of the Family Court, they may so sit. There may be many cases, such as in country towns, where judges could well exercise the dissolution jurisdiction under this Act. Therefore I suggest to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that this amendment may be one on which he is prepared to indicate to me that he will give favourable consideration to it in due course. For that reason I would not seek to force a division on this amendment. If the Attorney-General indicates that he will give favourable consideration to it, I will be quite happy with that. 
-I rise on this clause only to seek some assurance from the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  A document was circulated by him recently. It said, in part: 
The Family Law Bill contains provisions for the establishment of a Family Court of Australia. This would be a Federal court - these are the words which trouble me a little: 
. which would ultimately exercise all the jurisdiction under the Family Law Bill. 
If that is read literally, it means all the jurisdiction in all the States and in all the Territories and at all levels. As the Attorney-General is aware, the provisions of clause 21 of this Bill restrict the number of family court judges to six. In subclause (3) of clause 21 there is power by regulation to add to the number of judges. The history of that sub-clause is that it was included, as I understand it, in the Senate Committee stage of this Bill as a brake on the Attorney-General in his appointment of judges, as the Senate Committee of the whole felt that the requirements of clause 41 should be adhered to and felt rather strongly that these family courts, both for constitutional reasons and for other reasons, ought to be established in all States. So clause 41 was inserted after the inquiry by the Senate Standing Committee to ensure that this would take place. 
What I have read from the statement circulated by the Attorney-General certainly leads me to think that he may not be going to observe the requirements of clause 41 or that he is not going to approach them with the degree of sincerity and vigour that they deserve. All I seek is a statement from the Attorney-General as to his intentions with regard to the implementation of the provisions of clause 41 of this Bill. They are very significant. They alone can provide for the appointment under clause 65 of judges of the requisite competence and expertise. They alone, in other words, can provide an effective family court system under the present constitutional structure. It is of tremendous importance, not only to the Senate but also to those of us who have some faith in the family court system as such, that this provision be adhered to. 
I think that the amendment proposed by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  is completely and utterly legalistic. It seeks to introduce into the Bill a lawyer's idea of marriage. That was never the intention of clause 43 (a). Clause 43 (a) states what are the aspirations of the parties to a marriage. It states that the marriage is: the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
When 2 people get married I guess that that is their aspirations. I hope that we do nothing in this Parliament to reduce that idea. We all know that a marriage may irretrievably breakdown. We know that events may occur during the marriage to indicate that the parties were never suited and that they should never have married. We also know that events will occur which will bring about the end of that marriage. But one thing ought to be clear: When people participate in a marriage ceremony, whether it be in a registry office, a church or in some other place, and that ceremony is recognised by law the parties to it should look upon it as a permanent union and one that they will with all sincerity try to maintain permanently for life. That is what 'permanently' means. If we start to undermine the idea of marriage with ideas that it is in some way qualified by lawyers' language I believe we take away rather fundamentally from this still most personal and most precious institution in our lives. 
-My difficulty with this clause arises from the Marriage Act itself. Section 22 of the Marriage Act states: 
Notwithstanding sub-section (2.) of section twenty-two or sub-section (3.) of section twenty-five of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959, the provisions of sections eighteen, nineteen and twenty of that Act relating to the prohibited degrees of consanguinity and affinity and the Second Schedule to that Act apply in relation to marriages in Australia, other than marriages to which Division 3 of Part IV. of this Act applies, and to marriages under Part V. of this Act, wherever the parties are domiciled or intend to make their home. 
Unless I am mistaken, there is a real chance that by virtue of this amendment, the 2 Acts, assuming that this Bill becomes an Act, will get out of step. It could have serious effects. In other words, there would be certain prohibited degrees for marriage but a narrower class for divorce. My only suggestion to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  is that this is a reason why the amendment to the prohibited degrees ought to be a matter for the Marriage Act being amended, rather than the Family Law Bill. I urge on him the idea of perhaps retaining for the time being, and no doubt perhaps for a short period, the prohibited degrees under the old law until an amendment is brought in to the Marriage Act. That is my suggestion. If I am right in what I say, then there are serious consequences which could flow. 
It amazes me that so many honourable members in this chamber are attempting to find excuses for not upholding the position of a woman who wants to remain a wife and a mother. We have had statements from a number of people - 
Take the exception outside. 
Of course we are. He is in my electorate. It amazes me that honourable members are trying to find justification for defeating this amendment. I believe it states something which is basic to our society and needs upholding, though a number of spurious arguments have been put about it already. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  has said that it is absolutely clear. Let us be clear about one thing: This clause applies not only on divorce but it applies also during marriage. Therefore the clause is appropriate to describe the position of a woman who is going to continue to be a wife and going to continue to be in the matrimonial home. Let us be clear about that. So the words are appropriate. It is said that paragraph (c) is appropriate. It reads:  whether either party has the care or control of a child of the marriage who has not attained the age of 1 8 years; 
Let us understand this: In this day and age some of the most difficult problems that young people face arise when they are 1 8 years and over, when they are going to university, when they have the problems of work. This is the time when their parents are most needed. I believe that when honourable members realise that they will quickly realise that paragraph (c) is no answer. Neither is paragraph (k) which states:  the duration of the marriage and the extent to which it has affected the earning capacity of the party whose maintenance is under consideration; 
The proposal before the Committee is to put emphasis on the position of the woman who wants to commit herself to the marriage, and to make it quite clear that what we said with regard to clause 41 we really mean, so that when the question of maintenance comes up the woman who does want to commit herself as a mother and a wife will be taken into consideration and will not be treated as a second-class citizen, a deprived person, a person who has to be considered for social services in this country. The last paragraph of the clause states:  any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires to be taken into account. 
That is a dragnet clause. There is nothing else with regard to this matter in the Bill. There is nothing else in the Bill to bring in this provision. To say that it exists already is a lot of nonsense. I hope that honourable members will have the courage to stand up for what they said with regard to clause 41 and put it into words with regard to clause 75. 
The Attorney-General can tell honourable members the present law, if he knows it. I wish to say something further about this clause. The Attorney-General has been yelling: 'Fault, fault, fault.' I agree with the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  and I did not have anything for dinner, as the Attorney-General might well know. I might well say to the Attorney-General that 'fault, fault, fault is gleaming throughout clause 75 and clause 1 14, and from one end of the Bill to the other. Let us not go on with this humbug. It is there. It is in neon lights and the court will consider it. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Malcolm Fraser's)  be agreed to. 
I draw the attention of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to clause 9 which states; 
A presidential member has the same rank, status and precedence as a judge of the Superior Court of Australia. 
There is no such court. It might be a little confusing. 
Proposed clauses 47a, 47b and 47C are tremendously important to the Opposition. In the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill members of the Opposition indicated the significance of this proposal. Actually the Kerr Committee did recommend that the first step that ought to be taken in relation to judicial and administrative review was the setting up of such a Council. The Opposition believes, notwithstanding the fact that that was not done in 197 1 and notwithstanding that it was not done by the present Government when it came into office, that it should be done now. Acceptance of this proposal would have the effect of setting up a permanent council which would combine in it the  President,  the Ombudsman, the  Chairman  of the Australian Law Reform Commission, a senior administrative official and a parliamentary draftsman. It would therefore not be a body which would lead to the incurring of great additional expense. It would require a small number of research staff to be appointed to service it in an appropriate way. I take it that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  agrees that this is an appropriate proposal. I hope that he does not seek to delay it. I hope that he will agree to it being done now rather than at a later stage because there is a basic need, as he has indicated in previous speeches, to have the questions of administrative review and judicial review under constant surveillance. That can be achieved only by having a permanent body. The idea advanced in the second reading speech of the AttorneyGeneral that there be some committee of the Attorney-General's Department is, with very great respect, not sufficient. Of course, it would be to some extent an offence to people such as the  President  of this Tribunal and the Ombudsman if some other body was dealing with these significant questions. This is a basic amendment as far as the Opposition is concerned and the Opposition presses it. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to recent demonstrations inside and outside Parliament House by young people objecting to the export of uranium. I also refer the Prime Minister to the strong stand which his Government has taken against the French over atmospheric nuclear tests and in relation to nuclear non-proliferation. Will the Prime Minister explain, for the benefit of the House and of the young people concerned, why it is that there are no double standards involved in his Government's taking this strong stand whilst permitting the export of uranium to countries in circumstances in which the minerals could be used for the production of nuclear weapons. 
I rise on the motion for the third reading as I did not have the opportunity to take part in the earlier debate. The most significant thing about this Bill is that it underlies and underscores the fact that the National Heritage belongs to all of us. It is not a matter that relates to government at only one level. The tenor of the debate has been to recognise the fact that governments at all levels, and all the people, have a great interest in this question. I know that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has endeavoured during his ministry to co-operate with the States in relation to this matter. I know that the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  has indicated his willingness to do so in matters relating to his portfolio. 
This debate has been significant in that we have been able to put into the Bill a very significant amendment that underscores the need for complete consideration at all levels of government. We look forward to that. I am sure that it will take place. In the process, I believe that we will be able better to deal with our National Heritage. At the same time I think it is significant to realise that in the community today lots of people are living in places that could easily be declared to be pan of the National Heritage. The result is that their ability to deal with property is hindered. I am not speaking necessarily of wealthy people; I am speaking sometimes of poor people who may have a little bit of Victorian lace on their front verandas. If the house is classified by the National Trust they may not be able to add an additional room or enclose the veranda. There have been situations like that. I think that the National Heritage development demands some form of restraint in that regard. In other words, there is no need to declare large areas of buildings as part of the National Heritage because many of them are still the very personal habitat of a lot of people, and usually of a lot of people whose needs are very great. I do not need to tell the Ministers about such people. I am referring to people, for instance, who live in the electorate of Sydney, people who live in my electorate and people in areas such as Paddington. They have reason to be troubled about this sort of development. I do not say that to create a problem; I say it only because I believe that the development of the National Heritage requires that sense of restraint. 
One matter that caused me a little concern was the Government's rejection of the provision for compensation. It will be expensive to preserve the National Estate. If the effect of declaring a property as being part of the National Heritage or placing it on the register is materially to depreciate its value, it seems to us that that ought to be a matter for compensation. We would press that view on the Government. I am sure that between the time this Bill is passed through this House and the time when it comes to the Senate the Government will be able to give that matter further consideration because it does go to a basic tenet of our constitution; that is to say, when property is acquired it can be acquired only on just terms. If the result of a building being declared as part of the national estate is that the land on which that building stands is materially depreciated in value it is proper from the community's point of view that the community should compensate the owner of that land. Indeed, it may be part of the restraint that is needed in applying such provisions. 
I come back to what I said in the beginning. I hope that we will all see ourselves as protectors of what is our national heritage. I do not think that there is any need to question the sincerity of members on this side of the House. We have thoroughly supported this measure. We hope that the Government is able to implement it with all the spirit that is involved in the Minister's approach to it and in the Bill itself. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
-This must be the most extraordinary debate that has ever taken place in this House. I must say that I am completely and utterly confused. Perhaps, sometimes, that is a reason to sit down, but it is not a reason for me to sit down at the moment. I want to talk about Tasmania, which is very dear to my heart. The Bill dealing with Tasmania has already been passed and has long since gone, but apparently I am entitled to talk about Tasmania now. 
I shall talk about the Bill itself which is as confusing as the debate has been. When one reads this Bill one finds that apparently it is intended to be a double dissolution Bill. I imagine that is what the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has in mind. He thinks this Bill will go into the Senate, that there it will be knocked back and that then he will bring it into this place again in 3 months time. He hopes it will be knocked back again at that stage. What an extraordinary Bill it is. When this Bill comes into operation- that is, after some procedure has taken place in the unlikely event of the Government being returned at the next election- it will be proclaimed, it will come into force and it will govern the House of Representatives elections held after 21 May 1975. That is an extraordinary procedure. Apparently it means that we will have an election as a result of a double dissolution. After that, this over-optimistic Government thinks it will be returned to office, at which time it will proclaim this particular Bill to make the electoral divisions operative in relation to an election which has already taken place. That is as confusing as the debate. In relation to Tasmania of course there are no members from Tasmania in the House at the moment, they are as confused as I am and they have all gone off - 
As I said, the members from Tasmania are as confused as any other honourable member in this House would be with such a debate. I should like to illustrate why, in relation to Tasmania, it is quite clearly absolutely unnecessary to have this redistribution. We know that in Tasmania the proportions are well and truly within the Electoral Act as it now stands. In other words, they are within the 10 per cent limit. 
That has been made clear by other honourable members. 
In Tasmania the State boundaries are governed by the Federal electoral boundaries. There are 5 State electorates for every Federal electorate. What an extraordinary inconvenience this Bill, if it becomes law, will produce for Tasmania. Not only will there be an unnecessary division but also we will find ourselves in the position that five of the State boundaries also will have to be changed. What do we have in Tasmania? We have 30 members whose seats would be altered by this unnecessary and inequitable redistribution. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  in a speech earlier this month agreed that this redistribution was not necessary. He indicated quite clearly that he felt that it was quite unnecessary. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I rise in this debate as the Opposition spokesman for Tasmania in the House of Representatives. I rise to support the Opposition's attitude to the Railways (Tasmania) Bill which is, because it is a Bill to implement an agreement between 2 sovereign governments- the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Tasmania- that the Bill should not be opposed. It is, of course, an historic debate because it represents the Australian Parliament's first intrusion into the running of State railways. Therefore it may be an occasion which the Australian Parliament could well live to regret when it comes to consider the growing deficits that appear in railway operations over the years. However, let us be optimistic and hope that in the coming years the deficits will grow into surpluses. Let us hope that there will be an efficient railway system in this country. 
Of course the Bill in relation to the railways of Tasmania can only come into operation if an Act of the Parliament of Tasmania approves it. The current position in Tasmania is that the Upper House will not pass the Bill because it takes the view that Tasmania has not got as good a deal in this matter as South Australia has and therefore it has sent the Tasmanian Government off to the Australian Government to see if it can get some better assurances. Perhaps for that reason it would have been better had this debate not proceeded. However, no harm can really be done to Tasmania by proceeding with the measure because, as I say, it is a Bill that is dependent for its operation on the approval of the Tasmanian Parliament- an approval that has not yet been given. 
However, what should be of grave concern to this Parliament and to anybody interested in Tasmania's rights are the reasons that have apparently caused the Upper House to request the Government of Tasmania to obtain further assurances from the Australian Government in relation to the Agreement. This concern of the Tasmanian Upper House arises out of a comparison between the 2 railways agreements, namely, the Tasmanian agreement and the South Australian agreement. Both are the subject of this debate, and I do not wish to repeat at length what the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has said already both with clarity and vigour in relation to the matter. 
But I wish to refer to the differences as it may be of assistance to honourable members and also to the listening public to consider shortly what the main points of difference are between the 2 Agreements. I think we need to emphasise those matters which indicate that Tasmania really is not being adequately protected by the existing Agreement. The main points of difference are: First of all, Tasmania is transferring all its railways, whereas South Australia is transferring only its non-metropolitan railways. In the South Australian Principles of Agreement, there is the following provision: 
The Australian and State Governments agree that a separate metropolitan rapid transit system in South Australia is a desirable long-term objective and that studies will be initiated to establish the technical and economic feasibility of a complete or partial separation between the systems. 
No such provision is contained in the Tasmanian Principles of Agreement. No such undertaking has been given by the Commonwealth Government to enter into any inquiry or to give any consideration to the introduction of a rapid transit system into Tasmania's 2 large cities- Hobart with a population of over 140 000, and Launceston with a population of over 70 000. Tasmanians may well think that surely Tasmania is entitled to a similar guarantee. Again clause 8 of the South Australian Agreement as set out in the Schedule to the Bill requires the Commission to maintain in general, fares, freight rates and other charges at levels comparable with those applying in other States and requires that advantages already given in relation to fares, freight rates and other charges are to be maintained. Obviously, this is a most beneficial provision. But, again, it is not included in the Tasmanian agreement. 
Tasmania, under its agreement, is to continue to subsidise any concessional rates. Why is there this discrimination? Is it perhaps indicative of the fact that there is a relatively strong Government in South Australia and a weak one, perhaps an abysmally weak one, in Tasmania? Why should Tasmanians be disadvantaged in this way? Why are not honourable members representing Tasmanian seats in this House pressing for some change of this agreement in order to put Tasmania in a better position? 
Another matter of difference relates to the differences in the standards of operation of the railways. Clause 7 of the Agreement, as set out in the Schedule to the Railways (South Australia) Bill, provides: 
The non-metropolitan railways - 
Those are the ones taken over by the Australian Government: . . . shall be operated, on and after the commencement date, in accordance with standards in all respects at least equal to those obtaining at the date of the agreement, and the Commission will pursue a program of improvements, which it considers to be economically desirable to ensure standards of service and facilities at least equivalent, in general, to those at any time current in respect to the remainder of the Australian National Railways and the railways of States other than South Australia. 
In other words, the South Australian nonmetropolitan railways to be taken over by the Commonwealth will not be run any less efficiently than the railways in any other States. 
Clause 9 of the Agreement relating to South Australia says: 
1 ) The Australian Minister will obtain the prior agreement of the State Minister to- 
Any proposal for the closure of a railway line of the non-metropolitan railways; or 
The reduction in the level of effectively demanded services on the non-metropolitan railways, and failing agreement on any of these matters the dispute shall be determined by arbitration. 
I turn now to the Railways (Tasmania) Bill, in the Schedule to which is set out the Agreement relating to Tasmania. What do we find in clause 6? This clause provides: 
When so requested by the State, the Australian Minister or his delegate will consult with the State on matters regarding the operation of the existing and new railways within the State which the State considers to be of concern to the State. 
Again, why is Tasmania not entitled to the maintenance of standards at the level existing elsewhere in Australia? Why is it disadvantaged? We might well ask: Is it again the result of a strong Government in South Australia or a relatively weak one in Tasmania? Is it because representation in the Government from Tasmania is not pressing sufficiently for Tasmania's rights in relation to this very significant acquisition of Tasmania's property? 
Let us look now at clause 5 of the Principles of Agreement relating to South Australia. The clause provides: 
The Australian Government will agree to construct and operate a rail connection to the container terminal at Outer Harbour and to improve and where necessary replace the main line to Murray Bridge in order to ensure a high standard service to the growth centre at Monarto, subject to evaluation by the Bureau of Transport Economics showing these to be economically desirable. 
One can search the Tasmanian Agreement or the Principles of Agreement, but there is no such provision for Tasmania. There is no agreement to give to Tasmania the right to have particular lines constructed, even though there must be situations in Tasmania similar to those covered in South Australia. 
Other provisions illustrate this discrimination. For instance, clause 11(8) of the South Australian Agreement provides: 
The Commission will transfer to the State free of charge land within the State which is vested in the Commission pursuant to this Agreement and is no longer required for railway purposes. 
I turn to clause 10 (5) of the Agreement relating to Tasmania. What do we find? The sub-clause states: 
Australia or the Australian Commission will give to the State the right of first refusal in respect of any land to be vested in the Australian Commission pursuant to this agreement and no longer required for the purposes of Australia, the Australian Commission, or any other Authority or Instrumentality of Australia, on such terms and conditions as shall be agreed between the parties, and having regard to the basis on which the relevant land was vested in the Australian Commission. 
In one case the Australian Government has agreed to transfer free of charge to the South Australian Government land which it does not require. Tasmania has no such guarantee. It may get it free of charge, but it may not. All Tasmania has by way of right is a right of first refusal. So again we find a distinct disadvantage to Tasmania in this agreement. There are other provisions. For instance, the South Australian Government has the right to appoint to the Australian National Railways Commission a part time representative for 2 consecutive terms of 5 years. Under the Tasmanian agreement the Tasmanian Government can appoint a representative for only one term of 5 years. Why is there a difference? Why is South Australia to have greater representation than Tasmania? In relation to the Australian Shipping Commission the Tasmanian Government is given the right to appoint a representative to that Commission for one 5-year term. In view of the fact that the Railways Commission is such an important body one wonders why Tasmania is limited to a single 5-year term. 
It is in this situation that we find differences between the 2 agreements on a very vital matter. I am only pointing out ways in which Tasmania seems to be disadvantaged when compared with South Australia in relation to the agreement. Of course there are other differences in relation to amounts which the honourable member for Gippsland has mentioned. Tasmania gets $5m whereas South Australia gets $10m by way of grants. In relation to South Australia, debts totalling $ 124m are taken over whereas the debt in relation to Tasmania is $63m. This difference may be explained by other reasons. It may be that calculations were done on a different financial basis. I must say in fairness that what superficially may be open to criticism may turn out to be not so great a disadvantage to Tasmania as it at first seems. However, there are unexplained differences in financial matters on the face of the agreement. 
As to the other differences, these are matters which it appears the Tasmanian Upper House requested the Tasmanian Government to take up with the Australian Government. I have pointed them out. I trust that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  who is at the table will give consideration to these matters. Perhaps in his speech in reply he will indicate his willingness to give some assurance to Tasmania that it will not be disadvantaged when compared with South Australia in relation to these matters and that Tasmania will be on an equal footing with South 
Australia. Another matter which has caused concern is the fear on the part of many people in Tasmania that the intention of the Government is to intrude into road transport. The Minister stated in his second reading speech on the Railways (South Australian) Bill: . . . in the debate on the Australian National Railways Bill I accepted an amendment proposed by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  relating to the ancillary services that the Commission can engage in. The definition of 'services' contained in clause 1 of the Agreement has been drawn with the honourable member's amendment in mind for it defines 'services' as 'services including passenger and freight road services that are incidental or supplementary to, or ale operated in association with the non-metropolitan railways'. 
The Minister in his speech which relates to both Tasmania and South -Australia was referring to a specific provision for South Australia. Clause 10 of the Railways (Tasmania) Bill provides: 
On and after the declared date, the Australian Commission may- 
construct and extend railways in Tasmania in accordance with the Agreement and administer, maintain and operate railways so constructed or extended and services (including passenger and freight road services) incidental or supplementary to, or associated with, those railways. 
Those words have a very wide meaning. They would enable the authority, the Australian National Railways Commission, to undertake road transport in Tasmania in such a way that it was not merely incidental, in the sense that some goods were being transported and had to be taken to a close destination because most of their journey had been by rail; it could encompass activities which would involve the Australian Railways Commission engaging in road transport to a considerable degree. Having in mind the Minister's second reading speech, one assumes that that is not the intention of this legislation. It would be of grave concern to those who are engaged in road transport in Tasmania if their businesses were to be the subject of competition from the Commission. I do not believe that the Tasmanian Labor members of this House would support the Australian Railways Commission engaging in competition with road hauliers in Tasmania and putting many people out of business. One looks to the Minister, in the light of his second reading speech, to assure this House that it is not the intention of his Government that the Commission undertake large road haulage activities of a business character in Tasmania. 
I conclude by repeating the Opposition's attitude to this Bill. We regard it as an historic first step by the Australian Parliament to enter into the field of the acquisition of State railways. At the same time, because it is an agreement between the governments of Tasmania and Australia, we see no proper basis on which the Bill ought to be opposed. It should be passed. On the other hand, we can have only mild optimism whether the venture will be successful. Many people in Tasmania think it is a retrograde measure which will put the railways into the hands of people who are distant from their concern. Let us hope that the Australian Railways Commission, when it takes over the railways of Tasmania, will show that concern which is just as close as it has been in the past and as it would be with a concerned railways commission operated by a State. However, that is still to be seen. 
-The Committee will recall that when the Bill was introduced into the Senate it contained provisions which would have enabled any Aboriginal or any Islander to have access to a reserve in the State of Queensland. This proposal met with great opposition from the Aboriginal and Island councils in Queensland who claimed that they should have the right to say who shall go on to their reserves. Honourable members will recall that the Opposition supported strongly the councils' attitude and in the Senate the original provisions were taken out. The matter came back to this House and the original provision was put back in by the Government by use of its numbers in this place. But when the Bill returned to the Senate the Government indicated that it would be prepared to move an amendment which would recognise the right of the Aboriginal and Islander councils to say who would go on to their reserves, either by way of visit or by way of residence. 
The Opposition regards this as an acceptance of the principle of self determination which we regard as of great importance. In a sense we treat it as a victory for self determination. We hope that a Bill relating to land rights in the Northern Territory, which we understand the Government is about to introduce into the Senate will contain a similar principle so that the rights of Aboriginal councils in the Northern Territory to say who goes on to their lands will be preserved. At the moment, of course, there is a veto right in the Government in relation to the Northern Territory. One hopes that this will be removed in favour of a right which will be exercisable by the Aboriginal councils. This amendment is one that the Opposition wanted all the time, and therefore it is very anxious and willing to accept it. 
-I rise to take part in the debate simply because I did not take part in the debate earlier in the House and since then I have become the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I feel that I should say, that personally, I applaud the Government's decision to accept the amendments that were made by the Opposition in the Senate. I think that they make the measure a much better measure than it was when it was introduced into this chamber. A lot of people are opposed to a racial discrimination Bill. They believe that the law should not attempt to enforce morals in this area. Of course, it is true to say that the basic solution to discrimination lies with individuals. In the end, the law cannot solve the problem at all. In the end, it depends on people having the proper attitudes to one another and not allowing matters such as are referred to in this Bill to affect their decisions about people. In the end, one cannot legislate for morals. 
But at the same time the law has always had a part to play- the common law and the statute law- in embodying the moral attitudes of society. I personally believe that a racial discrimination Act, as this will now become, embodying as it does the aspirations of our society for attitudes that ought to exist between individuals in the society will, in the end, promote the proper relationship. However, that relationship has to be promoted in the right way. There is a passage in the New Testament about which I have always wondered where it is said that you ought to settle your differences on the way to court. In a way this Bill embodies that very concept. In other words, it attempts to settle the differences on the way to court. It is to be hoped that all those differences whenever they arise will be settled in accordance with the conciliation procedures that have been adopted and that are now being adopted by both sides of this chamber. I believe that that is the only way by which this problem can be solved. I hope the court will never hear a case. It is a great hope, maybe a vain hope, but let it be the wish of all of us. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-This is the third time that this Bill has been before this Parliament and before this House. It falls to my lot once more to state the Opposition's attitude. I say categorically that the Opposition's attitude has not changed one bit. The Opposition is as opposed to this Bill as it was when it was first introduced into this House. It is opposed to it on the basis of deep seated principle. One thing is clear: This Bill is as offensive in principle as it was when it was first introduced. I do not want to repeat the arguments that have been put many times in this House by members on this side of the House. But I think that it is important to note at the outset that the BUI is somewhat antiquated. It has been introduced so often into this House that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has forgotten to bring it up to date. But, of course, we know why he has forgotten to bring it up to date. It is because he thought the Opposition would oppose it and because the Government hopes that it will be a double dissolution measure. What a double dissolution measure this would be. It is a measure that, if it ever becomes law, presumably win refer to the Matrimonial Causes Act of 1959. It does not, of course, refer to the Family Law Act which has recently passed this Parliament. It does not refer to the fact that a Family Law Court has been established. When one analyses this BUI, one finds that it is completely out of keeping with the reality of the legislation that has passed this Parliament. 
For instance, it proposes for the Chief Justice a salary of $31,450. That salary of $31,450 would not attract a district court judge in New South Wales at this stage. We know that the salaries which are being offered to supreme court judges are well in excess of $3 1,450. Of course, I am not trying to laugh the BUI out of the Parliament. It is just a fact that the Government has not brought it up to date. This underscores one basic fact, namely, that there are some aspects in relation to which section 57 of the Constitution ceases to have effect. I suggest that the Attorney-General have a fresh look at section 57 to see whether it can appropriately apply to a BUI that no longer in many respects has relevance. 
I want to consider for a moment why it was that the Superior Court was first conceived. A great deal has been made of the point that this idea was first conceived by  Sir Garfield  Barwick, now the Chief Justice of the High Court. Subsequently a BUI was introduced by  Mr Nigel  Bowen, now the Chief Judge in Equity in New South Wales. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the present Attorney-General, and the previous Attorney-General have referred from time to time to the fact that this BUI has had the support of these eminent parliamentarians and judges. It is significant to look at what the present Chief Justice said about the Superior Court. He said: 
My own basic objective in proposing a new Federal Superior Court was to free the High Court of Australia as of this time but particularly for the future for the discharge of its fundamental duties as interpreter of the Constitution and as the national court of appeal untrammelled by some appellate and much original jurisdiction with which it need not be concerned. 
That is an article that the Federal Law Review published in 1964- Volume 1, Federal Law Reports. 
The reason expounded by the Chief Justice for this court was that it would take away the workload of the original jurisdiction of the High Court. That basic reason has long since disappeared because the original jurisdiction of the High Court has now been passed on to the Supreme Courts of the States to a very large degree. Honourable members Will recall that some time ago this Parliament put through an amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act which gave the taxation jurisdiction to the Supreme Courts of the States. Now justices like  Mr Justice  Bowen, for instance, in New South Wales are exercising what was originally the jurisdiction given to the High Court- the original jurisdiction. The workload of the High Court in relation to original jurisdiction matters, like taxation, has now been relieved. Therefore the original reason for the Superior Court has completely disappeared and it is only now and again that one will find in the High Court lists matters of original jurisdiction- a matter, for instance, referred there recently by the other House and currently being heard; matters where litigants wish to bring proceedings against the Commonwealth and where the jurisdiction cannot be taken from the High Court. 
So let us understand that the basic reason for the Superior Court, as originally conceived, has gone. Let us have no more of these statements by the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General and others that this was a court that was conceived and supported by the previous Government, by the Chief Justice or by  Mr Justice  Bowen. The real solution in this matter is not to proceed with this court but to attempt basic constitutional reform of the judicature chapter of the Constitution and in the meantime, I suggest, to use what has been referred to by  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell, for instance, in an article that he had published in the Federal Law Review, as the autochthonous expedient- the use of the State courts as repositories of Federal jurisdiction. 
The real problem that we face is not a need for another set of courts. Indeed, we have enough already to confuse our people- courts differently named, courts with different jurisdiction, courts at Federal level, State level and Territory level. What could be more confusing to our people than this wide variety of courts? What could be more expensive to our people than this wide variety of courts? We in this Parliament ought to be engaged in modernising our judicial system, and this cannot be achieved until we have undertaken a far-reaching reform of chapter III of the Constitution. Let us ask what are the basic components of a just yet efficient judicial system. First of all, an independent judiciary. There is no need at all to dwell on that because that would be accepted by all of us- an independent judiciary. Second, a competent judiciary able to deal with the cases before it. Sometimes it is - necessary to have a special judge to deal with particular matters. That can be so in relation to family law. It can be so in relation to patents. It may be so in relation to other areas of jurisdiction. The second requirement is a competent judiciary. 
The third thing that is needed is a minimum of technicality. It is an affront to our judicial system that time and costs can still be taken up in arguing useless questions of jurisdiction. Time and again the time of the courts and the costs of litigants are eaten up by argument over jurisdiction in our courts- questions of Federal and State jurisdiction, questions relating to the writs of mandamus and certiorari and the like, questions asking whether this is judicial or adminstrative power that is being exercised. So what we want is a judicial system that has a minimum of technicality. Again we need a judicial system where the individual should be able to have all aspects of a particular problem dealt with by the one court. The very basis of our system of law is the supremacy of law. How can we have supremacy of law in a system where we go to a court and the court has to say: 'We cannot answer your problem because we do not have jurisdiction to deal with this aspect of it'? A court is not a court of law unless it can enforce all the law that is relevant to the problem of the citizen. So what we need is a court which exercises the supremacy of the law in all its areas- State, Federal and territorial. 
Again the court should be physically and financially accessible. It should be physically accessible because it is an impossible dream for this Parliament or this Government to believe that it can establish a Federal court in all the main country centres of this country of ours. It is impossible to conceive of Federal courts sitting at remote places in the States. What we need is a set of courts which are physically accessible to our people. We have such a set of courts which can be the basis of a new judicial system. That set of courts is, of course, the State courts and they are there ready to use, accessible to our people. Also the courts should be financially accessible. Much has been done already in the field of legal aid, and I will leave that aside. So far as practicable all courts should follow the same procedures. There should be a proper system of appeals ensuring a hierarchy of courts. There should be a proper appellate system which contains at least 2 appeals for people to test- certainly one as of right. I believe that the judiciary should make its own contribution to law reform in this country and there should be a means through which the judiciary can make that contribution. 
Last, we should have a national judicial system. For my part, I support the idea that appeals to the Privy Council should be abolished. I support its being done in the proper and appropriate way. Those are the aspects of a judicial system that we should be seeking to achieve in this country to make it efficient and to make it just. If we examine the history and interpretation of chapter III of the Constitution we will find that it offends in many respects. For certain we have a strong, capable and independent judiciary. But that is not because of chapter III of our Constitution; it is despite it. It is because of the individual capacity of the judges who sit on our High Court and on our other courts. It is a known fact that the High Court is regarded as having the competence of courts such as the Privy Council, the House of Lords and the United States Supreme Court. But that is more the accident and not the result of chapter III. 
A quick analysis will indicate the constricting effect of chapter III of our Constitution. First of all, section 72 preserves life tenure. The High Court in Alexander's case determined that many years ago, and it is quite unlikely that that decision will be upset. In other words, every judge has to be appointed for life. One instance that can be given is this: If jurisdiction under chapter III were given to a person of the nature of a magistrate and it happened to be the judicial power of the Commonwealth, that jurisdiction would have to be given to a magistrate who was appointed for life. 
Debate interrupted. 
I rise to speak as the member for Wentworth. Edgecliff is right in the heart of my electorate. I rise to support the motion. I am sure that a new telephone exchange will be greatly welcomed by my electorate. The matter in queston was even the subject of an environment impact inquiry, which took place in the Woollahra Municipal Council chambers recently The report was favourable in all respects. I have no hesitation in supporting the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-When the debate was adjourned last evening I was referring to various aspects of Chapter III of the Constitution. Indeed, they were various unsatisfactory aspects of Chapter III of the Constitution. I was referring to the fact that section 72 of the Constitution requires justices and others who exercise Federal jurisdiction to be appointed for life. I instanced the case of a magistrate who was exercising what we call Federal judicial power. He has to be appointed for life. In making this criticism, I am not being critical of justices who are over the age of 70 years, 72 years or whatever it may be. I am simply drawing attention to the fact that there are occasions when the judicial power of the Commonwealth ought to be exercised by judges who have a limited tenure as judges. 
The next aspect of Chapter III to which I wanted to refer is that it retains a dual court system. That is to say, it retains a Federal and State jurisdiction system- 2 courts. So in the Federal courts of this country the only justice that can be administered is Federal justice and not State justice or justice in every sense of the word. That is a fault in our judicial system. It is not possible to enforce all the law in Federal courts. It is a defect that we ought to be prepared to face up to and to get rid of. We can do it only by constitutional amendment. As interpreted, Chapter III of the Constitution confines the courts to the exercise of judicial power. That is to say that they cannot exercise what is called administrative power. 
Honourable members are well familiar with the boilermakers case and with the weaknesses and problems that that case has created. They may not be so familiar, however, with cases such as Kotsis v. Kotsis in which it was held that the prothonotaries and masters of State courts and, indeed, the prothonotary and Registrar or master of the High Court cannot exercise any part of the judicial power because they are not appointed for life. They are not judges or justices and therefore those ancillary matters such as dealing with particulars cannot be dealt with other than by judges or justices under Chapter  in  of the Constitution. This is a matter of great inconvenience. It means, for instance, that in a State court when the question of particulars in relation to a case against the Commonwealth comes up it has to be dealt with by a judge and not by the master of the court. This is another instance of a defect in Chapter III of our Constitution. 
Again, it inhibits the development of a satisfactory appellate system. The workload in the High Court will inevitably lead to its being a court whose jurisdiction can be invoked largely only by leave. The High Court consists of 7 justices. Some people have talked about increasing the number of justices in our High Court. I believe that this is not a satisfactory answer. The High Court cannot sit in divisions and it is not desirable for it to sit in divisions. It is therefore of no assistance to have more than 7 justices. It is difficult enough to find 7 competent, able justices in our population as it is. The High Court should have the primary function of dealing with constitutional matters. I believe that ultimately there will be a need for another general appellate court in Australia. Already in the United States of America they are starting to think of a remanent court to the United States Supreme Court because that court is unable to deal with the volume of business that it has. To have a case heard before the United States Supreme Court it must be by leave. A great sieving operation occurs between the court from which the appeal goes and the United States Supreme Court. In that country the Solicitor-General himself can file a document which causes an appeal not to go on. But I believe that in this country ultimately there may well be a need for a general appellate court standing between the High Court and the State courts. This can be achieved only by an amendment to Chapter III of the Constitution. 
It is possible to vest, as this Bill does, appellate jurisdiction in a Federal court, but that can be vested in that court only in Federal matters. Under Chapter III of the Constitution a general appellate court cannot be created for the country. Again, Chapter III prevents the exercise of an advisory jurisdiction. Because of the interpretation which has been given to judicial power since the early 1920s, the fact is that the High Court has restricted its judgments to matters, that is, to matters involving the decision about rights, duties, liabilities or the obligations of the parties. So again, in my view, Chapter III is defective because I believe the High Court ought to have an advisory jurisdiction available not only to the Australian Government but also to the State governments.  (Quorum formed) 
Now that all the Labor members have come into listen to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who will shortly follow me in this debate, I hope that they will stay, because we are talking about the Superior Court and they have been thinking about the Superior Court for many years. I am suggesting to honourable members that it is time they abandoned the Superior Court project and gave consideration to seeking an amendment of the Constitution to make sure that we have one set of courts in this country- one national set of courts. I am in the course of dealing with that proposal. 
The matter was first raised by that very eminent jurist,  Sir Owen  Dixon, as far back as 1935. He said this: 
The basis of the system is the supremacy of the law. The Courts administering the law should all derive an independent existence and authority from the Constitution. Some practical difficulties would occur in carrying such a principle beyond the superior Courts, but it is not easy to see why the entire system of superior Courts should not have been organised and erected under the Constitution to administer the total content of the law. No doubt, some financial provisions would be required for levying upon the various Governments contributions to the cost of administering justice. 
That was a statement by  Sir Owen  Dixon in 1935. I believe that the Government should abandon its plans for the Superior Court. I indicated last night that the Superior Court Bill is now defective in very serious respects, and for that reason it ought to be abandoned as a double dissolution measure, as it is undoubtedly intended to be. But a greater reason than that is that it is introducing into our system another set of courts- another divisive set of courts. There are obvious steps that can be taken in order to amend chapter III with the goodwill of this Parliament and of the parliaments of the States. I hope that the Prime Minister will go back to the Constitutional Convention. There we could move an amendment to chapter III of the Constitution to establish one hierarchy of courts in Aus.tralia one system- and not two or three systems of courts. 
We could abolish the differences between State, Federal and Territory jurisdiction which have bedevilled our courts since Federation. We could amend the Constitution to enable justices, judges and magistrates to be appointed to a limited age, to enable specialist judges to be appointed, for instance for a family court, to a specific age. We could provide and retain the system of appointments. There is no need to alter the system whereby State judges are appointed by State governments and High Court judges or Federal judges are appointed by the Federal Government. There would be no need to do that. On the other hand, there may be something to be said for a system which would establish a judicial commission to recommend appointments to governments in relation to the judiciary. This is another amendment of chapter III of the Constitution that ought to be considered. In that context, I believe that the States would readily abandon appeals to the Privy Council, so we would achieve the object of a national courts system. 
Another matter that needs careful consideration is the establishment of a separate judicial administration in this country. For many years consideration has been given to enabling the High Court and other Federal courts to administer themselves. There is absolutely no reason why the judges should not have their own judicial administration. Within that administration all judges should be able to take part in a conference system. I believe that the judges ought to be able to make their own contribution to law reform. Judges ought to be able to indicate amendments of the law which they think appropriate where they are administering the law and enforcing it in the courts. They are in a fit and proper situation to do that very thing. Provision ought to be made within the constitutional framework for the establishment of a judicial administration- a judicial conference- that would enable judges to participate in law reform in this country. Within this system there could be courts to deal with special matters- for instance, family law, patents and the like- which may require the activities of specialist judges, but all in a courts system which gets rid of this bedevilling situation of a division between State and Federal jurisdiction and between State and Federal courts. 
Then we ought to have an amendment to the Constitution that would enable a flexible appellate structure to be created- indeed a new appellate court of the type I mentioned earlier. I believe that a unified system of courts if much better for this country. I stand on that principle. That is why I oppose the proposal for a Superior Court. That is why the Opposition opposes it and that is why I personally will continue to oppose it. It would be a most divisive addition to the system of government in this country. 
-Today is a very important day. It is World Environment Day. It is 5 June. It is also the day when the Stockholm environmental conference began in 1972. I hope that it is also the day when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  abandons any thought of removing  Dr Cass  as Minister for Environment. Nobody else on the other side of the chamber has shown more competence to do this task. I know that sometimes the words of friends can be the kiss of death, but I hope they are not on this occasion. 
Obviously this is a very significant Bill, but particular clauses have a particular significance. The aim of the Bill is to preserve the marine environment. Clause 65 provides:  . . . this Act applies, according to its tenor, to all persons, including foreigners, and to all vessels and aircraft, including foreign vessels and aircraft, whether or not they are within the limits of Australia and the Australian coastal sea. 
It then proceeds: 
This Act has effect subject to the obligations of Australia under international law, including obligations under any agreement between Australia and another country or countries. 
This Bill, as did the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill, seeks to embrace a great deal of Commonwealth power, but basically it has to depend on the external affairs power and on the convention on the continental shelf. That of course enables Australia, as a sovereign state, to explore and exploit the national resources of the continental shelf. That power is given to Australia as a sovereign nation for the purpose of exploring and exploiting the shelf, and with it goes that degree of sovereignty that is necessary. However one cannot consider that without also considering the effect of the convention on the high seas, which provides that, the high seas being open to all nations, no state may validly purport to subject any part of them to its sovereignty. Of course the high seas are that area beyond the 3-mile limit. 
One of the questions that has to be considered in relation to this measure and particularly clause 65 is whether it bases itself soundly in constitutional power, because it would be tragic if Australia and this Parliament had no power to control the marine environment of the Great Barrier Reef. It is a matter that has given me some concern. I expressed it in relation to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill, which the Opposition supported wholeheartedly and to which I have given some thought since it was debated here. As I raised a doubt then, I want to say now that it does seem to me that there is sufficient power to be gleaned from the continental shelf convention in order to support this measure. 
The Prime Minister naturally says: 'Hear, hear! ' At the same time, however, the Bill purports to have an effect which might to some seem to be an assertion of sovereignty over a wide area of the high seas. Clause 65 says that the legislation applies to foreign vessels as well as vessels flying the Australian flag. Of course jurisdiction under the high seas convention can only be exercised usually over our own vessels and not over foreign vessels. We can exercise the right of hot pursuit out of the 3-mile territorial zone over foreign vessels. Clause 65 (1) might appear to go beyond power. However clause 65 (2) says this: 
This Act has effect subject to the obligations of Australia under international law - 
That is the draftsman's means of ensuring the validity of this measure. 
-However-and I do not want to disappoint the Prime Minister- clause 66, with which we are also dealing, gives a very wide regulation-making power. I think it is true to say- and again the Prime Minister will say: 'Hear, hear!'- that this is the first measure perhaps anywhere in the world to establish by legislation a marine park. I have not been able to find any other piece of similar legislation. There may be some. Because it attempts to assert or seems to assert a great deal of control but yet subjects it to the obligations under international law there is, I suggest, a grave burden on the draftsman drafting the regulations to ensure that he stays within power. The reason I rise on this matter is merely to highlight the fact that that situation exists and that the draftsman might give attention to this most difficult problem- first of all the situation as to foreign vessels vis-a-vis our own vessels, and secondly the extent of power under the continental shelf convention, which relates to exploitation and conservation of natural resources. Coral, of course, is a living thing and therefore it is part of the natural resources of the seabed and therefore should fall within the relevant article of the convention on the continental shelf. However those steps that are taken in order to protect it have to be related to that very matter. 
Clause 66 provides that regulations may be made, for instance, providing for the removal of vessels from places in the Marine Park where they have been left in contravention of the regulations or have been abandoned, and for the impounding of such vessels. One honourable member has already referred to the rights of fisheries in these areas. Fishermen's rights have to be taken into account. The right of movement over the high seas has to be taken into account, and therefore what might seem on the face of it a very wide regulation-making power, in order to stay within validity, should be read down so that the measures that are taken are clearly relevant to the protection and the conservation of the marine environment concerned. My only point- I hope it is not regarded as pedantic- is to signal that fact, because the Bill does give the impression on the face of it that Australia is attempting to assert sovereignty over a very wide area of the continental shelf and of the high seas. Of the former, it may well do because of the convention; of the latter it cannot because of the convention on the high seas. 
I wish to refer to one other matter. In case there be any doubt I suggest that one of our efforts in the law of the sea discussions should be to achieve a situation where coastal States have either a right or an obligation to preserve the marine environment around their shores, not unrealistically and not without regard to the rights of fishermen, traditional or otherwise, but having regard to the fact that it is part of the heritage of Australia and indeed of the world beyond. To date there is no such provision in the continental shelf convention. There are provisions relating to pollution of the seas from oil and the like, and from radio active wastes. These provisions we relied on in the nuclear test case. But there is no provision of the nature that I have just mentioned. I would suggest that as a means of asserting the obligations of nations as well as assisting the powers of this Parliament it would be helpful in a future convention on the continental shelf to find such a power to exist. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I abstained from the second reading debate on this matter so that this debate might go through quickly. I wish to say something about clause 5 (2) (a) which states: 
The Ombudsman is not authorized to investigate- 
Action taken by a Minister; 
Even though an amendment has not been proposed I want to suggest to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  that, having in mind the history of discretions under Commonwealth law and the fact that many administrative discretions are given to Ministers, there is a strong case for doing one of two things: Either including amongst those discretions which the ombudsman can look at, certain of the discretions of Ministers that are administrative, or alternatively, carrying out a thorough investigation of the Commonwealth law in order to sort out from the discretions of Ministers those which are matters of policy and those which are matters of administration 
Unfortunately, I think this Parliament fell into . the habit over a large number of years of giving administrative discretions to Ministers- discretions which could just as well have been given to officials. At the same time, of course, many discretions which are matters of policy have been given to Ministers. As the Kerr Committee and the Bland Committee pointed out, Ministerial discretions which relate to policy ought not, in the ordinary course, be the subject of either administrative review or Ombudsman review, nor for that matter unlikely to be, except in narrow cases, matters of judicial review. I should like to instance this by referring the Attorney-General to the Schedules to the Bland Committee report. 
In Appendix 2 to that report there are some discretions which total I think over one hundred and forty. These are administrative discretions under statutes and regulations without any provision for review for which a review process should be considered. We considered these in relation to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill which this day it is hoped will pass through this House. But, in the course of that consideration, some of those discretions were taken out for the purpose of making them the subject of review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Of those mentioned by the Bland Committee- as I say, there were over one hundred and forty -at least sixty-one as I counted them are discretions vested in Ministers. Therefore they are appropriate for administrative review. I suggest that they are also appropriate for review by an ombudsman. 
If we are to do complete justice to the ombudsman process, as well as the administrative appeal process, and if we are to make the ombudsman a person who is established for the specific purpose of being the representative of the public in looking at discretions of a particular quality or character, then those discretions which are vested in Ministers and are administrative in nature ought also to be subject to consideration by an ombudsman. Otherwise there is no reason to make the decision in justice. The ordinary member of the public would not be able to understand the distinction. Of course the best thing to do is to take these discretions away from Ministers and give them to officials. But if the Government will not do that, I suggest that at least it ought to bring in an amendment at some stage, having considered this point, which would have the effect of putting in a schedule the particular discretions and making them subject to consideration by the ombudsman. 
-Some of the evidence which the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  wants comes from his own pen. He has witter! this: 
The Australian Government's international reputation as a prime borrower is such that it does not need to use any form of intermediary. In the past it has always confined overseas loan negotiations to dealing directly with principals; leading financial institutions in overseas capital markets. 
This debate raises a question which man has constantly had to face. It is simply this: Do the ends justify the means? It is not about goals in themselves but the means adopted to achieve them. It is not about our need for energy and the ownership of our resources but whether that need has been pursued with honesty and integrity. It is not about the Government's desire to do its best for our people. In a sense it is not about unorthodox loan raisings. It is about whether the Government has acted in a way which commands respect and support at home and abroad. It is about honesty and integrity in Government. Nor is it a contest between the Press and the Government or even between the Opposition and the Government. It is a plain question whether our people, those who have supported this Government and those who have not, can go on believing that the men who lead it- particularly its Prime Minister- are men of integrity. That question hangs there. The Opposition did not raise it. The Government raised it. By its own actions the Government raised it. For its own sake and for the sake of our country the Government dare not fail to answer it. 
It is my firm belief, notwithstanding what we have heard today, that the questions which arise can be answered only by a full, open judicial inquiry. The Government can shout, it can rave and protest its honesty, but out of its own mouth it has today established a prima facie case against itself of deceitful conduct. It was inevitable that this debate would centre around the Executive Council decision of 13 December last. Indeed, whenever unfortunate events occur an explanation of the misfortune is likely to be found in the circumstances that set them off. The consideration of the tragic dismissal of  Dr Cairns  therefore leads unavoidably to an analysis of the events of December. On the other hand, if a basic supervening event has involved deceit, fabrication and deviousness, that same deceit, fabrication and deviousness are likely to be found in the events which flow from it. 
O what a tangled web we weave, When first we practise to deceive! 
Deceit, fabrication and falsity have all appeared in the events which flowed from the decision to seek overseas funds in this illegal and unconstitutional manner. The fact is that the seed bed for whatever fabrication and deceit has occurredwho knows if all has yet been revealed- was laid and watered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his gaggle of Ministers when they met on 13 December 1974. Since that time injustice and deviousness have also appeared. 
I refer particularly to the dismissal of  Dr Cairns  as Treasurer early in June. I could never understand why he should have been dismissed as Treasurer. He had authority to raise funds totalling $250m. He only asked somebody to make inquiries for him, to put together a proposition. I cannot believe that these events alone justified the Prime Minister's actions.  His  real reasons for dismissing him must have been otherwise. I believe that in this respect the Prime Minister was less than frank. He was devious.  Dr Cairns  says that he was destroyed by the Press. The fact is that he was destroyed by his own Prime Minister, not by the Press. He knows it and so does every honourable member op- .posite know it. I hope that they will stand up for decency next Monday when the matter comes before their Caucus. 
The main issue here is the events of 13 December 1974 and those leading up to them. In considering these matters it is important to bear in mind these incontravertible matters: The Government could not in the circumstances borrow funds without the consent of the Loan Council unless its borrowing fell within certain exceptions. The only relevant exception was that the funds were required for temporary purposes. The reason for inserting in the Executive Council minute that the borrowing was for temporary purposes could surely only have been to avoid the necessity of going to the Loan Council. It is difficult to give any credence whatsoever to any suggestion that it was ever intended to seek the approval of the Loan Council. I am afraid that I cannot accept what the Prime Minister has said today about going to the Loan council for approval. 
The draft acceptance document that has been produced gives the lie to it. The draft acceptance document has nothing in it about Loan Council approval. It has a lot in it about what the Swiss people were going to do and whether there were any conditions that they would lay down about the loan, but not a word about the Loan Council. The proposal was that that would be the draft acceptance and that a promissory note would be signed. There is no doubt about it. I believe that it is deceitful to come before this Parliament and try to tell us and the Australian people that the Government intended to get Loan Council approval. The Government intended no such thing. Further the Financial Agreement is the supreme document of the Constitution. In a sense it stands above the Constitution. I do not want to refer to the terms of it. They have already been referred to. But the fact is that the Financial Agreement in its own way does stand above the constitution. It is the supreme document in this land and every Minister opposite knows it, and none better than the Prime Minister. 
The procedures for obtaining funds overseas were well known and practised. Officers of the Treasury and the Attorney-General's Department are well versed in these procedures. They are known to the Ministers involved and borrowing has traditionally been the function of the Treasury. Never before has anybody heard of a department such as Minerals and Energy or the former Department of National Development borrowing funds of $4,000m or anything like that amount. Indeed I have not heard of any other department doing it. This was a complete and utter departure. 
The phrase 'for temporary purposes' could not, on any view, include borrowings totalling $4 billion for 20 years to be used for energy purposes. In the context of the agreement, 'temporary' must mean 'to meet a passing need '. In practice it may have been interpreted by the parties as being 'for a period under 12 months'. In my opinion no honest lawyer could express the view that this borrowing was for temporary purposes. 
The documents that have been produced today and the speeches have made all this abundantly clear. The moneys in question were to be lodged in a bank, apparently overseas, until they were needed. Then they were to be brought back into this Commonwealth and used for long term purposes. Temporary purposes; what nonsense! 
The then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  said in a speech which was circulated as a Press release: 
Australia should, I suggest, carefully preserve its reputation as a steady arid  cautious  borrower on official account. There is no need and ho case for Australia joining any mad rush to borrow petro-dollars abroad at any price. 
The prudent .Minister was there, but his advice was rejected. He was dismissed 2 days before this unfortunate event. Those are the vital matters to bear in mind. There are others which appear from, documents and circumstances which are equally vital to an understanding of the minute of 13 December. Khemlani had been in direct contact with  Mr Connor  and  Sir Lenox  Hewitt from 12 November at the latest.  His  task was to confirm the availability of funds. It was not different in substance from  Mr Harris's  task. I thoroughly agree with what  Mr Harders  said. Khemlani must have been on some arrangement for commission or other remuneration. I wonder today what it was. It is said in this draft acceptance that the great amount of $ 100m was to be deducted at the source, instead of being appropriated out of Consolidated Revenue. That was another unlawful act, another act unheard of. If a man was to be paid commission for performing services for the Commonwealth it should have come out of Consolidated Revenue. But this was not the case. It was to come out at the source. The Government asked for instances of unlawful and illegal acts. That is another unlawful act. That money should have come out of Consolidated Revenue. 
This Government has shown a preparedness in this event to trample over the Constitution. The main reason why we need national disaster insurance in this country is that we have 2 unguided missiles, a combination of  Mr Connor  and  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. They are causing disaster to this country, and the sooner honourable members opposite get rid of them the better they will be and the better we will be. There is no suggestion that officials from the Treasury and the Attorney-General's Department became involved in this matter until late in the time scale. It also seems clear that any documents produced by Khemlani were not signed. There is one other matter. The Government's momentous financial problems were upon it. Honourable members remember the events of November. They will remember how close the Government got to the brink and how worried Government supporters were. They knew that they could not finance their energy programs out of the consolidated revenue of this country. They were in a position in which they had to get funds from overseas in order to carry out the program. I honestly believe that is the reason this position came about. 
Let us have a look at this document J itself, this farrago of fact and falsity. Of course, honourable members remember a royal commission when there was a document J. This document states that the Minister for Minerals and Energy is authorised to borrow for temporary purposes. I have already dealt with that. What utter and complete nonsense it is to say 'for temporary purposed'. How can it be said that the loan is. for temporary purposes. Then we have the situation that for some special reason a promissory note is mentioned. Why not a guarantee? The promissory note is referred to because it was about to be signed and because the Minister for Minerals and Energy had no intention of this matter going to the Loan Council. This document was in the course of preparation. The Loan Council, be damned! There was no intention ever to take the matter before the Loan Council and it is a complete and utter he - 
-I am looking on the bright side and the bright side is not very far off, I can assure the honourable member. What do we find when we look at this explanatory memorandum? There is nothing about moneys being deposited overseas. There is nothing about the sole purpose of the loan being for matters related to energy. What do we find? We find ten or 1 5 lines of falsity; that is what we find. We find it is stated that the loan is for temporary purposes and the exigencies arising out of the current world situation, the international energy crisis, to strengthen Australia's external financial position, to provide immediate protection for Australia in regard to the supply of minerals and energy, and to deal with current and immediate foreseeable unemployment in Australia. This is a series of propositions which have been hardly mentioned in the Parliament today. It is a series of propositions which reveal the falsity of the document 's contents. This document went before  His Excellency  the Governor-General. I will say more about that in a moment. 
Why was it that this Executive Council Minute approved a borrowing of $4,000m for temporary purposes when the borrowing was known to be and was intended to be a long-term borrowing for long-term purposes? How did the GovernorGeneral come to approve a resolution for such temporary purposes when the borrowing was for indefinite purposes? What was the reaction of the Treasury? It is unlikely that  Sir Frederick  Wheeler would agree to this proposition. No wonder he did not want his name on this document.  Mr Connor  says he asked why the Treasury's name was not on the document.  Sir Frederick  Wheeler was not stupid enough to associate his Department with this document J, this farrago of fact and falsity. He was not so stupid in a day. He knows what is proper in terms of a government seeking loans overseas. I cannot believe that  Sir Frederick  Wheeler would approve of such a document or would fail to draw attention to the problems of the financialMr Keating-  Mr Speaker,  I rise to order. The point of order I take is a serious one. The Standing Orders state that honourable members are not to cast aspersions on the judiciary or the Governor-General. The honourable member for Wentworth has said that the Governor-General was party to an illegal act. 
-My reason for rising in this debate is somewhat unusual. I have risen not to speak on the measure but to explain that I shall abstain from voting on this Bill if a division takes place. I want simply to explain to the House my reason for doing so. As the Prime Minister (Mr.Whitlam) said in his second reading speech, this measure has been introduced for the third time in 2 years, and 2 years ago I was the Solicitor-General. This measure was settled by me as Solicitor-General and I took part in negotiations with the British Government in relation to it. In the circumstances I think it is proper that I should abstain from voting on the measure. I say that to explain my reasons to both sides of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I rise to support amendment No. 4 which apparently the Government is opposing. When the Kerr Committee considered the office of ombudsman it came up with an office called the General Counsel for Grievances. That General Counsel was recommended on the basis that he would operate in an administrative or executive context. Now the Government in its wisdom has chosen not to follow that course and has rather seen the ombudsman- really, the General Counsel for Grievances was just another name for a type of ombudsman- as a person operating in the parliamentary role. Therefore it is tremendously important that if he is to operate in this parliamentary context he should be a person in whom the Parliament has confidence. In a sense, although he is not an officer of the Parliament he is a person who should have the respect of Parliament. Parliament should feel that he is well and truly part of the role of Parliament, inquiring into the actions of the Executive. 
If that is so, that is a very good reason for either having the ombudsman appointed by Parliament or having his appointment approved by Parliament. It is on that basis that the Opposition has approached the matter. When this matter was dealt with by the Bland Committee it described the qualities of an ombudsman in these rather broad terms: 
Finding the right man for the Ombudsman post could well prove even more difficult than drawing the legislation constituting his office and detailing his powers and functions. He must not see himself as the scourge of departments, a super administrator or a super censor, nor attempt to usurp the role of Parliament. Nor imagine himself the donee of some God given capabilities to reach a more 'right' conclusion than that under review. He has no role permitting him to take over the responsibilities of departments; he must never forget that accountability, particularly financial accountability, remains with them and their Ministers nor that political accountability rests with Ministers. While he has a role akin to that of an auditor, he must be on the lookout for means of removing grievances through improved procedures. He will rarely be m a position to halt departmental processes: he will generally deal with matters ex post facto. While his dedication to the protection of the rights of the citizen and the attainment by eligible persons of their entitlements under the law must be indubitable, he can be no policy maker or social reformer in his own cast. 
He must have great humility and be devoid of prejudices and convictions: his role is to draw attention to defects in process and questionable decisions, not to make fresh decisions however much he may prefer alternatives. 
I have taken the trouble to quote that paragraph, not because I agree with it but because I fear that the Government might follow it. If one were to try to find an ombudsman who had all those negative characteristics, I suggest he would be a squib. I am concerned that the Government might take that sort of description of the ombudsman into account when it comes to find the gentleman or the lady to occupy the position. Therefore I suggest that there is every reason to have the ombudsman approved by Parliament not only on the grounds of it being proper in the parliamentary context but also on the need for Parliament to be sure that the person does have the requisite bulldog qualities which are necessary in a true ombudsman. True, he must have tact. It is true that he must have administrative knowledge and capacity. Yet he must stand for the citizen. He must see his role as investigatory and remedial. He must be a person who stands above question and who has the complete confidence of both Houses of Parliament. I strongly urge the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to reconsider the matter. If he does not see fit to approve of the amendment here then I suggest that he give it some further reconsideration before the Bill comes before the Senate. 
I am happy to speak out once again for the people of Tasmania. Understandably the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  has not yet delivered his maiden speech which, according to the traditions of this House, should not be unduly controversial otherwise he too would have participated in this most contentious debate. In the face of the continued refusal of the Minister for 
Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to allow the ship  Wanaka  to be used, it is imperative that this debate proceed as a matter of urgency. The Minister's refusal to allow the ship to be used is only the latest in a series of acts of the Labor Government which have added so substantially to the crippling burden of high costs imposed on the Tasmanian people. When the Minister announced on 23 July that the Australian National Line general freight rates to Tasmania would rise from 1 August, Tasmania was left stunned and demoralised. Was it any wonder that even  Senator O  'Byrne was moved to say that Tasmania was in virtual panic? Was it any wonder that the Tasmanian Acting Premier,  Mr Lowe,  said: 
There now exists a state of war between Tasmania and the Federal Government on this matter. 
Even the State's Labor representatives in this House were at last forced into action. Let me read some reports of their reaction. The honourable member/or Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  described the increase in south bound freight rates as a king hit at Tasmania's economy. In a statement they said: 
It will increase the cost of living in Tasmania disproportionately to people living in mainland States, where freight rates change over road and rail and where only a fraction of items are carried by sea between States. With the ANL moving 75 to 80 per cent of Tasmania's sea cargo, freight increases dramatically affect almost every farmer, importer, retailer and manufacturer who imports raw materials. We believe it is more equitable for ANL's lossesif there are to be losses- to be distributed among all Australian taxpayers. 
I wonder whether we will hear that from them today. I wonder whether they will be prepared to get up in this House and say things like that against the Government. They have the opportunity to do it and I hope that the opportunity to vote on this matter will soon be given to them. We will see then whether they have the courage to cross the floor. 
There were still more shock waves to come. This was not all. By the end of July shipping fares were to rise by 30 per cent and air fares by  179,  per cent. In this whole sorry story the Minister was right about only one thing. We remember what he said. He said that there are more votes in Newcastle than in Tasmania. My word, the people of Tasmania know that now. Honourable members remember how many votes the Minister got in Newcastle- 38 554- but his Party will be lucky to get that many votes in the whole of Tasmania at the next election. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister must come to his point of order. He is not allowed to make a personal explanation. 
The Minister has given 2 answers. He has said that high costs and the frequency of industrial disputes were one reason for the increased freight rates. As to this, it was the Labor Government which said that it would be able to get on with the unions, yet since this Government came into office we have had the greatest period of industrial unrest in Australia's history. Then the Minister had the temerity to say that the Government has done better than the previous Government. He failed to mention to this House that it was in 1959 that the previous Government introduced roll-on roll-off ships on the Tasmanian run through the ANL. As a result freight rates were reduced by 45 per cent. For 1 1 years, from 1959 to 1970, there was no increase. On 1 August 1970 there was an increase, but the question of the increase was immediately referred to a Senate committee. In June 1971 that Senate committee reported and suggested that the matter go to the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
In October 1971 the honourable member for Gippsland, as Minister, referred the matter to the Bureau of Transport Economics. In March 1973, just after this Government came into office, the Government had available to it the value of the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics. That is the record of the previous Government. The present Government was left with a clear indication of the problem. We had the promises of November 1972 to which reference has been made. We had the report of the Bureau. From March 1973 until April 1974 nothing happened. In April 1974 the Nimmo inquiry started. Why was that inquiry set up? It was done in the wake of an election in May 1974. The Government was suddenly stung into action. There was a 25 per cent increase in September 1974 which caused a great furore. The increase was to apply to both northbound and southbound cargo. What happened? The Government interceded in relation to northbound cargo but not in relation to bulk cargo northbound. Early in 1975 the Prime Minister said that he expected the Nimmo report within a few months. Now we are told that we are not going to get it until the end of the year. During the campaign in the Bass by-election the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  claimed that there would be substantial freight rises. What was the report that came back? Official sources in Canberra denied that there would be an increase in ANL freight rates to Tasmania. A spokesman for the Prime Minister had stated that  Mr Fraser  was well wide of the mark. 
Let us have a look at the situation in Tasmania. The effect of this increase is that the cost to Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd of the combined Union Steam Ship company's freight increase which applied from 16 June and the 40 per cent increase of the Australian National Line which has been just announced will be $2. 15m a year. The company is incurring considerable additional costs because of a backlog of 20 000 tonnes of cargo which cannot be shipped and which must be stored. The cost of the 1974-75 freight increases by ANL to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd at Burnie and Wesley Vale is $1.1 2m for outwards cargo; there is no subsidy for northbound freight or bulk or paper products. In addition further costs will be incurred for imports to Tasmania of approximately 12 000 tonnes of raw materials, which will increase the total freight costs to about $1.5m. Exports of paper and paper board to the mainland are therefore seriously hampered by the increased freight charges, and that makes it more difficult for APPM to meet competition from overseas imports which benefit from the fact that the crews which are used on the ships are paid at a lower rate. This directly contradicts the statement made by the Minister for Transport in the House last week. 
Again, the freight increases of the ANL will significantly affect the cost of shipping of 20 000 tonnes of concentrates to Port Kembla by Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company. It will affect the import of heavy machinery and spare parts from other States. Other mining companies such as Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd at Rosebery and Renison Bell will also be adversely affected. Tyoxide Australia Pty Ltd will have to pay $250,000 a year more for imports of scrap steel, soda ash and machinery and spare parts. The cost of general cargo imports by Comalco Ltd will increase by $78,000 a year. Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd imports twothirds of its packing materials. It imports glucose from Sydney and dried fruit from Melbourne. 
I could go on and give more and more facts about this. But what is the net effect of these things on the Tasmanian people? The effect is an increase in unemployment in Tasmania, an increase in the cost of living, further difficulties for some manufacturing industries to continue, and great difficulties in inducing new manufacturing industries to locate in Tasmania. They are the costs to the Tasmanian people. This Government has promised to do something about the situation. It is no answer to go back and rake over old ground. The people of Tasmania want this Government to take action. They want the Government to fulfil its promise, which was to do something about the situation. There has been no attempt, as far as we know, to try to stir up the Nimmo Committee in presenting its report. Yet from day to day the evidence which is given before that Committee shows the effects on the Tasmanian people of this Government's actions. When is the Government going to act in relation to the dreadful state of affairs we find in Tasmania? When are Government members going to stand and be counted? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In the light of his recent promises, will the Minister inform the House when the Government proposes to introduce the Aboriginal land rights legislation? Has the legislation been delayed? If so, what is the reason for the delay? Is the Minister aware that Aboriginal communities, members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and others are anxious to consider the legislation before it is debated in this Parliament? Will the Minister undertake that time will be given to interested parties to consider the legislation and to make representations before it is debated? 
-As shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs I have the unenviable task of dealing with the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in 10 minutes. However, I shall do my best to cover the field. The increase in departmental appropriations under this Budget runs from $109m to $ 142.7m, an increase of 30 per cent. The increase in the total appropriations for Aboriginal Affairs runs from $ 158.443m to $192m. This is an increase of approximately 20 per cent. It is worthy of note that that is less than the total increase in expenditure by the Government; that is, 23 per cent. So the actual increase on expenditure in relation to Aboriginal affairs over the whole range is 3 per cent less than the total increase envisaged by the Government. 
The next thing to note is that not all the funds expended on Aboriginal affairs are expended by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Other departments have their say- the Departments of Education, Health, Housing and Construction, Northern Territory, and Urban and Regional Development. These departments between them expend an amount of approximately $50m. In this fact alone lie the seeds of many of the problems which can arise- an overlapping of functions, a lack of co-ordination, misunderstanding between departments, and if I may say so, a likelihood of competition between the departments. As one has more to do with Aboriginal affairs one finds these factors emerging: Overlap, lack of co-ordination, misunderstanding and competition. Of course this leads and can only lead to waste and inefficiency, and in the end it leads to disillusionment amongst the Aboriginal people. 
One of the most significant matters for the government of the day to attend to is getting the co-ordination of expenditure going in relation to Aboriginal affairs. In recent years considerable concern has been expressed about expenditures in this Department. It is to be hoped that it is now using and recommending proper procedures. There can be no more damaging fact to the administration of Aboriginal affairs than waste and inefficiency in administration. There is a growing feeling amongst some that Aboriginal people are being too generously treated. I do not share that view. However, waste and inefficiency provide a very powerful argument for those who wish to decry the efforts to assist Aboriginal people. 
During my recent visit to the Northern Territory I detected signs of this condition. I found large quantities of housing material lying idle with no intended use. I found small houses for Aborigines costing over $50,000 each, and I also detected an excessive use of consultants. The fact, of course, is that if there is waste and inefficiency it is not the Aboriginal people who cause it or reap its unjust rewards; it is the administrators, consultants and others who are living off the Aboriginal vote. I believe that in the light of past events the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  has a very special responsibility not only to this Parliament but also to the Aboriginal people to ensure that no criticism can be levelled as to the manner in which Aboriginal funds are expended. If he fails in this, he will fail as a Minister. Let me give some examples of the type of expenditure needing his consideration. 
In the estimates there are references again to Applied Ecology Pty Ltd. Already several million dollars have been expended on the turtle farming project in which it is involved. There is no indication, of course, in the estimates as to whether the project is giving a return, and certainly one would like some explanation from the Minister as to what is happening. 
On the other hand, in the field of sport and sporting activity we find the sporting appropriation reduced from $496,000 to $220,000. One asks why, when this is such a significant area of 
Aboriginal activity in which Aborigines can mix with the rest of the community. 
An amount of $220,000 has been appropriated for Aboriginal publications. I understand that there are 2 publications-  Aboriginal News  and the  Aboriginal Affairs Monthly.  I have had doubts expressed to me about the quality of these magazines. On the other hand one wonders whether there is a need for two of them. There is a reference to films and television and an amount of $63,000. 1 would like to know what there is to show from the expenditure in the past year in this area. 
There are a number of areas where the Minister should be giving careful consideration to expenditure found in the estimates that we have before the Parliament. Take the hovercraft in the Torres Strait Islands. I have had the joy of having a ride in it, and it is an exciting adventure. However, I understand it is going to cost $200,000 to hire it and maintain it in the ensuing 12 months. The question arises: Is it worth it? Has the Government investigated alternative means of transport such as a helicopter or has it investigated means of transport that can employ Aboriginal labour? It does seem that an analysis of costs should be undertaken in this area to see whether that expenditure of $200,000 is worth while. 
Another thing I notice in the estimates is that a large number of organisations are supported, and one cannot help feeling that there are expenditures in making grants to organisations which overlap in their activities. I assume that the Department is constantly looking at their activities. There is a number of them. I do not want to take time mentioning them, but there is a need to see whether the expenditure which is being undertaken in relation to them does in fact represent an efficient use of funds. I ask the Minister whether the Department is doing this. I appreciate of course one has to appreciate the fact that it is desirable for Aboriginal organisations to be supported. There will necessarily be a degree of overlapping. At the same time if there are bodies which are employing only or mainly white people then it is desirable perhaps that that aspect of the vote be looked at very carefully 
Another general comment which I wish to make relates to the degree to which funds allocated for Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders are being eaten up by administrative expenses and salaries of bureaucrats and middlemen, some of them in private enterprise. At least 13 per cent of the total allocation to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is taken up by departmental salaries and other administrative expenses. Some extremely disturbing comments were made, as honourable members will recall in a special report on rural poverty in northern New South Wales. The report said: 
It has been calculated that in 1967 there was one Aboriginal welfare worker for every 70 Aboriginals. One of us (Lovejoy) has estimated that, if the 1973-74 expenditure on Aboriginal welfare of $1 1 7.4m had been given directly to Aboriginals (estimated to be 140 000), there would have been about $838.00 for every man, woman and child. 
That is, $5852 for each Aboriginal family. 
As happens so often in other spheres of activity, Australia is following the trends in the United States of America and poverty is being professionalised and bureaucratised. In the process, it is becoming a lucrative business- for professional welfare workers, administrators, researchers and consultants. 
The Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, which drew up the report, saw a very strong argument for negative income tax. The 13 per cent is only the tip of the iceberg in respect of administrative costs. Hidden in many of the substantial items in the estimates are further amounts to be expended on administration- for example, in grants to the States, in respect of housing and in grants of $23m to the departments of Education and the Departments of Housing. Those grants hide a great deal of administrative expense. 
The danger therefore is that Aborigines are remaining institutionalised and are being increasingly bureaucratised. The only effective means of giving the Aboriginal people the greatest advantage from the funds made available is by pruning unnecessary procedures and, where possible, cutting down on the need for bureaucrats, middlemen and others who leech upon the Aboriginal allocation. Of course, the consultants in the Northern Territory and in other areas of Aboriginal affairs are also eating into the funds. 
There are other matters to which I would have referred if I had time, such as the increase in staff. I would have asked the Minister why it was necessary to increase staff and how many of the increased number are to be Aborigines. I would have asked about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee whose allocation this year is less than half what it was last year. I would have also asked what the Government was doing about giving the NACC an effective role in government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I want to address some remarks to the enforcement of the Constitution and the law generally in the debate on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. I think it is true to say that the federal system is at as low an ebb today as it has ever been. It has been mentioned constantly in debate in recent days. There seems to be an ideological battle going on aU the time between centralists and State lighters- those who think that all power should be at the centre and those who think that for some reason the States have some inalienable rights.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  this argument has proved to be futile and unproductive and without any benefit to our people. Basically, the blame for this lies at the feet of this Government. No doubt the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will not say 'Hear, hear' now. What we have in this country today is a situation of confrontation, not co-operation. The purpose of the Opposition's policy in federalism is to repair the Federation and to bring back a little bit of sanity and co-operation into it 
It seems to be impossible for any level of government these days to achieve co-operation. The Attorney-General himself should be deeply involved in the upholding of the Constitutionand the Constitution is a federal Constitution. It means a federation. It means there will be States. It means that State powers will exist and Commonwealth powers will exist. It means that there will be a High Court and that the High Court will be an arbiter. When some allege breach of convention, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam),  the Attorney-General and others in the Government are very quick to complain. They have a list of double dissolution Bills that they are continuously piling up. Yet if they are  bona fide  about their attitude to what the Senate is doing they have a ready solution in their hands, and that is to go to the people if they wish. But of course they will not. What they are doing is simply using it as an excuse, all the time abusing the Senate when in reality if there was anything in those Bills that was preventing this Government from governing they could go to the people and have the question decided. 
The general attitude of the Attorney-General and of this Government is one of contempt for the Constitution. There has been a continuous abuse of the States. The Attorney-General takes the view, I think, that if he believes the States do not exist they will suddenly disappear- that if he acts as if they are not there they will disappear. People who dare to go to the High Court and attack legislation are abused. What is the High Court there for if it is not to deal with the question of whether a piece of legislation or an Act of the Government is constitutional? Since I became a member of Parliament, I have been gravely concerned about a number of matters that have occurred where the law officers have been involved. There was an occasion last year when the Builders Labourers Federation delivered threats against builders that if they proceeded with a matter in the High Court the Federation would create industrial trouble. This matter was brought to the attention of the then Attorney-General and he did nothing about it. If ever there was a serious and grave contempt of the High Court, that was it. 
Earlier this year- I have already spoken on it- we had the loans affair, which was a gross contempt of the Constitution and a gross abuse of the fundamental constitutional principle. I said then, and I repeat it, that no honest man could have given the advice that was given on that occasion. Notwithstanding what has happened since, I am in no way convinced that the advice that was given on the night of 13 December was honest advice. Until there is a full inquiry into the matter I particularly will not be convinced. Nor will I be taken aback by the statements of the Prime Minister that he acted on the advice of the Solicitor-General and the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department. I do not believe that there was any such advice. I believe that if it existed it would be produced. 
The third thing, and the latest, is the resort to consitutional anarchy that has been suggested recently. It has been said that an appropriation Bill does not need the assent of the Senate. All I can say to that is: 'What nonsense; what complete nonsense!' I could, of course, refer to what the Attorney-General said; I will not take the time to say it. 
What he said was this: ... the more the situation and the solution I would offer, or the advice I would give, tallies with common sense and that is that an Opposition in an Upper House, an Upper House where the Government does not reside, should not, and indeed it cannot- it can indeed be said that if it does it's constitutionally improper- refuse a money Bill that the Government needs to carry on a Government of the country. 
That is what he said. 
That is what the AttorneyGeneral said. Those are his words, and no lawyer in this country has come to his aid- not Professor Howard, who is an assistant in his Department, not Professor Sawer who is not noted for his conservative views, not  Senator Everett,  not Gareth Evans. Nobody. And where is the SolicitorGeneral's opinion on that matter? I suggest that here again we have not advice which is independent and responsible, and I suggest that the attitude of an Attorney-General in a government and before this Parliament has to be one of independence and responsibility. 
I want to test the Attorney-General with another matter tonight. I refer to the third report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum- a report that has been in the hands of this Government since 19 September 1975. The contents of this document are very serious. The report reveals something just a little more than deceit of a Minister of this Parliament. The report at least reveals that there may have been a breach of the Crimes Act by  Mr Souter  and other directors of ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. I would like the assurance of the Attorney-General tonight that he is causing inquiries to be made into the question whether there has been a breach of section 29a, sub-section (2) of the Crimes Act, or of some other provision of the Crimes Act of a State. The Commonwealth Act provides in that section: 
Any person who, with intent to defraud, by any false pretence, causes any benefit to be given by the Commonwealth to any person, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for 5 years. 
This is a very serious matter. One has only to read some sections of the report to appreciate that fact for example, in paragraph 15.4 of the third report, the Royal Commission states: 
The Commission finds that the directors of ACTU-Solo other than  Mr Hawke,  initiated and carried through a course of conduct designed to mislead and deceive the Minister for Minerals and Energy. As to  Mr Hawke,  the Commission makes no finding. The role played by  Mr Souter  has achieved particular prominence partly because he gave evidence. The Commission finds that although he was not the architect of the scheme he shares equal responsibility with other directors. 
One can go to other paragraphs. For instance, on page 24 of the report, paragraph 1 9.2 states: 
The Commission finds that the letter of 17 June 1975 sent by ACTU-Solo over the signature of  Mr H.  J. Souter to the Minister and the accompanying document in terms of Annexure I misrepresented the price for which the crude was sold and that the Government was critically misinformed. 
I refer next to pages 27 and 28 of this report, just to sew up the argument in terms of what this company hoped to get. I quote paragraph 22.2 of the report in which the Commission states: 
ACTU-Solo stood to gain by securing a supply of motor spirit resulting from the refining of the crude at a price approximately 5.4 cents a gallon cheaper than the average wholesale posted price in Melbourne. 
There are other equally damaging paragraphs in this report. I have already referred to the Crimes Act. There is no need for me to go through it word by word to illustrate how what is revealed in this report is at least a suggestion of  prima facie  evidence against the directors of ACTUSolo Enterprises Pty Ltd. 
I would like to know tonight whether the Government through the Attorney-General- it is the Attorney-General's peculiar responsibilityis entering upon an inquiry as to whether there was any criminal conduct involved in these activities? This matter is not confined to  Mr Souter.  The position of  Mr Hawke  must also be considered. It is suggested in this report that  Mr Hawke  was overseas. Perhaps he was overseas when this was done. The real question is: Was he a party to this matter? Was he aware of it? The fact that he was overseas is no answer. One would hope that the Attorney-General is going to look at the involvement of  Mr Hawke  in this matter. Of course it is hard to believe that a director was not aware of and concerned in decisions on transactions involving the purchase of 420 000 barrels for almost $2m. I would hope very much that  Mr Souter  is not being made a scapegoat in this report for the other directors of ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
-I mean no offence to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  but on a question like this I would have preferred to hear from the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth  (Mr Enderby).  I mentioned this matter in the address I made on the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral's Department and I sought an assurance from the Attorney-General that he would look into this report and see whether any criminal conduct was involved. The reason for that was apparent from an elementary reading of the report because on its face it raised an extremely serious question as to whether criminal conduct was involved; that is to say, whether a person, with intent to defraud, deceived the Government for the purpose of obtaining a benefit for another person. The Attorney-General of the Commonwealth has a clear responsibility, on the face of this report, to look at that matter. It is equally apparent that if the report is accurate no Government could allow ACTU-Solo Enterprises Ltd to have the benefit of this fraud, an allocation in the future of crude oil. 
It is not surprising, however, that since the report was publicised it has come under consistent criticism from  Mr Souter  and others.  Mr Souter  said that he had been maligned and made a scapegoat and that the report was unfair and incorrect. He denied, as he did in evidence, that he ever deceived the Government. He has been supported by  Mr Hawke  and others of the Australian Council of Trade Unions executive. The Government, however, has been firm in its acceptance of this report and shows not the slightest indication of rejecting the Commission's findings. Not unnaturally it suits the Government to make  Mr Souter  the scapegoat for this attempt to subvert the announced Government policy on crude oil purchases. 
The vital question here is not whether ACTUSolo agreed to pay Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd more than the Government agreed price. With respect to those who think otherwise, it clearly was an agreement to pay an additional sum. The royal commission was right on this score. 
The real question here is whether the Government was really deceived and whether the Minister was really deceived. Was the Government, through its Minister, party to an arrangement with the ACTU whereby the Government policy on crude oil would be subverted to the advantage of ACTU-Solo and to the detriment of other oil companies in the country? Did the Minister, for example, agree that he would not question the transaction and would approve it provided the additional consideration was the subject of what  Mr Souter  called a commercial transaction which was not brought to his notice? If this was done there could not possibly be any deceit of the- Minister, nor any criminal conduct. That is why I raise the matter. Further, if it were so it would reveal a degree of corruption which this Parliament and the people of this country would not tolerate. 
Since speaking in the debate on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department I have had the opportunity to peruse the transcript and the exhibits. I must say that I have grave concern as to whether this matter was adequately investigated. I would have liked the opinion of the Attorney-General on that matter also in the face of this House. Honourable members on each side all know that  Mr Souter  is a man of honesty and integrity. I do not believe there is anybody in this House who would want to question that. It is difficult to believe that he would deliberately deceive a Minister of the Crown. This is reason enough for being circumspect about the report and looking at it very carefully. Consistently in his evidence  Mr Souter  maintained that what he regarded as a commercial transaction, the second agreement, did not require submission to the Government. He said in evidence:  ... it was my firm impression in discussions with the Minister that the question of the sale of the crude was at the government approved price, and the commercial contract in relation to the refined product is a matter between the parties. 
Of course this meant that he regarded the second agreement as falling within his understanding of what the Minister told him. No question of his being under any misapprehension about the second agreement arises. He believed, from what the Minister said, that the second agreement did not require production. In other words he was saying that the Minister had indicated to him that he need not produce an agreement like the second one, which was obviously a device, by fixing the figure relating to gallonage of refined products, to pay what APC really wanted for the crude, namely, $5 a barrel which represented 9c a gallon. This allegation by  Mr Souter  is extremely serious. It can be answered in only one way when made by an honest man and that is by calling the Minister. As has already been indicated, no evidence was given by the Minister. 
Paragraphs 19.3 and 19.4 of the report contain the only basis upon which the Commission came to its decision that the Government was deceived. Firstly it relies on the Minister's telephone inquiry concerning prices and  Mr Souter's  admitted assurance in reply that the sale would be at the Government approved prices. That does not add to the matter at all and it is no answer because what  Mr Souter  was saying was that he did not have to produce the second agreement and provided he had an agreement at the Government agreed price that was sufficient. That was all he was talking about in that telephone conversation. That matters nothing. The third reason- I shall come to the second in a moment because it is the most significant- is the terms of the letter of 26 June 1975 in which the Minister stated that the transaction is an unexceptionable transaction. Again the Commission relied on that as a ground for saying that the Minister had been deceived. Again it adds nothing. The thing to look at is the file. 
Let us just have a look at this file. Let us see whether the file really assists- - 
Do not speak too quickly, my friend, because in a moment I am going to lay you low. Let us see whether the file really assists to form the view that the Minister was deceived. We have already had reference to the interdepartmental memorandums to the Minister. I do not need to go into them any further. But there is one aspect of this memorandum that is very interesting. The memorandum states: 
So far as the crude oil absorption scheme is concerned, the transaction is to be welcomed as it removes one of the  underlifters  from the fields. 
That was the reason given in that memorandum; it removes one of the underlifters from the scheme. The underlifter of course was APC. The Government wanted to get rid of it in favour of ACTU-Solo - 
This is not the thing that is going to lay you low, it is something else. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Blaxland will cease interjecting. 
-I shall now refer to something else that is in this file. It is a letter from  Mr Sykes  to the Minister dated 7 July 1975. That is five or six days before this crude began to be uplifted.  Mr Sykes  wrote to the Minister as follows: 
There has been a grave miscarriage of justice in APC (Allied) getting this crude and now selling it at an enormous premium of, I believe, 9c per gallon . . . This means the ACTU-Solo will have to pay out some $ 1.2m to a 100 per cent overseas firm owned by a man called  Steiber  in the USA . . . 
On 7 July 1975 the Minister knew about it. One can search that file and one will find nothing to show that the Minister did anything about it. He knew nothing about it? It was the evidence of  Mr Sykes  that brought this matter before the Commission and before the Government late in August of this year. The Minister knew about it early in July. Do not try to tell me that the Minister did not know. Do not tell me that he was not party to a transaction. I again ask: Why did the 
Commission and the Government counsel not call before the Commission the Minister and  Mr Kelty  of the ACTU and also  Mr Gartland  and the other gentleman,  Mr Hunter?  Why were they not called and why were they not asked about this matter and all the matters that were raised? It is pretty clear that the Government in this matter is trying to make a scapegoat of  Mr Souter. 
When one thinks of the great integrity of this man one wonders why. There must be indeed very serious matters that the Government wants to cover up if it is prepared to sacrifice this very loyal servant of the trade union movement. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest to you that this debate today has brought out into the open these very serious questions: Why is it that the Government is still not questioning this report? Why is it that it does not go behind it? Why do we not have the Attorney-General here, the first law officer of the Commonwealth, to tell this Parliament whether he has read the transcript, whether he has read the report and whether he thinks some criminal conduct is involved or whether he thinks a grave injustice has been done to  Mr Souter  of the ACTU? 
-I wish to make some remarks about Aboriginal housing. The Australian Labor Party's policy on Aboriginal housing was clearly enunciated at Surfers Paradise in 1973. I want to examine its three-fold pledge. The first is the promise to house properly every Aborigine by the end of 1982. Nearly 2!6 years have elapsed since that pledge was made and the Aboriginal waiting lists for public housing continue to grow in every State and in the Federal territories. For example, in one New South Wales town, Moree, the waiting list for Housing Commission homes for Aborigines in 1974 alone grew by twelve. That means that 12 additional Aboriginal families in Moree are further away in 1975 from their promised house than they were at the time of Labor's Surfers Paradise pledge in 1973. I am told that in Sydney housing conditions for Aborigines are so desperate that South Sydney Community Aid literally has to beg real estate agents to accept Aboriginal tenants. On the few occasions on which accommodation is found the rents charged are often more than 60 per cent of the income of the tenants. 
-I thought that the Department of Housing and Construction administered part of the Aboriginal housing area. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  There is a reference in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and there is a sum of money for this year. 
To be spent through the Department of Housing and Construction. 
Under the Department of Housing and Construction there is a reference to furniture and fittings for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The Government must be worried about what I have to say. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I am afraid I have to find that there is no substance in the point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I do not need any cheering from the Committee. I find that there is a reference to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction and on a quick glance through the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs I can find no reference to housing. I call the honourable member for Wentworth. 
This Government has pledged to house properly all Aborigines by 1983. The real facts need to be understood. I am sure that Aborigines understand them and the public also must understand them. 
The facts are that this Government cannot even cope with emergencies as they arise let alone catch up with the massive Aboriginal backlog. This Government, always so free with its promises, has in this Budget markedly cut the appropriation for public housing for the States in real terms by allowing an increase of only $ 1.5m in absolute terms or a mere 3.5 per cent to cover inflation. Yet the overall increase in the Budget is 23 per cent. The New South Wales Minister for Housing has announced that no new public housing will be put out to tender in 1975-76. Let there be no doubts on one score. When this Government is ordered by the Australian people to go it will leave behind it more Aboriginal families unhoused than when it came to office in 1972 so full of promises. 
What of the second of Labor's pledges? Let us not forget any part of it. It was to make funds available to assist Aborigines who wish to purchase their own homes, taking into account personal wishes as to design and location. That assistance was to be in compensation for the loss of traditional lands. Certainly money has been spent. This Government has always been good at spending. It always counts its achievements by how much of other people's money it has spent. In 1 974-75 over $2 1 m was made available to the States for Aboriginal housing programs. A further $22m was spent directly on Aboriginal housing associations and Aboriginal Hostels Ltd. A total of over $43m- more than one-quarter of the 1974-75 Aboriginal Affairs budget- was spent on Aboriginal housing in one form or another. 
But what of the promise 'to take into account Aborigines' personal wishes as to design and location'. Here, as always, Labor's technocrats have fallen down on the job. Have they consulted Aboriginal communities? Have they allowed Aborigines to participate in the housing programs? This Government does not really stand for dialogue, for participation, for open government. These are catch cries to attract gullible voters. When the matter is really examined this Government stands for experts telling local tribal communities how to run their lives. As a substitute for real consideration of the wishes of Aboriginal communities on designs and locations, outside consultants have been flown in from Sydney or Darwin or Alice Springs or Perth to plan new communities in the space of a few days. Then, after disasters at Jigalong and at Warburton and Laverton in the eastern goldfields of Western Australia, the Labor Government has decided to try a different approach. In comes the Aboriginal Housing Panel of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects. The Aboriginal Housing Panel has provided a new wave of white technocrats, this time acting under the guise of 'community catalysts'. These architects, quite predictably, have indulged all their pet ideas, from geodesic domes to the restoration of the wattle-and-daub era. And still the Aborigines have remained the victims, remained dependent. The only real difference is that they are tormented by the knowledge that millions of dollars are available, are being allocated and are being spent without any more passing directly into their hands than before. 
Ask the Moree Aboriginal Housing Company what it thinks of Labor's housing policy; ask the Bakandji Housing Co-operative at Wilcannia; ask the Papunya people and the Warburton people. What is happening then to the money for Aboriginal housing? It is being devoured by white administrators, white architects, white surveyors, white engineers, white accountants and white building teams. These Labor technocrats devour the Aboriginal Affairs budget and then have the gall to praise their own efforts, their own humanitarianism, their own self-sacrifice. Labor just cannot escape the fact that to plan for Aboriginal communities- to respect their preferences- you need to sit with them, talk with them and employ Aboriginal people to achieve Aboriginal goals. Finally, I come to Labor's third Surfers Paradise pledge- to provide 'trained social workers ... in areas where such housing has been undertaken under the jurisdiction of local communities'. As I have already pointed out, this Government's record of consultation and participation is abysmal. I can only say that this part of Labor's policy does not appear to have been attempted- for which we should be thankful. This pious promise to place social workers under the jurisdiction of local communities shows a total ignorance of Aboriginal opinion. The tribal councils in Arnhem Land do not easily suffer white social workers intruding in their affairs. Nor do the clans at outstations or on cattle stations - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! The Chair has been lenient but we are discussing housing, not social workers. 
-I am talking about Labor's policy. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  With the greatest respect to the honourable member the debate is on housing. The honourable member was given some latitude before when a point of order was raised. I would prefer that he spoke on housing rather than social workers. 
-What is progressive opinion beginning to say about Aboriginal housing policy? It is saying that where housing is a live issue, whether among tribal Aboriginal communities or non-tribal associations, it is reasonable to assume that Aborigines themselves Will discuss the housing they prefer and determine their own priorities. This is what anthropologists have been telling governments for a generation: That European 'resource people'- Labor's expertstend only to insinuate their own prejudices into policy. And this has been the case with Labor's policies. It has tended to tell Aborigines what their housing needs are. It has manufactured European needs and transported them to Aboriginal sites by medium of consultants and 'advisors'. The Opposition takes a radically different view. The Liberal and National Country Parties are ready to determine Aboriginal housing needs and preferences in consultation with Aboriginal people and their community leaders. 
Wherever practicable, self-management by Aborigines is our objective. Housing policy has a vital contribution to make toward achieving it. If Aboriginal organisations have the skills to fulfil that aim then the Aboriginal housing problem may well be resolved by the early 1980s. We will not be a parry, however, to the enforcement of uniform housing standards by uniformly minded bureaucrats just for the sake of a cheap political pledge. We know that the only road to achievement in Aboriginal affairs is through Aboriginal achievement by Aboriginals themselves. They must set the targets. They must achieve them. The task of white administrators and politicians, indeed of the entire white community, is to fund, to facilitate, to encourage, to sympathise. The days of whites calling the tune and craking the whip are over, 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer him to the third report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. I also refer him to the answers given by the Prime Minister that the Government accepts the findings of that Commission. I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Has he considered that report? I also ask: Has he, pursuant to his undoubted responsibility, set in train a consideration of whether criminal proceedings should be taken against  Mr Souter  and other persons involved in the deal discussed in that report? 
It is a great pity that this debate which could be on an elevated plane has tended to be reduced by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  to a mud slinging match. I do not intend to indulge in that except to say that I note that the legal aid offices that have been established first are all in Labor electorates. Let me say at the outset and reiterate that the Opposition is not opposed to legal aid, never has been and never will be. I hope that we can have a sensible and responsible debate about a very serious subject that affects this country. The Opposition takes the view that legal aid services should be provided in the most efficient, accountable and accessible form to those in need of it. For this purpose the Opposition believes that a joint committee of both Houses should consider the important legal, social and constitutional issues involved. 
It is time, as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  said, that we acted as a Parliament on a matter like this. It is time that we legislated on the basis of an inquiry into the important issues involved. We already have had an inquiry into the National Compensation Bill. That Bill was dealt with in the same way as this Bill is being dealt with in this House. We saw what happened to it. I suggest that the same thing will happen to this Bill if it is not at this stage dealt with on a proper basis. It will not help the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to treat the referral of this Bill to a committee by the Senate as a failure to pass. It is not a failure to pass. He may as well wake up to that, take the advice and get on with the job of getting a proper and effective legal aid Act for the Commonwealth. 
There are a number of reasons why it is both desirable and convenient to take this course. First of all the question of the extent of the power of this Parliament to provide funds for legal aid is presently before the High Court. In those circumstances I suggest to honourable members that it is stupid to legislate until we know what the High Court has to say. Those who have dared to challenge the power have been berated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the AttorneyGeneral. These days if people attack legislation the Government attempts to shame them because they have dared to exercise their undoubted power to challenge unconstitutional legislation. If the legislation before the- High Court is declared invalid it is probably the Government's fault for not putting it in proper legislative form. Obviously there is no power in the Constitution to legislate with respect to legal aid as a subject matter. On the other hand it is very likely that this Parliament has power to legislate so as to provide legal aid to citizens who are exercising their Federal rights before Federal courts. It is foolish, I suggest, for this Parliament to proceed with this measure while the matter is before the High Court. 
The second thing I wish to bring before the House is this: The fact that a committee is set up will not prevent legal aid being dispensed through offices already established. Quite obviously this can continue. As we understand it the Attorney-General is engaged in the act of setting up another 30 regional offices. The setting up of these offices will go ahead. The AttorneyGeneral will go on his merry way whether this legislation goes through or not. If a committee is set up that will not prevent the Attorney-General from setting up these regional offices. Whether he is wise in doing so is another matter, but the setting up of a committee will not prevent his doing so. Thirdly there is no need for a lengthy delay. The committee should be able to deal with the matter by early next year- that is to say before the High Court hears the proceeding before it and is able to give its decision. 
Another matter is this: Already there are several other comprehensive reports into the subject of legal aid in Australia, and these do not agree about the manner in which legal aid can best be provided. There is the report of the Australian Legal Aid Review Committee of March 1975, the Sackville report on legal aid in Australia and the Tomasic report issued by the Law Foundation of New South Wales. There are many helpful articles including an article by Messrs Ross and Mossman on legal aid in New South Wales in the  Australian Quarterly,  Volume 47, of March 1975. These raise numbers of legal, social and constitutional questions and the recommendations differ. They deserve study, consideration and report by a committee of the Parliament in order to find the best solution. For instance, the Sackville report stated: 
A significant expansion of legal aid in Australia is required to meet legal needs within the community and to guarantee that all individuals and groups, regardless of means, have access to the full range of legal services. 
The second recommendation is this: 
This expansion should be based primarily on the establishment and development of a network of neighbourhood or local legal centres employing salaried lawyers- 
That is a matter of great debate. The Sackville report has brought forward that recommendation, but the extent of the use of a salaried legal service in the provision of legal aid should be looked into. Submissions have been made to the Attorney-General by the Law Council of Australia. So far as I am aware, having had a look at the amendments that the AttorneyGeneral proposes, he is not prepared to adopt some of the basic submissions the Council has made. For instance, the Law Council has suggested that the Law Commission should be independent of government. The AttorneyGeneral, so far as his proposed amendments indicate, has refused to adopt that submission. It is suggested that the composition of the Board of the Commission and the consultative committees be amended to give further representation to the independent legal profession. So far as I read the Attorney-General's proposed amendments they do not embrace that matter. There are other matters that the Law Council mentioned. They are submissions which are made by the main representative legal body in Australia and they are worthy of consideration by this Parliament. The legal profession has an obvious interest in legal aid and its role in legal aid requires effective and absolute assessment. I have already referred to what the Sackville report said about the use of salaried lawyers in legal aid. 
Another matter which is of vital importance is the question of independence, which I have already mentioned. Unfortunately the Labor Government tends not to work with people or to involve people. It likes to tell people what to do. With legal aid it is doing exactly the same thingtelling people what to do. It wants to bureaucrause legal aid. It will not trust social workers, the legal profession or the people involved, who are the recipients of legal aid, to run their own legal aid system. In other words, it will not trust the community that knows most about the question of legal aid. I suggest that here is another issue which needs very careful consideration before a BUI such as this goes into law. 
The role of existing legal aid schemes needs to be considered. For instance, in New South Wales, as honourable members will know, we have the Public Solicitor associated with the Public Defender. We have the Law Society's scheme which has been set up and approved by statute and the role which the Law Society is performing in relation to legal aid. In yesterday's 
Press there was a report of what it is doing. The report stated in part: 
The New South Wales law society expects its legal aid system for juveniles will cost $500,000 next year. The scheme, which provides the services of an experienced solicitor at all children 's courts, is probably the most extensive in Australia. Solicitors working on a duty roster made more than 1 100 court appearances for juveniles in May and June. 
In other words, there is in New South Wales a very effective legal aid system which has been at work since the early 1 940s. 
Of course they will go the ALAO as well. All I am talking about is the absolute need to work out the role of those other bodies of legal aid in relation to the Australian Legal Aid Office. These considerations strongly support the setting up of a committee, preferably a joint committee. If the Government refuses to do so I suggest that it is clearly playing politics with legal aid because I can assure Government supporters that it will not do them any good to treat a referral by the Senate to a committee as a refusal to pass. That is a vain hope. It would be far better for the Parliament of the Commonwealth to look at the various issues involved and to come up with a good, effective and efficient scheme of legal aid for this country. That is why we have put forward this motion. The Opposition is not opposed to legal aid. To say that it is is absolutely false. The Opposition 's concern is to ensure that Australia has the most efficient, effective, economic and just system of legal aid that can be provided. It was in that context that the statement was made in the alternative Budget that we will abolish the Australian Legal Aid Office. We made that statement in the context that we believe that legal aid in Australia can be carried out more effectively, as I hope to demonstrate, through the State systems and not through a Commonwealth system. 
I wish to set out what I believe to be some basic principles to be applied in devising an efficient legal aid service in this country. Firstly, the legal aid service adopted should represent co-operative involvement between governments at State and Federal levels, the legal profession, other professionals who are involved, such as social workers, and the assisted public. Secondly, the Federal Government has a definite role in ensuring the provision of legal aid. Let it be clear that this is not a matter, and is not being put forward as a matter, of State rights. Obviously a Federal Parliament which passes laws which create rights, duties and obligations has a real consideration in relation to those citizens who are enforcing those rights. The Houses of this Parliament are entitled to pass laws which effectively provide legal aid for people enforcing federal rights. So a Federal government has a clear involvement in legal aid. 
The third principle is that in a federation an effective system cannot be worked out without co-operation between State and Federal governments. Let me explain. It appears that in this particular measure there is a limitation on the legal assistance or legal representation which can be aided by a federal legal aid office. There is a constitutional limitation. Most of the individual rights which people have in this country spring out of State law and not out of Federal law. Therefore, if one goes into a Federal legal aid office there is a limitation upon the nature of the advice and the extent of the assistance which one can get. On the other hand, a State legal aid office can provide assistance right across the board on Federal and State matters for constitutional reasons. 
Obviously from the point of view of the public the most effective legal aid office will be one which enables the officers to give legal aid to people, whatever the source of their rights, be it Federal or State. It is rather stupid to have a diverse and duplicated system whereby we have Federal legal aid offices dealing with Federal matters and State legal aid offices, State agencies or law societies which are giving legal aid on another basis. Here we find not co-operative federalism; we find instead a confrontation between the State and Federal systems. For that reason I believe we need a rationalised system of legal aid in this country operating through the States but with Federal involvement and Federal support both financially and, if necessary, legislatively. 
For instance, we could have in each State a legal aid commission which would have within it the necessary salaried service to the extent to which that was thought prudent. Within that legal aid commission, which could be an independent commission supported by and set up under State statute and supported by State and Federal money, offices could be set up in which members of the public- our constituents as well as State constituents- could get the legal aid they want without any reference to the constitutional difficulties. It would be a co-operative system of legal aid. A committee would go into this question and would ask what was the most effective way in which to do it. 
Fourthly, the legal profession must play a leading role in any legal aid service. I believe that the only way of getting the maximum confidential and independent advice is by the involvement of the independent legal profession. That is a basic element in our democracy. Once the independence of the legal profession is dealt a blow, that will deal a blow to this country and to our basic rights. Whatever one says about lawyers and their fees, say nothing about the independence of the legal profession. I can assure the House that once the legal profession comes under the control of the State, that will be the beginning of the end of liberty in this country. Have no doubt about it. If we bureaucratise legal aid and keep out the legal profession we will find not only will a blow have been struck at the independence of the profession but also the community will be deprived of the practice and expertise of the profession. 
What is more, one aspect that is tremendously important is the voluntary contribution of the profession itself. May I say that I have never found very many barristers or solicitors who were not prepared to make a contribution. They do already make significant contributions to legal aid in this country and have been doing so for many years, as have other professions. Unless the voluntary contribution of the legal profession is harnessed for the benefit of the community, legal aid will not mean very much, because we cannot afford it. That is the point. It is a bottomless pit. For instance, last year in the Australian Legal Aid Office approximately $6m of work was promoted. That work had not yet been paid for. The appropriation of $7m in this year's Budget represents money that has already been spent in the sense that the work has been undertaken. That money is for fees that the Government must pay to the legal profession for work which is in train. This year, of course, more work will be undertaken. The bottomless pit of legal aid which must be watched is this problem of keeping a rein on expenditure, keeping it there through the legal aid system and through the exercise of proper principles and these have to be adopted all the time. 
I think, because of the cost of litigation, that a contributory scheme is desirable. There are some people who are supposedly affluent who are deprived of their legal rights because they cannot afford to go into litigation. That is a fact. It is not only poor people who are in need of legal aid. Some supposedly affluent people share this need. In order to ensure maximum accountability and community involvement the legal aid scheme should be administered by a body or bodies which are independent of government. I have already dealt with that. There is a distinct role for a salaried service in areas of need. Again, legal aid should be administered as close to those needing it as possible by duty solicitors and the like. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he promise  Mr Callope,  the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Community Council at Weipa South, that the Government would assist the community to purchase a vehicle to take members of the Community to Old Mapoon. 
Did he repeat this promise on 1 8 February 1 975. 
) If so, has this promise been honoured. 
If the promise was made but has not been honoured, when will it be honoured. 
If it was made but is not to be honoured, why is it not to be honoured. 
-During question time, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  insinuated that I was lending myself to a task. I suppose that he was saying that I was lending myself to a task which I was not behind. After I ceased to be Solicitor-General of this great nation and became a member of this House I quickly learned about the incompetence of this Government. For many months I watched the Government's incompetence. I watched it last September; I watched it into March. I watched a Minister dismissed and I watched another Minister dismissed. Then came the events of 9 July last. That was when I resolved, in no uncertain terms, to throw myself behind the throwing out of this. Government as soon as possible. That day and the documents produced revealed the greatest dishonesty that one could ever find in government. I saw the situation then, I said so then and I made a charge then. I appealed to honourable members opposite to set up a ,royal commission because I wanted some questions answered. I did not want a government that was disreputable or dishonest. I wanted a government that was decent. I would not mind a little bit of incompetence, but I did not want dishonesty for a moment. I wanted a royal commission. No trumped up situation in the Senate did I want. I wanted a royal commission where people and Ministers could appear and give thenevidence and clear up this terrible mess. 
I do not lend myself to this task except for the purpose of throwing out a government that is dishonest and disreputable. Let me say this: It did not end last Tuesday, and honourable members opposite know that it did not end. Do Government supporters want us to go on dragging out the evidence day after day? I tell them that it will go on because this affair is the most rotten thing that has happened in this country since Federation. A Minister was dismissed last week- and Government supporters should not talk about resignation because there is no doubt that he was dismissed. The Prime Minister said: 
I advised the Governor-General to accept the Minister's resignation because I do not believe in the accuracy of the assurance which the Minister gave me that all communications of substance between him and  Mr Khemlani  were tabled by him on 9 July last. 
Those telexes have been accepted by the Prime Minister. I hope that every Government supporter has read them and has a series of dates written down as to when various things happened, because one of the telexes shows that either the Prime Minister knew what was happening or the former Minister for Minerals and Energy was party to a shabby fraud. 
If Government supporters do not believe me, I shall read what I mean.  Mr Khemlani  sent this telex to  Mr Connor  on 23 May 1975:  . . . yesterday the Financial Times' published the following article on page six 'that the Government Executive Council had revoked the authority to borrow money' 
The truth was out in London, in other words. 
This caused the owners and the Prince a bit of upset and his advisor informed him on the phone in Saudi Arabia and therefore some special questions and demands were made in the meeting and I informed them of my position and my sure answer was that the Government - 
Listen to this:  . . . is ready to borrow and that this article had nothing to do with the particular transaction and that this was the matter of transaction with Moscow bank. 
Every one of us knows that that is not true. He went on to say that he was going to put in a bank guarantee in order to assure those lenders that there was authority from the Australian Government. The Minister stood by and allowed that to happen, and that guarantee was given, as these documents show. I do not for one moment lay a charge against the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, because I believe that what the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said was true. I believe that on 23, 24 and 25 May the Prime Minister knew well that these discussions were going on and that there were matters passing between  Mr Connor  and  Mr Khemlani.  Yet this morning in question time he hedged about, would not answer and said that he had answered. If we take his answer at its face, it says: 'I did not know anything after 20 May'. It is a pretty serious thing if the Prime Minister did in fact know of these discussions. I want it answered.' I wanted it answered on 9 July and I have wanted it answered since. I do not want a disreputable Government, but believing that it is and feeling that it is, I will lend my weight to every attempt to throw it out. 
The Prime Minister said in question time that I was not born in 1911. He thought that I might not have heard of Asquith. But I had heard of Asquith when I was a little boy. What I learned about Asquith was that Asquith had the courage to face the people. When the House of Lords rejected the finance Bills in 1907 or 1909, or whenever it was, he went to the people. That is the thing that honourable members opposite have to do now- go to the people. Let them have no doubt about it- they are going. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not imagine that any man behind me or any man in the other place is going to let our side down, because he is not. You are going to the people in this sorry situation. The longer you delay and the longer you allow the demagogue to control you, the worse it will be for the Labor Party, and have no doubt about it. I believe that sitting on the Government front bench are honest men who have doubts in their minds about all this, who are asking questions and who will look at the documents to which I have referred. There are men, if I can use the statement of the old poet, who can stand before a demagogue and damn his treacherous flattery. That is what the Prime Minister is doing to you now- flattering you. You will damn his treacherous flattery, if you take my advice. 
Let us go on to something else. Throughout the last few days we have had nothing in this country but people on the other side, on public platforms and in this House, creating a situation of grave fear and grave crisis. There is no crisis whatsoever. 
There is no constitutional crisis in this country at all. 
The Constitution provides - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I heard something: 
We have had enough of Labor Larrikinism It also took place on the Senate side of the building last week with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. If he comes into this House he will be up for contempt if he says the same thing here as he said there, have no doubt. 
Let him say it in the precincts of this House and it will happen, too, my friend. What I am saying is that honourable members opposite have been creating fear in this community when there is no constitutional crisis. The fact quite clearly is that the Prime Minister has a role to perform now. He knows quite well that in the other place the Budget has been in substance rejected. Honourable members opposite know it. This is just a play. This is just a game. Every day the Prime Minister delays the closer he puts the people of this country and the public servants in peril. The Constitution provides a process that can be followed. That simple process is for the Prime Minister to get in his car, go out to Yarralumla and sit down and discuss the matter with the Governor-General. There is only one piece of proper advice for him to give the Governor-General, and that is to dissolve this House or to have a double dissolution. There is no question about that. There is no question whatsoever that that is the proper thing for the Prime Minister to do. I have little doubt that he will not do it. We know that by the way he has been going on here and on television- the irrational stance, these eyes that flash in defiance of the Australian Constitution. That is what is happening. Day after day it has been happening. He is implanting fear into our people when there is no need for fear. The Prime Minister has it clearly in his hands to go to the GovernorGeneral at any time, to give the right advice and let us go off to the people. That is all we are asking. We are not asking for the seats opposite. What we are asking is that this dishonest government go and account to the people. 
As I said before, I will not let a stone be unturned until the Government goes to the people. But in the whole of that I will stick to what is proper and what is right. Nothing that has been done so far on our side is not proper, is not right. The Governor-General clearly has a power to dismiss his Ministers. The Prime Minister says: 'The Governor-General has to do what I say'. If I wanted to I could quote 10 or 15 leading constitutional authorities. They are all quoted in  Dr Evatt's  book. They are all there. The Prime Minister knows they are there. They all say that the Governor-General has a reserve power in these circumstances. What a terrible disgrace it would be if the moment has to come in our country when the Governor-General is even forced into thinking about asking the Prime Minister to hand in his commission. There is no need for this embarrassment to the Crown. The Prime Minister is the one who is guilty in these circumstances. He is the one who is leading this Government, who has allowed this shadow of dishonesty to descend upon it, and he is the one who must take responsibility for the burden that the Australian people are apparently at his hands going to bear. 
Honourable members opposite say that we have no charges. Let me read out a petition that was lodged in this House today. May I say that it was not prompted by me, although I presented it. It just happened to come in the mail. Let me read it. I shall not read all of it. Honourable members can read it themselves tomorrow. It refers to the events of 13 December 1974. It refers to section 86 of the Crimes Act, which provides that a person who conspires with another person to effect a purpose that is unlawful under a law of the Commonwealth or to effect a lawful purpose by means that are unlawful shall be guilty of an indictable offence. The petitioner says that he wants to take proceedings against 4 peopleEdward Gough Whitlam, Reginald Francis Xavier Connor, James Ford Cairns and the  Hon.  Lionel Keith Murphy. Those were 4 Minister who were present on 13 December. That petition is an attitude on the part of some members of our community. They are seeking that the documents which were laid before this House on 9 July be available in proceedings in a court of petty sessions. What a disreputable situation in which to find a government when a petition of that character has to be presented to this House. 
My question is directed to the AttorneyGeneral. I refer him to the question I asked him several weeks ago about the report of the royal commission on ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd which he said he was then in the course of considering. Has he completed his consideration of that report, which he has now had for over a month, and will he inform the House whether, in the light of his consideration, he proposes to institute any criminal proceedings against persons mentioned in that report? 
-These measures, particularly the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill, contain provisions which are of tremendous significance. These Bills are probably more momentous in a way than any other measures that have been before this Parliament this year. The Government has been talking about them for some time. It has had the report of  Mr Justice  Woodward of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission since April 1974. As I understand it, this Bill is an attempt to enact into law the recommendations of the Woodward Commission. We on this side of the House support a measure which will give land rights to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. But in whatever form it becomes law, the provisions of the Bill will reach into the future in a very significant way. Therefore it is of tremendous importance not only to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory but also to the Australian people as a whole, and particularly those who live in the Northern Territory, that this measure be as wise and as effective as we can possibly make it. It should receive careful, detailed attention. 
We have in this House a Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I understand that the 
Committee has attracted the support and the commendation of honourable members for many years. That Committee has not had this Bill before it. It has not reported on it. It has not seen it at all. Unless what I am proposing to move on behalf of the Opposition is passed, the expertise that is within this House will not be available to us in the debate on this Bill. I believe that that is a great misfortune. The first reading of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill occurred in this House on 30 September, and the first reading of the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill occurred a little over a fortnight ago. In the second reading speeches on each occasion the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  indicated that the Government would allow these Bills to remain on the table so that interested parties, including of course the Aboriginal people, could make representations in relation to them. It is a very unfortunate fact that these Bills are being brought on for debate without the opportunity which the Government promised would take place. In other words, the Government has broken its promise to the Aboriginal people as well as to the other people in the Northern Territory. There has been no real time for representations to be made. 
Bodies such as the Central Land Council and the Northern Land Council may well have been consulted in relation to these Bills. I do not know. But the fact is that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly- an important body, may I suggestand also the Aboriginal community councils of the Northern Territory have not had this Bill before them until recently. So the opportunity for consideration and representations has not been given. Let me cite what the Minister said in his second reading speech on the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill. He said: 
It is the Government's intention, therefore, that, as with the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill, a further debate on this Bill will not occur until there has been adequate time for the Bill to be examined by all who will be affected by it I will be taking whatever  action  is necessary in the next few months to ensure that the Bill is explained to and understood by the Aboriginal community, and that the community's views on its provisions are taken account of in the later stages of debate. 
In his second reading speech on the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill the Minister said: 
It is therefore intended, as with the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill, that the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill should not proceed immediately through the second and third readings but lie before the House until a later date so that any representations may be taken into account before the House votes on the legislation. In this way, I believe, the Bill will, when passed, represent a coming together both of Aboriginal wishes and of the interests of other sections of the community. 
I recall that the Minister went on to express the view that we might operate on a bipartisan basis. Unfortunately, that has not taken place. Unfortunately, Aboriginal communities have not had the opportunity to make representations nor have the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and other interested parties. 
Last week, when I discovered that these measures were to be brought on for debate, I sent telegrams to the various Aboriginal communities and other interested bodies in the  Northern Territory. Bodies such as the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress, the Aboriginal Legal Service in Alice Springs and the Northern Land Council, a body which has been set up in advance of this measure, replied indicating that they want the Bill to go through. They of course have probably had it for some time and therefore feel that they are in sufficient charge of its provisions to understand its ramifications. However, other Aboriginal groups have not been so circumspect about the BUI. For instance, I have a long telegram from  Mr Andrews, President  of the Bagot community at Darwin. He makes a number of comments on the measure. The Docker River Council sent me this telegram: 
The Docker River Council men could not convey their ideas and beliefs easily in a telegram so unless you can visit here prior to a debate they wish that great care be had in ensuring that Aboriginal groups be involved in the entire planning and implementation of such Bills. 
The  President  of the Numbulwar Town Council said: 
Thanks telegram. Only received copy of Councils and Associations Bill yesterday. No copy received of land Bill but trying to obtain one from Aboriginal Affairs Darwin. Will send you telegram with any comments as soon as possible. 
The Naugiu Shire Council stated: 
Our letter of objections to the Bill will be coming to you in Mondays mail. 
That is yesterday. I have not received it yet. Jambana Lalara President of the Angurugu outpost, Darwin, stated: 
Received copy of Aboriginal Council Bill today with letter from Minister of Aboriginal Affairs saying he required comment by mid-November. Have not seen copy of Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill. Council upset. Believe it has right for full discussions before Acts are passed. Please help us by sending all Bills. 
So there we have the attitudes of some of the Aboriginal communities. I read those not to embarrass the Minister but simply to indicate to the House the seriousness of going ahead without a proper opportunity to take into account the representations of the various communities. These are not simple measures; they are very complex. Those of us who have had anything to do with Aboriginal communities will know the difficulties involved in explaining the nature of measures and the sorts of consultations that have to take place before they understand our legal forms and the time that has to be spent in doing this. I do not know completely why the Government wishes to bring on this legislation now. I assume it is because it still has in the back of its mind that there might be a half Senate election before Christmas. I regret very much that these Bills should be caught up in such a thought if that is the thought. It is the only reason I can find for these matters being brought on for debate before those promises are carried into effect- not our promises but the Minister's promises, the Government's promises. I think the Minister and the Government ought to think seriously before they allow this debate to continue without those representations being made. Another important body, as I have already mentioned, is the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Recently the Legislative Assembly, which had not been consulted in relation to the terms of the Aboriginal Lands (Northern Territory) Bill passed this motion: 
That this Assembly is of the opinion that the passage of the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1975 at present before the federal Parliament should be delayed until at least the last week in November to allow the people of the Northern Territory to express their views on it. 
A delegation was set up under the resolution for the purpose of conveying to the Government the views of the Assembly and of the people of the Northern Territory on this matter. The delegation was appointed to attend upon Ministers of the Federal Government for that purpose. The importance and significance of the Legislative Assembly hardly needs mentioning. One can imagine that it ought to have its views expressed in relation to a matter of perhaps relative insignificance but here we are dealing with a measure which potentially affects the whole of the Northern Territory where there are Crown lands. As at a recent date claims which totalled 300 689 square kilometres had been made in relation to Aboriginal lands and that included 243 970 square kilometres which are contained within Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory. That is to say, 23 per cent of the Northern Territory is subject to claim under these Bills and particularly the land rights Bill. As I understand it, that was at 9 September. 
It may well be that there are claims which are either made or nascent in existence or existing in the minds of people or Aboriginal groups which could still be made which could well exceed 23 per cent of the total area of the Northern Territory. Is it too much to think that in those circumstances we in this Parliament should take into account the views of the members of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory? It is too much to think that they will have something to say, that not just appointed representatives but the elected representatives of the people of the Northern Territory might have a right to voice their attitudes to these measures before they are passed into law through this House? Surely it is a reasonable suggestion to make yet I understand that the Government is going to ignore the Legislative Assembly. 
One of the aspects of this question is that at some time in the future, be it close or distant- it will not matter for these purposes because as I said earlier these Bills will have long term effectthe Northern Territory, although it be anathema to the Government, will probably be a State of the Commonwealth and those who are now the elected representatives in the Legislative Assembly may well be members of a State parliament but certainly their successors will be and the statehood and the effect of these provisions on the statehood of the Northern Territory are very material matters to take into consideration in this debate. I repeat that at least 23 per cent of the Northern Territory could be affected by this legislation. Our attitude in these circumstances is simply contained in a motion which I propose to move later, namely: 
That each of these Bills be .referred to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs to receive representations on them from the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory and other interested persons and organisations in the Northern Territory and to report to the House on the nature and content of such representations. 
The Opposition is not seeking another Woodward Commission but we believe that we ought to have available to us in a proper form the representations of those who wish to make them. There are many people who would wish to make them- not only the Aboriginal communities and Aboriginal people, not only the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, but also the townspeople, the various groups, the fisherman's co-operative. For all I know the Department of Northern Australia itself may wish to say something upon this measure. The officers of that Department may have representations to make as to the effect of this Bill on the Northern Territory itself. For that purpose and against the background of what I have already said I propose to move that motion on behalf of the Opposition. We believe it is vital that the views of these people be known. Later I will develop the reason why. 
The Opposition accepts the principle that the title of traditional Aboriginal owners to land within the reserves ought to be recognised. There are of course other principles which are apposite in circumstances such as this where Aboriginal people are obtaining title to land. For instance, they must be provided with expertise and funds, by loans or grant, to assist them to develop their lands where development is economically viable. It is important that they be provided with appropriate health, education and housing services in the areas in which they are living. It is also vital that employment opportunities for Aboriginal people should be encouraged on settlements and elsewhere on their lands. I want to make it quite clear that the Opposition agrees in principle with the proposition that those lands on the reserve should be held for the benefit of the Aboriginal people. 
Undoubtedly there are reasons why lands in the Northern Territory outside the reserves might also in certain circumstances be held for Aboriginal people, for the traditional owners. Wave Hill is such an example. But at the same time the Bill is of such magnitude in its implications and so uncertain in its operation that it lays down no specific particulars, no grounds and no principles by which it is to operate in relation to land outside the reserves in the Northern Territory. Therefore, the Opposition regards it of great significance that very careful consideration be given before this legislation is finally passed so that it may go out of this Parliament in such a form that those who implement it will know the wish, the will and the wisdom of the Parliament and will also know the criteria which are to be applied in the operation of the Bill in the various areas of the Northern Territory. 
Clearly enough the circumstances in which traditional owners should be entitled to lands off the reserves may need greater definition than the Bill provides. Again the question that inevitably comes up is the question of the rights of existing holders of interest in Crown lands off reserves. That is a matter of tremendous significance. A question arises as to the use of the power of resumption to obtain lands for Aboriginal people off reserves. The question arises as to whether any test of economic viability ought to be applied in acquiring land in the Northern Territory for the Aboriginal people off reserves. I have already mentioned the fact that 23 per cent of the Northern Territory is already affected. That is of tremendous importance when one is considering a Crown land policy in the Northern Territory. One cannot consider this problem in a vacuum. One cannot consider it without taking into account the future of the Northern Territory in the whole Australian complex, in the Australian federation. One cannot look at it in any way other than against the total picture. 
In its present form, because it lays down no criteria really upon which lands outside the reserves will be dealt with, this Bill does not really come to grips with those basic questions. Until it does, or until we send from this Parliament a Bill which does, we will not do justice to the future. It will not bring harmony, as  Mr Justice  Woodward said in his report, between the Aboriginal community and the rest of the community. I remind honourable members that one of the principles which he stated was the promotion of social harmony and stability within the wider Australian community by removing, so far as possible, the legitimate causes of complaint of an important minority group within that community. If this measure becomes law without taking into account the relationship between the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory and others in the Northern Territory, its social effect and the effect of large areas of land being passed over without the operation of a test of economic viability, it may lead not to social harmony but to social disharmony. If the wisdom of this Parliament is that that should be done, well and good, but my concern, and the concern of the Opposition, is that before we take that step, if we take it, we should give it very careful thought and should take into account the views of all those who have real interest in this matter. 
Other matters obviously are important. The rights of traditional owners to decide what should happen on their lands is a matter of great significance. Time passes quickly these days, but as recently as July I visited the Northern Territory and went to a number of communities. One of the things which struck me, because I was aware of the possibility of this legislation containing the concept of large land councils, was the desire of traditional owners to say what was going to happen on their land; that is to say, people of a particular community- I will not name them because I do not think I should do so- in some part of the Northern Territory would say: 'We want the right to say what happens to our land. We do not want a remote land council to tell us what to do'. We know that this legislation provides for 2 land councils, one in the north and one in the south. As I will demonstrate later, those land councils will exercise tremendous power. The traditional communities in the Northern Territory which I visited- I think only one did not have a firm view on the matterexpressed the attitude that they did not want to be dictated to by a remote land council. In other words, it was just a simple proposition- 'If we own the land, if we have the right to the land, we want to say what is going to be done to it and we want to say how it is to be used '. 
Another matter which struck me was that the Aboriginal groups to which I spoke and with whom I sat- sometimes I sat with them for a couple of hours and then came back and spoke to them about it- were emphatic that they wanted to say who came on to their land. They did not want a remote land council telling them what to do and who was to enter their land. As far as I could understand the matter, they also wanted the right to say whether a person should come on, whether that person was an Aboriginal or not. In other words they drew no distinction between the Aboriginal and the non-Aboriginal person. So if a person did not live at a particular community, was not born there, did not have relatives there or did not have land there and wanted to go there, they would expect him to get permission. All this of course is perhaps rather obvious if one knows anything about Aboriginal land associations, because their association with the land emphasis their desire to say what shall happen to it, not only in relation to its sacred significance but also in relation to what will happen to it in terms of the twentieth century, that is, in terms of economic activity and operations on the land. So this is another question that arises for consideration. The Bill itself is not consonant with that at all. The Bill would give to the distant land council the right to say who could come on to the land. The Bill would give to the distant land council the ultimate decision as to what was to happen to the land and how it was to be used, and the land council could direct land trusts in relation thereto. 
True it is that the distant land council must not come to a decision until it has consulted with the local traditional owners of the land and is satisfied that they do not oppose the proposal; but let us come to that in a moment. The fact is that this Bill puts other bodies, which are quite foreign to and distant from the Aboriginal people, before them and inevitably they will become bureaucracies. How will those bodies stand alongside the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? I wonder myself when I think about it quietly. I wonder how the Department and the bodies will get on in years to come if the bodies do come into existence. As I see it at the moment, these bodies will have to have considerable expertise attached to them. They will have that degree of staff employed necessary to service the various local communities. If this measure goes through the result will be that Aboriginal bureaucracies will be growing up in 2 parts of the Northern Territory. 
My consultations with Aboriginal people I have met lead me to think that they would not feel happy about these distant land councils. I understand that already in Arnhem Land there is a proposal to set up a smaller land council called the East Arnhem Land Council. I do not know what particular area it will cover, but that is the proposal. In other words that expresses the attitude of the people in east Arnhem to the distant and large land councils that this Bill and the Woodward Commission propose. My point is not to debate that question finally and irrevocably here but simply to bring to the surface the fact that this is a real question which we need to look at as legislators. It is a question about which we ought not to simply accept- and I say this with the greatest respect- the decision of the Woodward Commission and upon which we ought to seek the assistance of the Aboriginal communities themselves. This is another reason why the matter should be referred to a committee in order to take representations from those interested. 
Other matters are involved. One phrase which is of particular interest is 'national interest' in relation to mining interests. What does 'national interest' mean? The question arises: What does it mean to the Aboriginal people? If they do not understand what it means and we do not understand what it means we are heading for trouble. If the phrase stays in that form without definition we will end up in a situation where the Government of the day- and it will not always be this Government clearly enough- will be at odds with the Aboriginal people. If we leave that phrase there undefined and uninstructed we are leaving trouble not only for government and Parliament but also for the Aboriginal people. It is a source of problems and it is a matter that needs careful consideration. It is not only a problem to the Aboriginal people and to the Government but also it is a matter of concern to those who want to engage in mining ventures. Quite apart, the mining aspect of this law needs broad consideration against the background of the development of the Northern Territory as a whole and the development of Australia as a whole. 
Those of us who sympathise very much with the claims for Aboriginal land rights naturally feel that the Aboriginal people should have the right to say whether mining ventures should be conducted on their land. But there is another side to this question, undoubtedly, and that is not simply defined by talking about national interest. 
There is another attitude, another view. That view ought to be considered in this Parliament if we are to look at the legislation on a bi-partisan basis. These, of course, are only some of the problems which need careful thought before we pass this legislation. I suggest we look at them on a bi-partisan basis and I believe that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs has the greatest expertise to do so. It has a very fine  chairman  who all of us respect and the Committee itself has done great work, as I have already said, in the past. I cannot see any reason whatsoever why the promises of the Government should not be honoured and why some machinery such as this is not set up in order to take on board the views of various people. 
It is important, of course, to bear in mind the nature of the Aboriginal land relationship. The decision of  Mr Justice  Blackburn in the Gove case makes it clear that the relationship cannot be expressed in terms of our laws. It is not in the nature of a proprietary right. The basic relationship is spiritual in nature and finds its origin in a firmly held and traditional belief that areas of land were given to particular groups by their mythological ancestors. It is a relationship which is inalienable. As a result these groups have a feeling of obligation to the land often expressed through ritual, mainly preformed at sacred sites and aimed partly at fructification and renewal of the fertility of the land.  Mr Justice  Blackburn, acknowledging the danger of generalisation, expressed the relationship by saying that the clan belongs to the land rather the land belongs to the clan. When translated into our language the Aboriginal speaks of sites, and areas of land and uses words such as 'my country' or 'the land of such and such a group'. A group which has this relationship is broadly described as the clan. Accordingly, under the findings of  Mr Justice  Blackburn, it is made up of persons speaking a common language and having a common patrilineal descent, but the people who speak the same language may in fact be made up of people of different patrilineal descent and people of the same patrilineal descent may in fact speak different languages. This means that not all the people speaking the same language necessarily have a relationship with the same land nor do all the people of the same patrilineal descent. 
The relationship, basically spiritual but basically related to a small group perhaps or a larger group, results as it were in a relationship which can, if expressed in twentieth century terms, be expressed in terms of ownership and of relationship with particular areas. As was found in the Gove case by  Mr Justice  Blackburn, although the Crown in that case argued otherwise, the boundaries of lands could be denned with a certain degree of particularity. It is important to have that relationship in mind when we come to consider the terms of the Bill. I have tried to summarise it in what I believe is the form in which  Mr Justice  Blackburn considered it in the Gove case. If we do not understand the Aboriginal relationship with land when we come to consider this Bill we may miss the point of some of its provisions. On the other hand, I want to suggest that if we do not have this understanding we will not be as critical of some of the provisions as we otherwise might be. 
The Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill provides in Part II for an Aboriginal land commissioner. His functions are: 
to ascertain, and to report to the Minister on, the needs of Aboriginals, whether as individuals or communities, for land in the Northern Territory to be used for residential, employment or other purposes; 
to ascertain, and to report to the Minister on, the availability of land to satisfy the needs referred to in paragraph (a). 
There are other functions which the Commissioner has. It is interesting to note that they are not confined to Northern Territory Aborigines. I wonder whether the Northern Territory Aboriginal people understand that. Do they understand that this could be a means whereby Aborigines in other parts of Australia could obtain title or rights to land in the Northern Territory? I am not suggesting that it should be exclusive necessarily; all I am asking is whether the people there realise it. Do they understand it? Do they know that it could be used for this purpose? Do they understand that people of the Torres Strait Islands for instance could gain rights to land in the Northern Territory? If they do, well and good; but if they do not and they come to know it, would they object to it? Would they want to make some representation about it? 
Another point that comes out of this particular Part is that the Land Commissioner himself is not given any particular procedures to follow. True it is, he has the power to require people to come before him if he is a judge and to answer questions and produce documents. He has the power to swear people, to take evidence on oath and the like. But there are no requirements of a procedural nature even to ensure basic natural justice in the implementation of inquiries by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. I comment on that only as something that ought to be considered in the ultimate consideration of this particular legislation. The Aboriginal Land Commissioner himself has been operating already. There is nothing which makes his advice- I am not suggesting that there should be; I am merely commenting- mandatory on the Minister. On the other hand, there is nothing in the Bill which requires him to give a report before the Minister acts on other matters. For instance under clauses 46, 47 or 56, the Minister can make grants. But there appears to be nothing which requires the Minister to get the view of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner before those steps are taken. 
The next Part relates to Aboriginal Land Councils. I have already referred to the fact that there are 2 large councils contemplated by this Bill- the Northern Council and the Central Council. I have already expressed the possibility that these may grow into 2 large Aboriginal bureaucracies alongside the already existing bureaucracy of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Whether they will overlap, whether they will intrude into one another, whether they will look over one another's shoulders, I do not know; but I sense the possibility at least of it happening. There is provision for having a smaller land council. But what this Part really raises is the real question of whether ultimately it is advisable to have 2 large councils or whether it would not be a much better proposal to have land councils appropriate to particular communities. 
Because I was in the Gove case I should like to refer to the Yirrkala community which I came to know reasonably well in that case. There are three groups of people who have been living together for a long time. They are land owning groups- I think ten or eleven of them; there may be fewer or more. But the fact is that by and large they have been able to solve their problems together. When Mungaravi wanted to go down and gather some firewood on Roy Didanya's land further south towards Caledon Bay or Port Bradshaw or whatever it was, Roy refused him permission. But Mungaravi did not get upset about it, because they have been living together there for a long time. They had been used between them to solving these problems of permission to go on one another's land together and hunting on one another's land, etc. They were able to work out an arrangement with the Nabalco company over the period prior to 1970. With the assistance of the mission they have been able to put a township there, where they live in apparent peace and harmony. In other words, there appears to be- and I believe there to be- a relatively cohesive community. There, I would suggest, is a strong argument for the existence of a unit for a land council. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will say to me that this was all canvassed in the Woodward report. Maybe it was, and maybe  Mr Justice  Woodward did look into the matter and come to a different view. But the fact is that this is the Australian Parliament and I personally, and we in the Opposition, would like this matter to be ventilated here and the arguments debated and considered before we take this extremely important step. This would apply not only to Yirrkala, but I venture to say it would apply also to Elcho Island which I have visited. It would apply to Milingimbi, which I have not visited and perhaps to Oenpelli. I do not know enough about the matter but I suggest that right through the Northern Territory there are communities of Aboriginal people who have been living together, people who own the land in the traditional sense around about the community, who would be able to solve the problems of user of the land and also the problems of permits on to the land if they were given the task to do so. This could be done without any paid man except perhaps a community adviser. All this could be done without bureaucracy eating up the funds that will come from mining royalties. All this could be done without the heartache of new structures, new organisations established alongside the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. So I suggest to honourable members that there is a very serious problem involved here and one to which we will not do justice if we simply allow this Bill to pass through this Parliament without very careful and further consideration. When I say that, I speak simply as a person who may be new to Aboriginal affairs. My association is recent, but I speak to others like the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who has had years of experience. I know that others opposite have had years of experience. I know, and I believe, that this type of consideration is a matter of great moment to all of us and we ought not to be rushing ahead with it like this. 
There are of course other matters such as the land trusts. The whole of Arnhem Land, the mainland, is to go into one land trust. True, the land trust will consist of Aboriginal people, but the land trust is not coincidental with ownership. There might be literally thousands of traditional clan groups over the Northern Territory which own the land, but the fact is that the land trusts that are going to be set up will bridge many traditional ownership groups. So there is no relationship whatever between the land title- the ownership- and the actual ownership. If we get a title to land, if we own land, we expect to get title in our own name as owner. 
That is fair enough. If it is our land, we want title to it. Why should not the Aboriginal people get title? Why should not somebody close to the traditional Aboriginal owner get the title? I cannot understand the position. I have never been able to understand this aspect of the Woodward report. I had to read it several times to get myself to realise that that is what the report really meant: That people remote from the actual owner should have the title in their names. So the concept of land trusts is also out of step with the grass roots situation. I believe that these things need consideration, representation and report. Maybe the Aboriginal communities can tell me why it ought to be so, if that is what they believe and that is what they want. But I must say that as I have spoken to them wherever I have found them, and through my association with the Gove case, I have come to two very clear decisions. The Aboriginal people who own the land want to say what is to happen to it and who is going to come onto it, whether they are Aboriginal or non-Aboriginal. Of course we know that according to clause 73 of this Bill any Aboriginal person can go on to these lands in the Northern Territory. That is the intention of the Bill. I know it is what  Mr Justice  Woodward recommended. But that does not appear to be the view of the Aboriginal people to whom one speaks in the Northern Territory. 
Does the Minister really want me to say? 
-I have spoken to the people of Yirrkala and Elcho Island. I have spoken to the council at Yirrkala and the council at Elcho Island. I have also spoken to the council at Haasts Bluff. I could not go to every community in the Northern Territory, and it is like putting one's finger into the water to take the temperature, but wherever I went I found the people saying this. When I cross-examined Aboriginals in the land rights case I got the same impression coming back to me. When I went back this year to see these people all I found was that they were telling me what I already knew because I had cross-examined them. I cannot understand why this Bill and why the Woodward Commission are saying these things. Perhaps somebody can explain it to me, to other members on this side of the House and perhaps to some Government supporters. We just cannot understand why the 
Aboriginal people tell us that when we talk to them. 
The same experience was found in Queensland when we were discussing the Bill related to that State. If one talks to the people on the Aboriginal reserves in Queensland they will say the same thing. That Bill was amended last year in order to ensure that councils would have the right to say who would go onto their land. That Bill was amended by agreement in the Senate after weeks and weeks of heartache over it. We endorsed the principle that the local councils on reserves in Queensland would have the right to say who came onto their land, be they Aboriginal or non-Aboriginal. Let us see what  Mr Andrews,  the  President  of the Bagot Community, says. He said: . . . Minister in second reading speech refers to Aboriginal ownership of all Northern Territory Aboriginal reserve. Request immediate advice on position relation to Bagot Also Bagot people not in agreement with granting of power to issue or cancel permit to land councils. Would prefer retain own authority re permit to enter Bagot. Executive also believe distribution of moneys. 
That is just one person expressing the view of his community council. He believes that the Aboriginal people there want the right to say who goes onto their land. He does not refer to Aboriginal or non-Aboriginal people but I would suggest that if we spoke to htm he would probably tell us that he would make no distinction but that he would want to say who goes onto the land. I say this not for the purpose of driving any wedge between Aboriginal people but because I honestly believe it to be the attitude of the Aboriginal people. Therefore I suggest it is a matter of grave concern and something we need to look at closely. 
There is another slightly different aspect of this Bill. It will be remembered that  Mr Justice  Woodward reported that at least 2 kilometres of the sea should be part of the title to the land. The Government has not adopted that recommendation but has used another method of achieving the same result. Clause 74, in part, states: . . . where Aboriginal land adjoins the territorial sea, or internal waters of Australia, appertaining to the Northern Territory, that part of the territorial sea or internal waters so appertaining that is within 2 kilometres of the boundary of the Aboriginal land shall, for the purposes of section 73, be deemed to be part of that Aboriginal land. 
So a person cannot enter that area unless he has a permit. That is the effect of clause 74 in relation to waters. This could have some curious effects. For instance, internal waters would include rivers. It would include the Daly River, East Alligator River and Roper River, all of which happen to be boundaries of reserves. At the moment 
I understand that all of these rivers are used by towns people as well as Aboriginal people. The effect of clause 74 is to deprive those people who have been using those rivers of the right to fish there, to picnic there or to go boating thereactivities in which they have been engaging for a long time. It may be said that that is a side effect, an inconsequential effect perhaps, but I suggest that it would not be inconsequential to the people who have been doing these things for a long time, nor would it be a matter not likely to cause concern. 
It is interesting in relation to clause 74, that  Mr Andrews  of the Bagot Community Council, said: 
Executive cannot agree that section 74 is necessary or desirable and have no wish to penalise any sections of wider community. 
What is he saying? He is saying: Why should the people generally be excluded from the beaches, from the seafront? We know that reserves in the Northern Territory abut the coastline for hundreds of miles. If one takes into account those areas one finds that the whole coastline for hundreds of miles would be taken up either by reserves or by vacant Crown land which could be made the subject of grants to the Aboriginal people. This land would then be subject to this restriction of entry over 2 kilometres of the sea. I simply suggest that this is a matter that could give rise to considerable concern. True it is that the Aboriginal people ought to be entitled to be free from interference with their traditional fishing rights and the like, but if this provision remains people will be excluded from the areas. The owners of boats that go into such areas will have to prove that they were blown in there. All sorts of things will happen. People will be excluded from beaches from which they otherwise would not have been excluded. They will be excluded from rivers from which they otherwise would not have been excluded. This is a question that needs resolution between the people who are non-Aboriginal and the Aboriginal people. There has to be harmony as a result of this Bill and all I am saying is that this is another matter for consideration- another problem. 
I have not mentioned, for instance, the right of innocent passage. I know that clause 74 states: 
This section has effect subject to the obligations of Australia under international law, including obligations under any agreement between Australia and another country or countries. 
But how does the right of innocent passage operate? Is that an exception from clause 74? If it is, why not say so? We have an obligation under international law- under the territorial sea conventionto give the right of innocent passage. All this, as I say, only points to the fact that from one end of this Bill to the other we find the problem of whether particular provisions are going to lead to problems with the Aboriginal people themselves, whether they have had the consideration of the non-Aboriginal community, whether they are going to lead to disharmony, or whether we are going to find a situation where a BUI is brought into law which will cause problems, trouble, havoc and increased bureaucracy of a nature that was never intended. My purpose is not to incite any fear. My purpose is not to do that at all. It is simply to emphasise the fact that legislation of such tremendous importance ought not to be rushed through this Parliament. It ought to go to a committee of this House- a bipartisan committee- so that it can look at it, consider it and give it its urgent and careful attention in the light of representations that are made. 
My time in this debate is almost up. There are other provisions which I would like to have referred to, for instance the provisions in the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill. I have some problems with them. I think that part of the Bill relating to the Councils should be restricted to the Northern Territory. I think that if the provisions are ever extended outside the Northern Territory the Bill is bound to end in trouble because there will be Aboriginal local government councils operating in Queensland. They will be operating in New South Wales and they will be operating in already existing local government areas, and that spells trouble. I suggest to the Minister that that part of the Bill be confined to the Northern Territory. I also suggest that it would be very worth while confining the powers of the Registrar. He seems to be a very significant person. Under this legislation he will exercise tremendous powers over Aboriginal people. He would either have to be a man of considerable expertise or alternatively a person who should not have the powers stated in the Bill. In relation to the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill and the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill I move as an amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be referred to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs: 
to receive representations on the Bill from the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory and other interested persons and organisations in the Northern Territory, and 
to report to the House on the nature and content of such representations'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
I rise simply to make again the point that I made in the second reading debate, namely, that the provisions of Part III are unlimited in their application. This legislation would apply, for instance, to areas in the western part of New South Wales which are represented by Government supporters. It provides that an application for the establishment of an Aboriginal council in a particular area requires the support of only 10 adult Aboriginals. Let us take the town of Bourke as an illustration. We could have the situation in which the local government council of that town, instituted under the Local Government Act, would be operating alongside an Aboriginal council set up under Federal legislation and which covered an Aboriginal community living near the town of Bourke. Such a situation could only lead to conflict; it could only lead to misunderstanding. 
I do not know of any discussions that have taken place between the- Commonwealth Government and the State governments on this matter. If the State governments were happy to allow Aboriginal councils to look after health, sewerage, water.supply and electricity, as clause 11(3) suggests, and other matters, well and good. This would be a satisfactory arrangement if the State governments were in agreement. But as I understand it that has not happened. Therefore may I suggest that for the sake of good relations within the federation and for ease of administration Part III be limited to the Northern Territory. We could see how it worked there. We could ascertain what expertise the Aboriginal Councils were able to develop there and then, if thought fit, we could extend the provisions of this part of the Bill to the rest of Australia. At this stage may I once again press on the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les 
Johnson) the thought that I pressed on him during the second reading debate, namely, that Part III be limited in that way. 
I want to advert to the power of the Registrar. It appears that the Registrar is to be a very powerful and very important person. He will consult with the Aboriginal people. He will be able to exercise a great deal of power. Not only will he inform Aboriginal people in the terms of clause 12 but also he will explain to them the purpose of the application, the boundaries of the area which is the subject of the application, and the functions of the proposed Aboriginal council for that area. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has already pointed out the complicated nature of this Bill. The problems associated with explaining to Aboriginal communities the terms of the Bill will be very great. This will also be the case with respect to explaining the effect of Part III, and of course other parts of this Bill, to adult Aboriginals who are of the view that , an Aboriginal council should be established. Not only will the 10 adult Aboriginals concerned with the application have to understand the effect of Part III; so also will adult Aboriginals living in the.area to which the application relates. Part III is fairly broad in what it contemplates. 
I emphasise that the Registrar seems to us to be a very significant person. I do not know what range in the Public Service he is to occupy, but I think it is worth bringing into the debate the fact that he will be a very significant person. Therefore he needs to be highly qualified. Perhaps the Minister intends to see that this is so, but I would like some explanation of his intention. 
I wish to address some remarks to the appointment of an Aboriginal land commissioner. It is another illustration of what I was talking about yesterday, which is the failure of the Government in the presentation of this measure by forcing it on for debate before we have sufficient time to give adequate consideration to the Bill. A number of criticisms have been levelled by Aborigines- a lot of them have been levelled by de-tribalised Aboriginal people- about the Aboriginal land commissioner as a functionary appointed under Part II of the Bill. As we know, in the Woodward report the functions of the commissioner, or the commission as it was called in the report, were quite different from those expounded in clause 5 of the Bill. In paragraph 733 of the Woodward report the recommendations are summarised. The paragraph states: 
an Aboriginal Land Commission for the Northern Territory, or an arm of a national body, should be established with the following functions: 
Then a number of functions are set out, some of which are included in the Bill, but they are in quite different terms from those which are set in clause 5 of the Bill. 
The land commission as recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward is not just one person as this Bill suggests by the use of the term 'Aboriginal Land Commissioner'. 1 understand that  Mr Justice  Woodward had in mind a body which consisted of expertise in the area, that is to say, there would be a number of people who would sit on the commission. I understand that some of those people might indeed be Aboriginal people. That does not sound such a foolish idea but for some reason in Part II an Aboriginal land commissioner is established. He can be part-time or 
I assume that the Commissioner who has been appointed,  Mr Justice  Ward, will continue if this Bill passes into law. He will sit by himself as a judge. It is true that under clause 19 he may employ consultants. I understand that he started off with the view that he did not need consultants, but he is gradually coming to the view that he needs some help in his task. That rather emphasises that there might be some point in what  Mr Justice  Woodward said. However, the point of my remarks is simply to bring to the surface again that really we are not getting down to debating the real issues which will enable us to pass a law that is most effective. If there are among the Aboriginal people some who feel that there ought to be representation on an Aboriginal land commission as distinct from having a commissioner, I should like to hear about it. I should like to know why. I should like to know also what expertise is available among Aboriginal people which can be provided to a commission. I think it is tremendously important that the Aboriginal people become more and more involved in the administration of their own affairs. That is one point I wish to make. 
We do not have, as we sometimes have with complex measures, an explanatory memorandum. There is nothing to tell us the reason for the change between the Woodward report and this Bill. I would have liked to know, not for any mischievous purpose but merely to understand what it was all about. Other aspects of this matter trouble me a little. Among other things, clause 5 provides: 
1 ) The functions of the Commissioner are 
on an application being made to the Commissioner by or on behalf of the traditional Aboriginal owners of land, being Crown land, to inquire into, and to report to the Minister on, the desirability of securing that land for the use of those traditional owners; 
That is a very broad statement of the functions of the Commissioner. If a particular traditional group says that it wishes to lay claim to a particular area of Crown land that is all right in itself and it is very proper that the Commission or the Commissioner give careful thought to the subject and to the boundaries of the traditional areas. 
The phrase that troubles me however is 'the desirability'. We have emphasised in debate 
I suggest that the Bill is defective in clause 5 not only in that it ignores the possible need for Aboriginal expertise on a commission but also in that it fails to direct the Commission to take into account the broader public interest. Unless this broader public interest is taken into accountthis came through in what the honourable member for the Northern Territory said- and unless there is harmony in the implementation of this measure we will heap trouble upon trouble. There has to be a relationship which is healthy from the beginning. I know to some degree that this will be experimental. I can appreciate that point. Nevertheless we are not thinking sufficiently about the ways of achieving the best result initially if we simply push this sort of measure into law in this country, and this is all the more so in this case where, for instance, we do not even have any explanation of the reasons why there is a material departure from the scheme laid down by  Mr Justice  Woodward. However, as I understand it, this Bill is to go forward. It is to be pushed through today. We will 2824 REPRESENTATIVES 5 November 1975  Aboriginal Land (N.T.) Bill  not be assisted in any way. We will not be told why the Aboriginal people will not have any interest on the councils. We will not be told about why there is a departure from the Woodward Commission report. 
-I suppose that clause 2 1 is, in a sense, the most critical clause in the Bill. That is why I have asked the Committee to deal with it separately. The clause establishes 2 land councils- the Northern Aboriginal Land Council and the Central Aboriginal Land Council. I understand that those land councils have been operating for some time now. If I remember rightly, they were financed by appropriations in the last Budget and there are appropriations for them in the current Appropriations Bills which, I think, are now before the Senate. The establishment of those land councils, as I intimated in what I said yesterday, does throw up a fundamental question that needs very careful reconsideration. I realise that views have been expressed in the report of the Woodward Commission that to some extent support this concept; but, when one takes clause 21 with other clauses, such as clause 23, and has in mind the extent to which these land councils will operate, will consult and in effect will make decisions on behalf of a large number of Aboriginal communities, one cannot but envisage an extremely large and growing bureaucracy. I use this word 'bureaucracy' because I suppose I have a certain aversion to bureaucrats when they are not necessary. I do not believe in the principle that they should just sort of accumulate. I would rather see people involved in productive endeavour. I would also like to see the Aboriginal people- I believe they agree with this- making their own decisions and making those decisions as close to themselves as is possible. 
Quite frankly if the Yirrkala council, the Elcho Island council or the Millingimbi council now thinks that it can fit in with the Northern Land Council, I think it is rather that it has been convincedif it has been convinced- that this is something it can go along with instead of something that it would initially choose. I cannot see why the people at Yirrkala or the other places I mentioned, or for that matter the people in communities close to Alice Springs, are not better served in terms of self-management, in terms of their own involvement, in terms of expenditure of money or the needless expenditure of money if they themselves are making the decisions about how their land is to be used. 
I cannot understand why it is necessary- I do not believe they ultimately know why it is necessaryto have a large land council which covers the whole of one-half of the Northern Territory to make these decisions about what is to happen to their land. If there is a project at Yirrkala why cannot they do what they have been doing in the past? Why can they not sit down in their town council house, as they have within the Darnbu Association, and talk about it? They have their community adviser there. He seems a reasonable sort of person. He seems to understand them. There is another lady there- an American lady whom I met. She seems to help them in what they are deciding. If they want any help from  Mr Allum,  the Department of Aboriginal Affairs man at Gove, or Warren Paul they get it. They are both quite capable men; they are administrators and are experienced. They can sit down with them and work out their problems. If there is some question as to one of the clans wanting to move to an outer area, as the Galpu or the Djapu people are doing, they have consultations about it. Why should there be all this talk about going back to Darwin to have a chat with the Northern Land Council? I do not understand the necessity for it. I can only see a complication to the Aboriginal life style. Why can they not go on doing what they have been doing in the past? Why should they be interfered with by  Mr X, Mr Y  or  Mr Z  from some other community? It just does not seem to recognise their land associations close to the grass roots nor does it appear to me to be common sense. 
That is the basic reason why I am so insistent about this. I have remained insistent about it for the reason that the clause does not seem to recognise the Aboriginal people where they are but wants to put on top of them some bureaucratic structure. Once people have to go from Darwin to Millingimbi to discuss a proposal about what is going to happen to the land of the Aborigines and once you start saying that you have to give them some building or some architectural advice or you have to give them some other sort of advice or assistance, naturally you are going to start building within that large land council another bureaucracy. You cannot avoid it. There will be people, clerks and others who will have to service it. There will be field officers who will have to go out, sit down with and talk to the Aboriginal people. I do not understand why this is necessary. I cannot understand why they cannot get the full benefit of the money that is being provided to them without putting bureaucrats between them and this Parliament. I cannot understand it, because I am afraid I have great faith in the people at Yirrkala to make up their own minds about these matters given the assistance they would ordinarily attempt to get from the Department or perhaps from some outside consultants. 
Clause 2 1 does raise a basic issue and it is a matter to which we should be giving very serious consideration. I know that in one of the clauses the Minister has the power to establish smaller land councils. I would much prefer- I believe that this is the view of the Opposition, because ultimately we would want to hear representations in relation to this- a provision which gives a directive to the Minister to establish land councils in accordance with certain criteria would enable him to define the area, and define it in all probability in most cases in relation to existing communities. It is possible to define the land ownership that attaches to a place like Yirrkala, Elcho Island and other places. It may be more difficult in areas further south around Alice Springs- I do not know- but certainly in relation to those areas a small land council would be quite appropriate. 
There does not seem to be any need even for an eastern Arnhem Land council. That does not seem to provoke the necessity for a decision making body away from the local group. True it may be that there ought to be some sort of expertise that might be collected at a central point so that the various Aboriginal communities can be serviced in an adequate way- I can understand that- and so that they can all refer to that centre where it is a common type of service. But apart from that sort of advisory function from a central body I suggest to honourable members opposite that this clause, critical as it is, needs very careful reconsideration. I do suggest that the basis upon which it ought to be reconsidered is to redraft it so that the Minister will be directed to establish land councils according to criteria which, as I say, will result in what basically are those local communities being the land councils. Those communities are used to sorting out the problems. They have been doing it for a long time. They will sort out the problems of permits. They will sort out the problems of land use and land ownership. They are groups and clans working and living together and they will be able to operate in a natural way- natural in the real sense- for Aboriginal people. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be referred to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs: 
to receive representations on the Bill from the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory and other interested persons and organisations in the Northern Territory, and 
to report to the House on the nature and content of such representations. 
I have already spoken in relation to this motion in the speech that I delivered yesterday. 
-Clause 24 provides: 
A Land Council shall compile, and maintain, a register setting out- 
the names of the persons who, in the opinion of the Council, are the traditional Aboriginal owners of Aboriginal land in the area of the Land Council; and 
in relation to each group of traditional Aboriginal owners, a description of the boundaries of the land of which they are such owners. 
That is the only measure in the Bill that attempts to give land rights, but the fact is that it gives no rights at all. It does not confer rights on anybody. All it says is that a body called a Central Land Council or a Northern Land Council or some other land council shall maintain a register. It gives nobody a right to appear before any tribunal. It gives no community a right to appear before any tribunal. It sets up no procedures even of a minimal nature to enable a particular Aboriginal clan to go before a council and assert a right to be heard. It does not require notice to be given to anybody that a council is to sit and determine a question. It guarantees in no way whatsoever land rights to Aboriginal people. It is a broad clause which gives a discretion to a land council and no more. It says 'in the opinion of the Council' and that means, I take it, that the council has an absolute discretion in the matter. Clause 25 states: 
Where a Land Council is informed that there is, or there may arise, a dispute with respect to land in the area of the Council between persons to whom this section applies, the Land Council shall use its best endeavours by way of conciliation for the settlement or prevention, as the case may be, of that dispute. 
It then goes on: 
Where proceedings are commenced before a court with respect to a dispute of a kind referred to in sub-section (2), the judge or magistrate constituting the court may, if he thinks it appropriate, adjourn the proceedings at any time for the purpose of affording a Land Council the opportunity of undertaking conciliation . . . 
Again that provision guarantees nothing. There is not the right anywhere in this Bill to take a question to a court. Land rights are supposed to be secured to the Aboriginal people under the 
Bill, but nowhere is there a right for anybody to maintain that they, according to this Bill, are entitled to a particular area of land. The procedure therefore is completely without any form that gives land rights. It is completely without any requirement of natural justice. It gives no right whatsoever to the Aboriginal people. Therefore, one asks this very basic question: Why is this measure supposed to guarantee land rights to Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory? That is a very basic question. It is one of the questions that we ought to be looking at. It is another reason, of course, why this Bill should have been referred to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, but the Government in its great wisdom does not want this to happen. It does not want us to consider these basic questions; and the question I have raised is a very basic one. I look forward to some explanation which will clarify my thinking on the subject. 
So far I have not been able to find a provision that guarantees land rights to the Aboriginal clans. Land rights are left solely in the hands of a body which is very broadly based and which will, if a dispute arises, I would think, shatter the Aboriginal communities in a place like Arnhem Land. It is no answer simply to say that because Aborigines are used to sorting out things they can agree on boundaries. It may well be that that is so, but there will come a time when a group is ignored, or alternatively there will come a time when a question of Aboriginal custom arises. Let me give an example. The Lamameri clan was mentioned in the Gove case. The clan owns some land in the Gove Peninsula. It turned out, when we looked into the matter, that another clan, the Gumaitj, were looking after the land. Some of the Gumaitj people believed that the land was theirs. But the fact was that the land was being looked after by the Gumaitj for the Lamameri. The Lamameri at that stage- I do not know what the situation is now- consisted of 2 elderly women who had no sons. The result was, in other words, that the patrilineal descent group had come to an end. There was a situation ripe for some sort of disputation. Some Gumaitj people would be saying it is Gumaitj land; other people would say that they were looking after it for the Lamameri. 
Of course we know that over a period the question of title to land and the rights of people to particular land under Aboriginal lore would result in a loss of memory on the part of people as to who were the old traditional owners of the land. The question would soon be forgotten over a period. What do we find? We find in these 2 clauses no basic guarantee of land rights; no basic guarantee of natural justice to those who may require some sort of a hearing; and no independent body set up in order to determine matters. Those are the bases of rights. If we intend giving land rights we should recognise those facts. Do not let us imagine that because Aborigines traditionally seem to resolve their problems problems will not arise in the future. They will arise in the future particularly when questions of mineral rights and the like are important and significant. Problems will arise in the future in relation to fishing areas. I can think of one problem. If Aboriginal people, for instance, are to be given rights in relation to 2 kilometres of sea how will the area be divided if the Aboriginal lands meet one another at the shore line? Will we use the international equidistant line as is used in international conventions? Of course not, because that would not be part of the Aboriginal custom. 
In other words all sorts of problems lie beneath the surface here that need to be considered and looked at. I do not raise them simply on a technical basis. I raise them so that for the future- as we are laying guidelines for the future- we guarantee the rights in the proper way. So, I again implore the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  to rethink his attitude. He may rethink his attitude between the time this Bill goes from the Committee stage to the third reading stage. I implore him to reconsider the Government's attitude not to send this extremely important Bill to what is, as I have already said, a very significant Committee- our own House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. 
-I do not want to reply to what was emotive in what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  said. I do not regard those comments as appropriate to a Committee debate, but I do want to explain what I meant because he did not seem to understand me. Obviously there is a land trust and there is a title vested in the land trust. But the title to the land covered by the land trust may be the whole of Arnhem Land or the whole of the mainland. Obviously within Arnhem Land there are many, many land owning clansperhaps lineal descent groups, call them what you will. All I am saying- this is quite a clear proposition- is that in the legislation there is nothing that guarantees to the particular traditional owners their right to the particular land that belongs to them. 
There is nothing in clause 24 or anywhere else in the Bill that says that that register, for instance, is conclusive evidence of their title to the land. There is nothing that says that in 10 years time another group may not come along and say: 'Look, that is not your land at all. The Land Council was wrong'. That is what I am talking about. Until you can guarantee to the particular group its right to particular land you have not given them land rights at all. All you have done, just to take an example, is instead of leaving it in the Crown to hold, say, the Arnhem 
Land reserve you have put it in a trust for the Aboriginal people. That is in a sense a mere matter of form so far as land rights are concerned. It does not guarantee the title to a particular group. I mentioned the Gumaiti the Lamameri or the Rirrdjgu at Yirrkala. Each of them is a separate entity entitled to identifiable land, as  Mr Justice  Blackburn found in the Gove case. That is what I am talking about. I am saying that in this Bill there is nothing that guarantees the right of particular people to the title to land. 
The other thing I was saying in relation to clause 25- perhaps I did not make myself clear enough- was that you cannot have disputes about land unless you have a right to land. That is what disputes are about. But there is nothing in the measure that gives rights to particular groups, to particular traditional owners. They have no rights at all in this legislation as far as I can find. It is true that the title is in the land trust, but that land trust is not coincidental with the land owning group according to Aboriginal lore. I only add that not to bore the Committee but simply to explain what I meant and why I feel that these provisions, which are really the whole basis of the land rights question, need further consideration. I cannot find anything in the Woodward Commission's report that really clarifies why  Mr Justice  Woodward came to this conclusion. I know he rejected the idea that we do not have a court or a tribunal and I am not suggesting such a thing. I acknowledge the need for informal proceedings but there are certain basic rights like the right to be heard, the right to know that there is a hearing, the right to bring some evidence, for instance. There are certain basic rights that we all think are important, and they are just as important to the Aboriginal people in the context of giving them land rights as they are to us. 
Having the experience of the Gove case it would be stupid of me to say that we have to stick by the rules of evidence. I do not mean that at all. What I mean is that these clauses do not ensure the basic land right about which we are talking. When I say that I am not saying it for white people or detribalised people or anybody in particular; I am saying it for the Aboriginal people who want the right to land in the Northern Territory. I want them to have it. It is my view, and I believe it is the Opposition's view, that they should have the right to the land on the reserves in the Northern Territory and that they should be able to exercise that right. If it is entrenched upon in years to come they should be able to say: 'Hey, that is our land. You cannot come over that. We have rights over it'. That is not guaranteed by this Bill. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 26 to 28-by leave-taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 29 (Membership of Land Council). 
I draw attention to clause 31 (5) which gives the member presiding a deliberative vote and, in the event of votes being equal, a casting vote. It is a rather material matter because, if the  Chairman  and the  Deputy Chairman  fell out, it could result in disputation. I refer to sub-clause (5) which gives the casting vote. I suggest that it is a matter which should be given further consideration. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 39 to 44- by leave- taken together. 
I have already addressed the Committee in relation to the problem of there being no land right. I emphasise this again because I think it is significant. Clause 39 (2) states: 
A notice published under sub-section ( 1 ) shall- 
specify the name of the Land Trust; 
identify the Aboriginal communities or groups for whose benefit land is to be held by the Land Trust; 
We know that the groups have to be identified by the Land Council. Presumably the Land Trust cannot be set up and this notification cannot be given until the Aboriginal communities or groups for whose benefit land is to be held by the Land Trust are identified. Presumably this information is in the register that is set up by the Land Council. Clause 40 ( 1 ) states: 
The functions of a Land Trust are- 
to exercise its powers as owner of land referred to in paragraph (a) for the benefit of the Aboriginal communities or groups concerned. 
The notification specified in clause 39 (2) is to set out also the boundaries of the land to be held by the Land Trust. It does not set out the boundaries of the land held by each of the Aboriginal communities or groups for whose benefit the land is to be held by the Land trust. So, the land title does not do any more than identify- in a statutory way through this clause- the communities for whose benefit the land is to be held and the particular areas which shall be held. It is only when a particular group can relate to particular land that it has a title to that particular land. Otherwise the title, as specified under this part of the Bill, is in the very broadest terms. I again urge reconsideration of these provisions in terms of the very concept of land rights for particular groups or communities and in relation to particular land. There may be an answer that could be made but I cannot find it. I have studied this legislation, I think I am familiar with it, and I cannot find a right given to a particular group. What I said earlier arises in relation to clauses 39 and 40. I do not think I need to say any more about the fact that land trusts are to be directed by the Land Council so that the land owner really exercises no rights at all. The land ownerthat is, the Land Trust- has the title. The Land Trust is to do what the Land Council tells it to do. That is an inversion of the ordinary situation. Usually if one owns land one has a right to say what happens to it. 
This Bill seems to invert the concept of ownership by giving the right to say what shall happen to the land not to the owner of it or even to the trustee for the owner but to a group of people who, true, have to consult with the local traditional owners and be satisfied that the local traditional owners do not oppose the particular project. Of course, all that that means is that the local group has no right of initiation. The local land owning group has no right of initiation of a particular proposal; all it can do is to say: 'We do not agree with the Land Council's proposal'. It cannot say: 'We are going to do something with our land'. Wherever one looks in the Bill one finds a problem in terms of land rights, land ownership in the ordinary sense that we would understand it, and I believe in the ordinary sense that Aboriginal people would understand it. In other words, that is our land, we say what happens on it, and who goes onto it. Throughout this Bill one gets this problem recurring. Clauses 39 and 40 are another illustration of this. 
-There is just one other matter to which I meant to refer. I notice that in these clauses there is no provision which resolves the decision-making process of the Land Trust. The Land Trust is directed to do certain things and can at various stages make some pretty important decisions. For instance, under clause 55 (2) it can make a decision to grant a lease or licence with the consent of the Council and it has a discretion. 
-Clause 55 (2). That is an instance of a clause under which it can make - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  We are not dealing with clause 55 (2). 
No, but I am giving an instance of what I am referring to. The clauses with which we are dealing ought to provide for the resolution of the decision making process. For instance, can the land trust operate on a majority vote? There is nothing in the clause that says so. Trustee law, from recollection, requires trustees to act unanimously I should not think that if there is a large number of trustees one would want them to be unanimous on a particular decision. 
Maybe. I do not know how that comes in. If it is to be dealt with I would have thought that it should be dealt with as the other provisions of the Act deal with a very important matter in relation to land councils under clause 31. The decision making processes of the land trusts ought to be dealt with in these provisions of the Bill. I draw that to the Minister's attention and suggest again that here is room for an amendment. 
The Government is aware of the need to provide adequate legal aid services for those in need. We are also aware of the need to provide legal aid services in a way that will ensure they are delivered in the most efficient and economic manner. On 16 January I issued a Press statement indicating my intention to consider the question of legal aid in Australia. Shortly prior to that I had had discussions with the Law Council of Australia on the question of legal aid. On Friday of this week I shall be holding discussions in Canberra on this matter with the Attorney-General of each State. That meeting will be devoted almost entirely to the question of legal aid. My concern at this stage is to look at the rationalisation of legal aid services throughout the Commonwealth. The future of the Australian Legal Aid Office will be taken into account in that consideration. 
-I am told by the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department that he received a letter from the Chief Electoral Officer on or about 12 December. 
-I cannot, of course, give the assurance that the honourable member seeks. But the judiciary, as is its custom, has shown its independence in recent weeks. We saw something of that independence in the Senate on Tuesday last. Some State judges seem to be troubled by the section of the Family Law Act that requires them not to wear robes. The result has been that judges in South Australia and Queensland have continued to wear robes. Even in the Australian Capital Territory a judge has continued to wear robes. A judge of the Supreme Court of Victoria felt that the section- I think it is section 97- might be invalid so far as it was a direction to him. As a result of that, the matter has gone to the High Court and the validity of that provision will soon be contested. 
May I also direct the attention of honourable members to a rather more serious matter, namely, the fact that the general validity of the Family Law Act is now in dispute. Because of a question that was raised in South Australia- I think in a case relating to custody with no associated divorce proceedings- section 40A of the Judiciary Act has operated to cause a question as to the validity of the Family Law Act to be before the High Court. That is a much more serious question. It was one that was raised in debate in the House. 
Unfortunately the general validity of the Act was not allowed to be raised by the States if they had wished to do so prior to the Act coming into force. The result is, of course, that the Family Law Act is to that extent under question. If the High Court was to declare the Act wholly or largely invalid there would be serious consequences both from the point of view of the administration of the Act in its extent and from the point of view of the Family Law Court concept. The Government, in accordance with section 41 of that Act, did attempt to get the State governments to set up State Family Law Courts under section 41 by arrangement with the Commonwealth Government. No State other than Western Australia has agreed to enter into such an arrangement. As a result of that the Government is proceeding to appoint further Family Law Court judges to take up the work of the Family Law Court as it proceeds. I make that statement perhaps not in direct answer to the question but to indicate to honourable members that the Family Law Act and its administration are constantly under review but the Act is also under review in the High Court. 
The answer is yes, I have put in the form in relation to the current Parliament. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Immediately following the introduction of this Bill, I shall be introducing a Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1 904- 1 97 5. The subject matter of the 2 Bills is related and I propose to refer to both Bills in this speech. Honourable members will recall that similar though not identical Bills were passed by the House of Representatives in October last year. These Bills were introduced following the announcement of the decision to appoint  Mr Justice  A. E. 
Woodward, O.B.E., as head of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. The Government has previously announced its decision to proceed with this appointment and the passage of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill is necessary in order that the appointment may proceed. 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill will ensure that the appointment of a judge as Director-General of Security does not affect his tenure of office as a judge, or the salary, allowances and other rights and privileges that he has by virtue of his judicial office. Service of a judge in this position is to count as judicial service for all purposes. This proposal is similar to other provisions in legislation establishing a statutory office where it is intended to appoint a person holding judicial office to that statutory office. A similar provision was contained in the Judiciary (Diplomatic Representation) Act 1942 which provided for the appointment of  Sir Owen  Dixon, then a justice of the High Court of Australia, to be Australian Minister to the United States. Section 13 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 similarly enables a judge to be appointed as a Commissioner and to retain his judicial status and the rights which attach to that status. 
A judge appointed as Director-General is to receive such additional salary and annual allowance as are necessary to bring his salary and annual allowance to the level payable to the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court.  Mr Justice  Woodward now receives such additional remuneration by virtue of his office as  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. Provision is made for the salary of the DirectorGeneral to be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal in the situation where he is not a judge. The second Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, provides for an increase of one in the number of judges in the Australian Industrial Court so that the Court will consist of a Chief Judge and 10 other judges. This will allow the court to operate if necessary at its present strength during the period of  Mr Justice  Woodward's appointment with ASIO which will be for a number of years. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam) adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam) adjourned. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is no; therefore answers to the rest of the honourable member's question are unnecessary. 
When the honourable member puts his question in a respectful way I will answer it. 
in reply- Most, if not all, of the points that could have been made in this debate have been made. However, I think I owe it to honourable members to say something about the points that have been made and also to say how appreciative I am to hear such a constructive debate. A great deal has been said about the appointment of a judge as the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I think it is clear enough that a judge can perform this service and the Government whilst it was in Opposition acceded to the idea that  Mr 
Justice Woodward should become the DirectorGeneral of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. That appointment is shortly to be confirmed and the purpose of this legislation is to enable that to go ahead. Obviously the personality of the person is tremendously important. The Government, as did the previous Government, has confidence in the capacity of  Mr Justice  Woodward to bring to bear in this organisation those attributes which are obviously necessary. They are not always attributes which are essential to the judicial function. This position requires a great deal of practical common sense and a great administrative capacity. These are gifts which  His  Honour has demonstrated he has in the experience that I think all of us have had with him. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said somebody was troubled that the wording of the relevant clause in this Bill might lead one to the view that he is still a judge and therefore in a position of conflict because he was exercising his function as a judge by retaining his style and title and status as a judge and also exercising ministerial and administrative functions. I think that the Leader of the Opposition stood that point up to knock it over because clearly, although  His  Honour retains his status as a judge, what he will be doing here is what the Act tells him he has to do, namely, to administer the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. There can be no question of his exercising a judicial function. A point was made- I think by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who spoke last for the Opposition- about whether the fact that he was a judge might prevent this chamber under standing order 75 from criticising him in a proper way for what he did in his capacity because he was a judge. I would not think that it would have that effect at all. It seems to me that he would be occupying the position as Director-General albiet retaining his status as a judge and he would be open to whatever proper criticism could be brought to bear on the performance of that function. 
The Leader of the Opposition also drew attention to the fact that this Bill is different from the Bill that his Government introduced because it was not introduced in a context where the organisation was going to be subject to the control of the Prime Minister. It is the view of the Government that the administrative control of ASIO is properly left with the Attorney-General and not properly with the Prime Minister. It is an organisation which requires consideration from time to time. It is, as I hope to indicate in a moment, independent. It was intended to be independent, and it is truly independent. But there has to be some form of ministerial responsibility in relation to it, held by some person who is aware to some degree of what is transpiring in the organisation. I think it is true that when the organisation was set up in 1949 that was intended when  Mr Chifley,  the then Prime Minister, said: 
The service will function under the administrative control of the Attorney-General's Department, but the head of the service will have direct access to me on all matters of moment affecting security that he thinks should be considered by the Government, or on behalf of the Government. 
That view was adopted, of course, by  Sir Robert  Menzies in 1956 when he introduced the legislation which is being amended. He said this: 
The Attorney-General is the Minister ordinarily responsible for the security service, and he will administer the Act. The Director-General, however, has, and has had, from the inauguration of the service in 1949, direct access to the Prime Minister in security matters affecting the Government as a whole. 
The Bill makes no attempt to specify the manner in which, or the degree to which, ministerial authority should be exercised in relation to the service. It is clearly impossible, and in any event undesirable, for a Minister to exercise in this field the same degree of supervision and authority that he exercises in his own department. 
There I think  Sir Robert  was underlining another fact which has to be taken into account. 
In the legislation the independence of the organisation is, I think, guaranteed. That is what the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  was no doubt referring to when he was expressing concern that this organisation remain independent. Section 5 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act- I shall refer only to the parts that are relevant- states: 
1 ) The functions of the Organization are- 
to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence . . . and, at the discretion of the DirectorGeneral, to communicate any such intelligence to such persons, and in such manner, as the DirectorGeneral considers to be in the interests of security; 
to advise Ministers, where the Director-General is satisfied that it is necessary. 
In other words, the functions of the organisation are indeed circumscribed by the Act which sets it up. The reason  Sir Robert  Menzies said: 'It is clearly impossible, and in any event undesirable, for a Minister to exercise in this field the same degree of supervision and authority that he exercises in his own department', is no doubt in part attributable to the fact that the DirectorGeneral's independence is guaranteed by the Act itself. The Minister who is administering the Act clearly enough has a function. He ought to know in broad terms what is going on. In the past there have been conditions of service which have subjected the Director-General to lawful directions given by the Attorney-General. I think it is unfortunate that in the past that provision may have been used for actions which were not within the terms of that clause. However, the fact is that the clause is saying no more than that the Attorney-General, as the person administering the Act, may find it necessary from time to time- I am speaking of hypothetical situations- to say to the Director-General: 'You are clearly not in this particular matter acting within your functions'. It would be a lawful direction if the Attorney-General were to say to the Director-General: 'You must keep within your functions'. That in effect is the sort of circumstance to which that type of provision is directed. It is not adding to the provisions of the Act. It is not intended to make the Director-General subject to political direction at all. It is simply, as it were, a provision designed to ensure- I am referring again to the given hypothetical circumstancesthat the security organisation stays within its brief. That is the purpose of such a provision. I personally do not see it as a measure which intrudes upon the independence of the organisation or which offends in the respect in which the honourable member for Isaacs indicated. 
There is no power in the Attorney-General to direct the organisation. Certain staff member are dealt with by the Act and the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department has a function to play in relation to them. Nowhere in the Act is the AttorneyGeneralindeed, he is not mentioned in the Act- expressly given power to direct the organisation.  His  relationship to this particular Act comes from the Administrative Arrangements Order. Because he is the Minister nominated he is the person who has the general supervision of the Act. No power of direction is given at all. Of course, in hypothetical circumstances- this is the important thing- if the organisation is clearly going outside its brief the Minister responsible should see it as his function to say to the organisation: 'Keep within the brief. That is the sort of purpose to which the clause referred to by my friend, the honourable member for Isaacs, is directed. 
The Leader of the Opposition raised some semantic problems. First of all, he was troubled about the use of the term 'Director-General'. He said that the term 'Director-General' would be used in cases where there were directors in every State. The fact is that there are regional directors of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in every State, and so in a real sense he proves the point that we are taking. Why change the name? It is very appropriate to call him Director-General. He has been so called since 1949.  Mr Chifley  called him Director-General; we propose to continue to call him DirectorGeneral. 
The next semantic problem which the Leader of the Opposition had- it is one which one might expect him to raise- was in relation to the enacting words in the Bill: 
Be it enacted by the Queen, and the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia . . . 
He was troubled by the comma. Let me assure him that the comma was put in in case it be thought that we were referring to the Queen of the Commonwealth of Australia. We did not want to offend him in particular, because it will be recalled that in the Royal Style and Titles Act 1973, on which I was pleased to advise him at the time, the form of the royal style and titles was: 
Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God Queen of Australia . . . 
There he has it- 'Queen of Australia'. The reason that the comma is inserted is simply to avoid confusion. 
And why shouldn't we call this place the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia? It happens to be a legal document. It is an Act of Parliament and it is appropriate to refer to the body politic- the Commonwealth of Australia. That is what we set up in 1900, that is what we have, and that is what we are going to have for a very long time- the Commonwealth of Australia. Nobody in the Opposition, except he takes to the streets with force, is likely to bring about the disintegration of this body politic called the Commonwealth of Australia. We might as well settle down to the fact that we have it and retain the name as a reminder. Once we forgot that we are a federation we will forget our responsibilities as members in this House and as members of the Australian community. If we do not make the federation work soon in a real sense the whole of this country's fabric will be undermined. There are some people who think that it is a choice between centralism and State rights. That is not the choice at all; the choice in Australia is whether the federation survives as a federation on the one hand or, on the other, whether we have a series of nation states. That is the choice and none other. When we settle down to that fact this country of ours will go ahead. That is why the policy of co-operative federalism is so significant and important to us. 
I refer to some of the concluding points of the honourable member for Isaacs. I think I have dealt with the independence of the office as he was asserting it. The honourable member suggested that the Director-General should hold the office for a fixed term which is nonrenewable. He also said that controls should be bipartisan and that it is essential to rely on the independence of the office. Of course the honourable member is quite entitled to make these points, and he did make them with great force. There may be something to be said for the view that there should be a new broom in the Organisation every five or seven years. No doubt that is a matter to which the present Government will give some attention. At the moment I just do not quite follow the idea of bipartisan control. I do not see how, with ministerial responsibility as it is in our situation in the Australian Parliament, we would be able properly to run an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation except in the way that it is run at the moment in its relationship with the Parliament. Somebody has to be responsible. There has to be a responsible Minister. 
I say with respect that the idea of bipartisan control is somewhat academic. I think that in the situation in which we find ourselves a government which is responsible for the security of the country must have responsibility for the security organisation. In exercising that responsibility the Government must recognise that a security organisation must not descend into the political arena. I think that has been recognised since the Organisation was established in 1949. It was recognised during the period of the previous coalition governments. Most of the time, but not all of the time, it was recognised by the previous Labor Government. But one thing is essential, and that is that the Government have control of and be responsible for its own Security Organisation because it alone can guarantee what other honourable members and I have referred to as the necessary element, namely, the independence of the Organisation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the question is this: When I answered the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on Tuesday I understood his question to be framed on the basis that advice had been sought from my Department and that the other questions flowed from that. On that basis I did not answer the rest of his question. That is the explanation I gave, that is the explanation I give, and that is the answer to the honourable member's question. 
My attention has not been drawn to that report. However, the question of privacy is being kept well in mind. I think it was indicated that before the question of privacy was referred to the Law Reform Commission it would be discussed at a meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. That meeting, subject to matters such as air strikes, which prevented a meeting on legal aid taking place last Friday, will take place on Friday, 5 March. As a result I hope to be able to settle terms of reference on the question of privacy to be referred to the Law Reform Commission. The question of the use of tape recordings as evidence in proceedings is a very important one. Advanced technology does affect the rules of evidence and the admissibility of evidence which is different from conventional evidence. Insofar as that is relevant to the question of privacy, I would think that it would automatically come within the purview of the Law Reform Commission's consideration. Insofar as it does not, I understand it is a question which is being given consideration by some officials in my Department. I do not have precise details, but I am aware generally of the fact that some consideration is being given to that question. 
During last week I became aware of information which involved the 2 Iraqi visitors mentioned in the Press which led me to the view that a serious breach or breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations may have been committed in Australia. Offences against those regulations carry a penalty of $100,000 or 5 years' imprisonment together with forfeiture of any currency involved. Having formed this view, I decided that as first law officer I should request the Commonwealth Police to undertake inquiries about the matter. I made arrangements to see the Commissioner of Police on Wednesday last in the presence of the Secretary of my Department. Inquiries have since proceeded under the direction of the Commissioner. When they are completed I expect to receive a report and that the result of the inquiries will be made known. Any action of the police in looking at diaries or interviewing other people is simply at their discretion. So far as I am concerned, the inquiry is being conducted in the ordinary way. 
-I have already stated all that I propose to state in relation to investigations by the police. As Attorney-General I regard myself as having a very heavy responsibility in relation to matters of this character. I will perform, I hope, that responsibility in the high tradition that honourable members opposite are fully aware is attached to the office of Attorney-General. If an investigation is instituted and is proceeding, I will not make any comment upon it. I have already indicated that any investigation that is being undertaken is being undertaken at the discretion of the Commissioner of Police. That is all I propose to say about the matter at this stage. The fact is that the police will make a report in due course, and no doubt that report will become public. That report will indicate whether any breach of the criminal law of this country has occurred. 
The answer to that question is no. I will say this: I was aware of the possibility that if the Commonwealth - 
Opposition members- Oh! 
-I want to answer the quesJtion quite honestly. I will say this to the honourable member I was aware of the possibility that the police, if they conducted inquiries, might wish to look at documents such as that in the ordinary course of conducting inquiries and that they might wish to ask questions of the Labor Party's advertising agency- I forget the name of it- if they conducted their inquiries in a proper and ordinary way. That is, I think, a very frank answer to the question and a very honest one that goes beyond what the honourable member, asked me. 
-I have already indicated that I will not make any comment upon the investigation. I have explained how it came about so far as I was concerned. It would not - 

 Mr Scholes- I apologise. But it is a very serious matter under which this House -  (Government supporters interjecting) 
-I am not treating this matter in a jocular fashion. I would only say this: It would not be in the interests of anybody concerned in an investigation for me or for any 
Attorney-General to make statements about information he received. 
If the honourable gentleman will just listen, information that is received by the police or by a law officer can, of course, be correct or it may turn out to be incorrect. It would be most improper for a law officer to make statements about information he received. It could be highly defamatory of people. He has to form a view when he receives information as to whether it is credible or not. If he forms a view that it is incredible that may be a reason why he does not then proceed to make further investigations or ask the police to make investigations. If he forms the view that it is credible he has a duty, I believe, to perform. But one thing he should not do- and I think honourable members will understand this- is to make public the information he received. It is highly desirable, of course, that the police should not be used for political purposes. However, if a particular matter involves political parties or politicians that is a consequence which they suffer along with any other citizen who may be under inquiry. I regret very much in one sense that this inquiry cannot take place in the ordinary way. I am not trying to make this a matter of publicity. I should have preferred that the inquiry take place in the ordinary way and in a quiet way. I repeat what I said earlier. When a report is received it will no doubt indicate whether or not any breach of Commonwealth law has been involved. Honourable members should have no doubt that the possible breach that is being investigated is a serious one and one that has caused me to take the step I took. I do not make and I will not make any apology in relation to it. 
There may well be suspicion on this particular matter. If the honourable member has any information I would be very glad to receive it. 
-I realise that. May I say that gives me a great deal of comfort. However, if the honourable member has any information he might pass it on to me. The honourable member can rest assured that the Government is concerned about the Bartons. There was a decision of the court of appeal in Paraguay last weekperhaps it was earlier this week; I am not sure of the date. Unfortunately the court dismissed an appeal in which extradition was being sought. The fact is that further steps will be taken. I do not have the precise details at the moment. I can give them to the honourable member if he wishes them. Further steps are possible which may result in assistance being given to the Bartons being returned to Australia. I am aware that inquiries are also being made elsewhere in the world. The honourable member can rest assured that the matter is well and truly in the AttorneyGeneral's mind. 
-I am unable to give the percentage that the honourable member seeks in the first part of his question. I do not keep figures of that character in my mind, nor do I believe they are kept. As to the rest of the matter, I explained yesterday that I received certain information and what happened in relation to it. I do not propose to add anything further. 
Yes, a request has come to my notice. Needless to say, I would take into account any request of a character that required protection of a witness. 
-I indicated yesterday, in answer to the honourable member for Oxley, that I did not propose to give the detail of the information. I explained why. I do not know whether the honourable member for Hindmarsh was present. I indicated on that occasion- and I still indicate- that when information of that description comes it is not in the interests of justice or in the interests of investigations that it be revealed. Therefore I do not propose at this stage to reveal what it was. 
-Yesterday the Secretary of my Department brought to my attention a letter which had been written to my Department by the Chief Electoral Officer. That letter enclosed a reference letter, I think it was, from the private secretary of the Leader of the Opposition and attached to it was a form of statutory declaration. That statutory declaration contained certain allegations. I do not recall the precise name of the person concerned, but I am sure that honourable members can find out from the Leader of the Opposition. I shall give it to him if he wishes it; I just do not recall it at the moment. The advice has been given to the Chief Electoral Officer that investigations should take place. Needless to say, if the investigations reveal that any offence occurred, proceedings will be instituted. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I apologise for my outburst. When a foul, untrue attack is made like that made earlier today, I am afraid that the man came out; the Attorney-General gave way for a moment. I apologise to this House. 
You may not be so sensitive, my friend. There was a famous American advocate whose name was Clarence Darrow. When he went into court he always appeared for the defendant. The way in which he operated was to try always to make the defendant the prosecutor and the prosecutor the defendant. We are seeing something of that this week. We are seeing it here in this Parliament today. A man, that man, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the former Prime Minister, the first Prime Minister to be sacked by a GovernorGeneral in this country, is fighting for his political life. That is what this is all about. He is fighting for his political life. I am very sorry about today, my friend, because when I left the office of Solicitor-General, I had a deal of faith and respect in you. You have destroyed it. I mean that; you have destroyed it. 
The office of AttorneyGeneral is a very ancient one. It is one that has very high responsibilities. 
The office of AttorneyGeneral is a very ancient one and it carries a very high responsibility. When I assumed that office I resolved one thing, and that was that I would try to give it whatever honesty and integrity I could give it. That is what I have done in this matter. I have not one twinge of conscience in my mind. If I may say so, I cannot defend myself today. I cannot, because if I were to defend myself I should have to destroy the reputations of other people. I received some information, and that information vilifies other people. It may or may not be accurate, but I can tell honourable members that I have made checks to see whether the reliability I thought it had was still there. I have no reason to change my mind, but I am not going to deface the office of Attorney-General by coming out and making an attack that I could make upon individuals either in this House or outside this House. If I received information that I feel is credible and that I feel may involve the committing of serious offences against the law of this Commonwealth, I shall, without fear or favour, take on the duty that is mine. My duty is to ensure that the law is upheld. My duty is not to be a toady to a Prime Minister, and anybody who suggests that I am is quite wrong. I will not be told by the Cabinet, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or anybody else how I shall perform my function as law officer in prosecuting criminal offences. That has been the principle by which past Attorneys-General should have acted; that is the principle by which I will act. So, I shall not, as I could, defend myself today and possibly destroy two or three men. I shall not do it. I shall uphold the honour of my office. 
When I received information, I had to make up my mind whether it was information that ought to be investigated. Sometimes you receive information which has a national security aspect. Sometimes you receive information that relates to relationships with other countries. Sometimes you receive information of an ordinary character but which suggests that certain criminal offences may have been committed. I received information and I made up my mind independently that I should ask the police to carry on an investigation. The morality of this matter is that that investigation shall go on and it shall go on until it is completed. The police are not under the direction of the Attorney-General. Every citizen has of course a moral and a social duty to aid the police. How much greater is the Attorney-General's responsibility. How much greater is his responsibility when he learns of information that could be correct and that involves high crime, serious crime. From time to time I do have information which I take into account. 
May I say, as this matter has been raised outside this House, that I have considered statements by the Leader of the Opposition about the Governor-General. I have a prima facie view that he has committed a breach of the crime of libel- seditious libel. But may I say to this House that I have decided not to prosecute that gentleman. I will not make a martyr of him. Public interest demands, apparently, that he shall go free for the moment from that crime of seditious libel which I believe he has committed. He goes on making these statements. He makes comments which are completely unfounded about me and about public figures. 
But you see,  Mr Speaker,  the office of Attorney-General is a very high office and one that has to be approached with dignity. Of course this matter is of a serious nature. 
-I do that. 
-I withdraw it, in case the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  does not understand the language. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  made some suggestions in the House last week of a breach of privilege and he was making similar allegations. In accordance with my duty as I saw it I had investigations made into that to see whether there was any foundation in his allegations. I felt that it was proper that I should do that. As a result of those investigations I found that there did not appear to be any substance in the allegations. However, I want to emphasise this point. My approach to my office as Attorney-General is simply this: Members of Parliament and members of the public are entitled to the protection of my office and the public interest is entitled to the protection of my office and will get it whilst I hold that office. I have already said that I have not been directed in this matter before us by the Prime Minister. If there is any blame to be given to anybody it rests fairly and squarely on my shoulders.  (Extension of time granted).  Another matter that has been suggested is that information which a person acts on ought to be prima facie evidence. I think that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said this over the radio yesterday. 
He will say it again today too. Good on him. At least he is consistent and that is good to see. Of course, that contention does not bear examination. Why would one investigate or why would the police investigate a matter if they needed prima facie evidence before they investigated it. It is a lot of nonsense. It is absolute nonsense. It cannot be a principle at all. A person in the position of a law officer or a police officer- they have the same responsibilityhas to make up his mind whether information is credible or not and if he believes that it justifies the investigation of a person, he has to decide whether to pursue investigations. The police in this country are independent of the Executive and had the Commissioner of Police last week wanted to do so, he could have said to me: 'Attorney-General, I will not inquire into this matter'. He could have said that quite independently. The police are not under my direction or control nor is this inquiry under my direction or control. The police are inquiring into this matter in the ordinary way. 
The fact that it involves political personalities is not to the point. I did not cause the former Prime Minister to have this breakfast, as he has admitted in this place. It was not at my or anybody's behest except apparently that of members of the Australian Labor Party that these 2 gentleman came here from overseas. I cannot help that. There is no immunity to a politician from investigation in relation to criminal matters. The Leader of the Opposition was all too ready, of course, perhaps to applaud the fact that I caused investigations to be made in relation to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and yesterday I indicated that investigations would be made into another matter. Are they not party political matters? Are they not matters involving the Liberal Party and independent candidates? What is the Opposition talking about? Where is the consistency in this argument? 
As the honourable member says, there are double standards and they are all because of this attempt by a man to use this Parliament and, as he has done this week, the Press to defend himself because he is fighting for his political life. He is trying to do a Clarence Darrow. He is trying to put me in the box and trying to put the Prime Minister in the box, but he is the man who is in the box, though not the box I was just talking about. The box I speak of now is the box of the Australian Labor Party. It is that party which will judge him. It is that party who will decide whether he is fair dinkum in every sense of that Australian phrase. It is that party which will determine it. All I can say to honourable members opposite is that I gave them some advice last October which turned out to be correct and I give them some advice now. They should think well before they endorse the continuation of this man in the office of Leader of the Opposition. 
Sure it is, but the Opposition has brought it into this Parliament today and used the Parliament for that very purpose. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would love me to tell this Parliament, as he asked me to do yesterday, the facts upon which I requested this investigation. Why would he want them revealed? Does he have love for the Leader of the Opposition? He would love the facts that I know to be revealed. 
The honourable member can take it as he pleases, but that is my advice to him. 
Yes. 
-I did not mislead the House. 
-I have no knowledge as to the source of the funds nor as to the ownership of the moneys. 
My recollection-it is only a recollection- is that the funds were left with the  Canberra Times.  That is my recollection of the matter. So far as I am aware that is where the funds still are, but my statement is based on my understanding of the facts some weeks ago. 
-I am not aware of any disquiet on the part of Canberra citizens. I have read the magistrate's decision. It is not my intention to file an  ex officio  indictment. I notice that the magistrate relied on a proposition of law which he applied to the facts of the case. The proposition was this: 
A magistrate is dearly bound in the exercise of a sound discretion not to commit anyone unless a  prima facie  case is made out against him by witnesses entitled to a reasonable degree of credit In determining whether they will commit for trial justices should not balance the evidence and decide according as its preponderance which would be trying the case but should consider whether or not the evidence makes out a strong or probable or even a conflicting case of guilt, in any of which events they should commit. If, however, from the slender nature of the evidence, the unworthiness of the witness or the conclusive proof of evidence produced on the part of the accused they feel that the case is not sustained and that if they sent it for trial he must be acquitted they should discharge the accused. 
The magistrate went on to say: 
Now it is my view that the evidence against each of the defendants has established a  prima facie  case but it is my further opinion that a jury, properly directed, would not convict the defendants and I propose to discharge both defendants. 
That is a practice which is followed in New South Wales and in Queensland. It has also been followed in the Australian Capital Territory. This magistrate considered the evidence. He gave it thought and care over a day and part of a day and in that period came to that view. The magistrate having done that, it is not my intention to take the matter any further, and I hope that this is the last time the matter will be mentioned in this House. 
-I think it might be subject to copyright. It is part of the transcript of the proceedings. I do not know whether the honourable member wishes it to be tabled. I suggest he just have a look at it. 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Criminology Research Act 1971, I present the third annual report of the Criminology Research Council for the year ended 30 June 1975. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill 1976 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The question of additional registries in Queensland is under consideration. There is a proposal, which I hope will come into effect shortly, for a registry to be located at Townsville. There is a suggestion for one at Rockhampton, but I do not see that coming into effect in the immediate future. 
It is correct that I put in a return. It is correct that I made a deletion. It was a deletion that I considered I was entitled to make and, indeed, any other honourable member is entitled to make under- I will not charge the honourable gentleman a fee for this- section 217 (i) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which provides: 
I ) Strict compliance with the forms in the Schedule shall not be required, and substantial compliance therewith shall suffice for the purposes of this Act. 
As I have indicated I would regard other honourable members as being entitled to make the same deletion in terms of the Act. 
Last year and early this year the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  supplied to the Federal Government certain information which suggested that 2 Ministers of the Labor Government and a senior official still in the Commonwealth Public Service might have been involved in attempts to obtain for themselves kick-back commissions on proposed overseas loan borrowings by the Labor Government. The information included notarised statements and other documents which pointed to the possible existence overseas of a mandate signed by the Ministers and of an associated document implicating the official, which mandate and associated document evidenced the attempts to obtain the kick-backs. 
The information was discussed with the Solicitor-General, the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, the Permanent Head of the official's Department and the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. With their concurrence it was decided that in view of the fact that the information implicated a senior public servant the Government was bound to institute inquiries to ascertain whether there was any substance in it. Thorough inquiries have since taken place overseas. As a result of these inquiries the Government is completely satisfied that there is no substance in the suggestion that either the official or the 2 Ministers were involved in the wrongful conduct alleged. 
I wish to oppose the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. 
-I think it must be apparent, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said, from the carefully worded statement that I gave this morning that there has been no attempt to cover up in this matter. The honourable gentleman, the Leader of the Opposition nods and I think he agrees. Therefore, that interjection was quite uncalled for. There is a confusion in the arguments that have been put in support of the motion to suspend the Standing Orders. The fact that inquiries have been made and it has been concluded that there is no foundation for the allegations does not mean that the information that was produced itself would not justify some statement about it or some action in relation to it. 
Clearly enough, as I said in the statement, the Premier of Queensland did produce some information and, as I also said in the statement, it included a notarised document and an associated document. The Leader of the Opposition asked me whether I will table them. I do not propose to table them, for what I think is a very proper reason. That is the one that I have expressed here before. I do not believe that allegations about people which may be or could be unfounded should be made, and certainly they should not be made by a law officer in relation to information which he receives from people who give him information. The function of the law officer could not go on if that were so. That cannot be done either in the interests of the administration of justice or, alternatively, in the interests of justice to the individuals against whom allegations may be made. Quite apart from that, because that principle is a very important one and does, I believe, apply here, it is equally not open to honourable members to debate the question whether the Premier was justified in saying what he did. Clearly enough, the Commonwealth, after discussing this matter with the secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, the SolicitorGeneral, the head of the official's Department and the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, concluded that on the basis of the information supplied there had to be some investigation, and that investigation took place. Therefore, there is no basis upon which it could be said that the Premier of Queensland can be condemned for doing what he did. 
The Parliament of Queensland is his forum and he made statements there. He did not name anybody and, from recollection those allegations were immediately refuted in the Press by members of the Opposition and I think by the Leader of the Opposition. They were quickly and immediately refuted and the matter has been answered publicly. The fact is, of course, that allegations are often made both inside this House and outside this House about the conduct of honourable members. I have had them made against me and they have made against other honourable members. Members may firmly believe that those allegations are unjustified. But I do not notice anybody suddenly jumping up and seeking the suspension of Standing Orders because an allegation has been made against a member. Those allegations are made and they are usually answered in another way. Furthermore, the statement that I have made is a complete exoneration of the people involved. Therefore, there is absolutely no point in a debate on this matter. 
The Leader of the Opposition asks me whether the notarised statement disclosed any breach of Federal law. I can answer him only by saying that if those facts were shown to be true and if certain other, perhaps more incidental, facts were proved and added there could be some breach of, I think, the Secret Commissions Act. I do not want to go into that at this stage but I can tell honourable members that it could have led to a criminal charge. Before that there was a serious question involved in the allegation against the senior official, quite apart from the question of criminal conduct, which therefore justified those proceedings. 
Well, you have me in the box. 
No. The falsity of that would not disclose any offence against a law of the Commonwealth.  Mr Speaker,  we oppose the suspension of Standing Orders. 
-Neither the SolicitorGeneral, the Secretary of my Department, the Crown Solicitor nor any other Federal Government official has expressed any concern to me over my decision in this matter. Before I took the decision not to file an  ex officio  indictment I discussed the matter with the Solicitor-General, the Secretary of my Department and the Crown Solicitor. Each of them agreed that in the circumstances it was a proper decision for me to take. Honourable members will be aware that the Solicitor-General is the second law officer of the Commonwealth. It could be part of his function to file an  ex officio  indictment. I discussed with him whether an  ex officio  indictment should be filed. He agrees with me that an  ex officio  indictment should not be filed. I have noticed discussions in the Press as to whether the magistrate erred. I have read the transcript. I notice that the magistrate accepted a submission by  Mr Hughes  and by other counsel, I think  Mr Gallop,  to the effect that he was entitled to take the step he did under section 91 of the Ordinance as distinct from section 94, 1 think, of the Ordinance. I have spoken to junior counsel for the prosecution in the case. He has told me that he regards the decision by the magistrate as one that the magistrate could properly take in the matter. 
The question is probably out of order because it asks for an opinion. However - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Does not arise. 
Overseas Investment in Australia  (Question No. 77) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This Department has made no payments to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, N.S.W., by (a) direct grants or ( b) section 96 grants in the last 5 financial years. 
Not applicable. 
My attention has been drawn to the statement of the Attorney-General of South Australia. It is one of a number of misstatements, I have to say, that the AttorneyGeneral has made in relation to legal aid in recent weeks. For the information of honourable members, I point out that in the Adelaide branch of the Australian Legal Aid Office there is a shop front office that operates on the ground floor. Then there is the main office which operates on the twelfth floor. The shopfront office is manned by lawyers who meet people coming off the street and then refer them up to the twelfth floor. The fact is that for administrative reasons the shopfront office opens now for only  2Vi  days a week; but the facilities of the Australian Legal Aid Office are continuing to operate on the twelfth floor. Members of the public are able to go there at any time of the day and the facilities are available there. 
Of course, honourable members are aware that at present I am conducting a review of legal aid. I have already had discussions with the Attorneys-General of the various States and with the Law Council of Australia. Honourable members will have seen in recent weeks that the means test in relation to legal aid was tightened a little in order to enable the Australian Legal Aid Office to remain within the monthly commitment determined by the Labor Government, of $lm per month for legal aid. The Government is continuing to administer legal aid at the same level as the Labor Government. It has not been reduced. Additional offices have not been opened, simply for the reason that a review is being conducted. It is hoped that that review will be brought to an end at an early date. 

 Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I refer to my answer to the House yesterday in relation to certain divorce proceedings. Since question time yesterday I have been in touch with the former counsel in that case to whom I referred in my answer. I rang to inform him that I had agreed to give his name to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and that the Leader of the Opposition might ring him. I told him that I had informed the House that on the basis of the previous discussion with him I was perfectly satisfied that in relation to this matter there was no extraordinary procedure. He repeated that in his view, having in mind the circumstances of the case, this was so. 
He went on, however, to inform me of a number of matters which I had not previously known and which I think, in the light of my answer yesterday, I should bring to the attention of the House. He told me that prior to the matter being heard he did apply to a judge of the Supreme Court to have the matter expedited. He said that the judge to whom he had applied indicated, after hearing his reasons, that the matter could be heard at the end of the day several days later. The judge also said that the matter would not be listed. He informed me that the non-listing of the matter and the hearing of it at the end of the day were matters discussed with the judge in doing his best for his client. They were not sought by his client. He also informed me that in his wide experience applications for expedition had been made prior to that time in other matters and for varying reasons which had been successful. The matter came on on a later day and at the end of the day and was dealt with. The decree nisi was made absolute forthwith. He informs me that this had happened in other cases of which he is aware. 
I understand that the petition in this matter was filed on 17 March 1975 and was heard on 18 April 1975. In making inquiries into this matter I was concerned, as would be other honourable members, with the possibility that in the administration of the divorce laws expedition and special treatment might have been given to particular people or groups of people. I am firmly of the view that that should not happen. Clearly enough, on the basis of these additional facts, this particular matter was not treated in the same way as all other cases, as I believed and indicated yesterday. I regret any impression that it was, conveyed by my answers yesterday. 
During last week I received the police report in this matter. The report is a lengthy document. It reveals that the inquiries by the police are incomplete. Attached to the report are a number of statements, including 2 statements which appear to have emanated from a  Mr Fischer.  These latter statements are conflicting.  Mr Fischer's  present whereabouts is unknown to the police. Another possibly material witness,  Mrs Fsicher  up to the time of the report had not been prepared to be interviewed by the police. At this stage further inquiries would seem to depend on  Mr Fischer  being located and questioned about the matter. However, this is a matter for the police. The police inquiries to date have not produced sufficient evidence to justify any charge of a breach of federal law. I have decided that I should not table the police report itself. It includes statements which contain serious allegations against a number of individuals, and I do not think it would be in the interest of justice to table the report. Furthermore, as I have indicated, the inquiries are incomplete. 
I think on another occasion, in an equally refined voice, the honourable member asked me that question. I told him what had taken place till then. I indicated to him that if he had any information which might lead to the detection of a possible breach of those regulations I would cause it to be investigated. 
If the honourable member is prepared to resign his seat and rejoin the New South Wales Police Force that may be able to be arranged. But if he supplies me with any information I shall certainly be prepared to consider it. 
The answer to the question is: No, I have not asked the Chief Justice, and I do not propose to ask the Chief Justice because I regard what passes between the judges of the court as being a matter for them. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make the legislative provision necessary to enable a simplification to be effected in the method of citation of Commonwealth Acts that have been amended. Under the present system, when an Act is amended, it is given a new citation which includes a reference to the year in which the amendment is made. For example, when the Customs Act 1901-1973 was amended in 1974, it was given a new citation and became known at the Customs Act 1901-1974, and all references to that Act made in other Acts after 1974 would refer to it by this new doubleyear citation. Under the proposed new system, the original short title of an Act, for example 'Customs Act 1901 ', will continue notwithstanding amendments of the Act, but, when used in other Acts, will be construed as including references to the original Act as amended or reenacted from time to time. 
The present system was presumably intended to put people on notice that the Act in question has been amended and to indicate the year of the last amending Act. However its usefulness in this respect breaks down because references to Acts in other Acts and documents that are up to date references when made soon become out of date and can be positively misleading. The present system causes difficulties both for the practising legal profession and for the Parliamentary Counsel and other government lawyers. For example, it is not easy for a solicitor drafting a private document to ascertain quickly and with certainty the very latest citation of a Commonwealth Act and, if he uses an out of date citation, the interpretation of the document could be affected in a way that he does not intend. Similar difficulties can arise in respect of court documents. It is true that it is sometimes necessary to refer to an Act as amended and in force at a particular time. Under the new system this can be done by suitable words, for example, by referring to ' the Customs Act 1901, as in force as amended at the date of this agreement'. The profession in the two most populous States is already familiar, in dealing with State Acts, with the system now proposed for Commonwealth Acts. As I am proposing that the new system commence on 1 July 1976, the profession will have ample notice of the change. 
I am satisfied that the new system will avoid technical problems in the Office of Parliamentary Counsel and will save a really substantial amount of checking work and risk of error in that Office and in the other legislative drafting and publications establishment in my Department. The technical problems can become acute when several Bills amending the one Act are before Parliament at the same time. The new system will also save a substantial amount of checking work on the part of the  Clerk  of this House and the  Clerk  of the Senate. 
Double-year citations are not used in Canada, New Zealand or South Africa and are not generally used in the United Kingdom. In Australia they are not used in the legislation of New South Wales, Victoria or Tasmania. New South Wales did use double-year citations, but abandoned them in 1969. Double-year citations have never been used in the case of Commonwealth Statutory Rules. In the case of Northern Territory Ordinances, they were abandoned in 1972. As regards Australian Capital Territory Ordinances, I propose to approve a similar change in practice. 
I would emphasise that, despite the change, every amending Act will continue to list in a footnote all the previous amending Acts, and that every reprint of an Act as amended will show the date as at which the reprint is prepared and will list all amending Acts in force up to that date. There are, of course, innumerable existing references in Acts to other Acts by the use of double-year citations. It is not proposed to alter these references except when the provisions in which they occur are being amended for other reasons, but the Bill before the House will ensure that these references will continue to be effective. 
I turn now to the provisions of the Bill. Clause 4 will amend the Acts Interpretation Act so as to provide, in effect, that a reference in an Act to another Act by its original short title, for example 'Customs Act 1901 ', is to be construed, except so far as the contrary intention appears, as including a reference to that other Act as amended or re-enacted from time to time. The provision also covers references to Acts by an altered short title, so as to take account of changes in the names of Acts, for example the change of name of the Australian Broadcasting Act to the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
Under the present system, by virtue of the Amendments Incorporation Act, where an Act has been given a double-year citation, the short title of the amended Act is deemed to have been amended accordingly. The result is that at present the short titles of almost all amended Acts contain references to 2 years, for example, ' Customs Act 1 90 1 - 1 974 '. Clause 6 will bring the short titles into the new form by omitting the reference to the second year. A few short titles that contain the word 'Acts' are specially dealt with in the clause. Clause 5 will make consequential amendments to the Amendments Incorporation Act. These amendments are of a technical nature and are more suitable to be dealt with in the Committee stage of the Bill than at the second reading stage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I am unable to confirm whether any such instructions have been given. I would be very surprised if they had; but I have no knowledge of the matter. 
-I understand that the book does make that misstatement. Of course, I also understand that the Chief Justice of New South Wales has in fact denied it. 
-I have not read the book yet but I shall read it. I understand the  President  of the Australian Labor Party has acquired certain assets as a result of libel actions. I have no doubt that all of us will read that book, and read the others that come out. May I say that the book is basically ill-founded because it is attempting to prove a conspiracy which of course is absolutely false. The attempt to involve innocent people like the Chief Justice of New South Wales is a clear example - 
-If the Labor Party has any sense it will burn the book and forget the conspiracy theory that it and its Leaders as well as these books are trying to peddle because there is absolutely no truth in it. 
I noticed in the  Canberra Times  yesterday an article by Professor Geoffrey Sawer who seems to have come to a view that would be contrary to this so-called conspiracy theory. The article also refers to the allegation that there was some deceit by the Governor-General. We all know that the only deceit involved in this matter was the Leader of the Opposition's deceit of himself. He deceived himself into believing that the Governor-General was a person who would not be prepared ultimately to dismiss him if he was irresponsible. We know that the GovernorGeneral was prepared to do that in the interests of the country. The only deceit in this matter was by the Leader of the Opposition himself. In the process he did embrace certain legal propositions which turned out to be quite false. They were falsely based and turned out to be wrong. He deceived himself. One might have thought he was a better constitutional lawyer than he turned out to be. 
-Well, he has had some experience in government and he is always telling us how he was on the Constitutional Review Committee in the late 1950s and how much he learned about the Constitution. The book is on a very shaky ground - 
-I thank the honourable member for his question. Section 73 of the Matrimonial Causes Act, as honourable members will be aware, provides: 
Where a decree  nisi  has become absolute, any person is entitled on application to the Registrar or other proper officer of the court by which the decree was made and on payment of the appropriate fee, to receive a certificate signed by the Registrar or other proper officer that the decree  nisi  has become absolute. 
In other words, any person is entitled to receive it. The honourable member asks me what the present position is. That provision is brought forward into section 56 of the Family Law Act. Honourable members will recall that from their study of this legislation last year in this place. Section 56 of the Act provides: 
Where a decree  nisi  has become absolute, any person is entitled, on application to the Registrar of the court by which the decree was made, to receive a certificate signed by the Registrar that the decree  nisi  has become absolute. 
In broad terms, any person may go to the court and seek that copy. The Attorney-General of the Commonwealth is not in control of the courts which exercise Federal jurisdiction nor of their registries. I can apprehend only that if there is any truth in the story to which the honourable member referred the authorities in New South Wales are troubled by the fact that people are trying to intrude into the privacy of other people. The section was put there, I assume, to enable the parties to the marriage to get a certificate that the decree  nisi  has become absolute so it can be proved, for instance, for re-marriage or for any proceedings subsequently. One can imagine that, if there is any truth in the story, people administering justice in New South Wales might feel that those who are seeking to intrude into the privacy of others should, to some degree, be asked to state the reasons why they want the information. 
Honourable members will recall that in the family law debate one of the things about which we were basically concerned was the privacy of divorce proceedings. The only reason that divorce proceedings should become in any way public is if some question of public interest arises. One can assume in relation to a matter such as this- again I am speculating- that if there is any truth in the story authorities in New South Wales simply are reacting to the view that there should be complete privacy in relation to divorce proceedings unless the parties themselves are seeking the information. 
-I do not know whether it is the fact. I will have inquiries made, and I will inform the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This answer is based on facts supplied by other Departments and by the Reserve Bank. As required by the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations an approval for the export of the nugget was issued by an officer of the Department of National Resources duly authorised by the Minister for National Resources on S February 1976 pursuant to regulation 9 and the consent of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs was obtained on 10 February 1 976 pursuant to regulation 4. The Reserve Bank of Australia verified on 4 Feburary 1976 that the arrangements made for payment for the nugget complied with those approved by the Bank under the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations. The nugget was exported on 12 February 1976. No duty was payable. Section 1 14( 1 ) (b) of the Customs Act provides that in such a case the goods shall be entered for export not later than three days after a Certificate of Clearance has been granted to the master of the ship, or pilot of the aircraft, in which the goods are to be exported. In this case the Certificate of Clearance was granted on 12 February 1976 and the goods were entered for export on 17 February 1976. Having regard to the fact that all necessary approvals for export had been obtained the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is of the view, with which I agree, that this is not a case in which proceedings should be brought for non-compliance with section 1 14( 1 ) (b) of the Customs Act. 
The question asked , is a question of law. I have not investigated the circumstances for the purpose of saying who owns the money. Therefore I am unable to answer the question. 
-I am not aware of the facts that the honourable member has mentioned and therefore I am not able to give any legal opinion, even if I wished to, on the matters he raised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The figures provided to the Attorney-General's Department on these matters are: 
1 ) 36 persons were arraigned in the Supreme Court in 1975. 
116. 
27. 
98. 
I will not be long. I just want to express my thanks to honourable members for the very constructive debate that we have had on this rather important measure. I join in the expression of appreciation of the work of parliamentary counsel. Their work is not easy. Indeed it is not easy to get the sort of people who are needed. They have a very special quality of mind and of capacity to apply themselves to the task. It is not the more glamorous side to the law but in a sense it is the most important. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has suggested that Acts be printed straight away but that overlooks some of the associated problems. The law that comes out must be precise and accurate. The demand for accuracy is much greater, of course, in relation to Acts of Parliament than it is in relation to  Hansard.  Many inaccuracies appear in  Hansard  if we perhaps choose to look for them. But an Act of Parliament should not be inaccurate. On at least one occasion even recently there was an instance where an Act of Parliament when printed was found not to contain some vital words. That is an indication that inaccuracies can occur. I hope it does not happen very often and the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel seeks to ensure that it does not happen. 
One matter that was mentioned and on which my comment was sought by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  concerned why we do not refer to the Customs Act rather than the Customs Act 1901. Sometimes one will find a number of Acts of the same name and it is helpful to know to which particular Act one is referring, whether it is the Trade Practices Act of 1965, the Trade Practices Act of 1973 or whatever it may be. For instance, there was the Income Tax Assessment Act of 1922 and before that the Income Tax Assessment Act of 1915 or 1916. One might recall that they were reviewed in 1936 and the present Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 was commenced but, of course, the previous Acts remained in force in relation to assessments to be made in respect of years prior to 1936. So it does become important, on analysis, to know the year of the Act. 
Reference has been made to consolidation and also to the availability of legislation. This is a matter that is constantly of concern to me. Last week when I was in the Northern Territory I found that some prints of ordinances for 1975 were not yet available. This is due to the tedious work that has to be done in relation to the printing of ordinances and I have taken steps to ensure that these ordinances are brought up to date. I am referring to prints of current law which are not available even to practitioners. Sometimes we tend to neglect the basic problems and institutions of government. I think that we will find increasingly in the Parliament that we have to spend more money on the basic institution like the law, its production, presentation and consolidation. Indeed, as the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  said, there is a need for simplicity in the law. Often this cannot be achieved and sometimes what seems simple to laymen is very complex in terms of what lawyers have to draft. But constantly we have to be on our guard to ensure so far as we can that the law is certain, simple and available. 
To the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  I can only suggest that although it may involve some breach of copyright if he wants a copy of the Banking Act he should not perhaps buy the whole 13 volumes but should be encouraged to take from the consolidation a photostat of the Banking Act so that he would have it up to date. Questions of that nature are constantly before us. Reprints of the important Acts like the Income Tax Assessment Act are brought out every year. The purpose is to ensure that the Acts in common use are readily available. I can assure honourable members that legislation in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory will receive my continuing attention. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department purchases from time to time second-hand libraries or parts of libraries for which it has a use. Purchases are made from any available source and this includes persons appointed as Federal Judges. No comprehensive list of libraries purchased from Judges has been kept and considerable effort would be involved in extracting full particulars of such purchases. I bring to the Honourable Member's notice that the services of the Law Book Company are used to value the books offered for purchase, which is made in accordance with the provisions of the Audit Act and Treasury Regulations and Directions. 
When I answered a question on this matter in this House some weeks ago I indicated that I would not comment upon the police report. That is still my attitude and I do not propose to comment on that report. 
-I would only say that  Senator Townley  has said that - 
-I am constantly in touch with the position in the Family Court of Australia and I am concerned, as I think most honourable members are concerned, at the fact that the number of applications for divorce filed this year is running at three to four times the comparative rate for last year. For instance, in the first 13 weeks of 1975 some 6261 applications for divorce were filed. In the first 13 weeks of this year 21 846 applications for divorce were filed. I anticipate the current number to be about 24 000. One explanation of this may be that there is a backlog of people who were waiting for the Family Law Act to come into force, but one would have thought that by this stage that rate would have declined somewhat. Honourable members will also be aware that the Family Law Act itself is under challenge in the High Court of Australia and that the decision of the High Court has been reserved and has not yet been handed down. 
The question of the appointment of additional judges was referred to by me on Sunday in addressing the opening of a service called ' 'Youthline' at Parramatta. I indicated then that I proposed to bring recommendations before the Government very soon for the appointment of additional judges. Those judges would be in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and South Australia. It is proposed to bring into existence in Western Australia a State Family Court on 1 June next. That will be under an arrangement between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Western Australia. I can assure the honourable member and all other honourable members that the matter of additional judges is being kept constantly under review. 
When this Government came to office and I took over the administration of the Australian Legal Aid Office I discovered that the previous Government had in effect set up the Australian Legal Office in such a way as to leave it without adequate administrative support, and had put it into premises which were not adequate. For instance, in most capital cities in Australia you will find that lawyers and others in a Legal Aid Office are sitting in open space on a single floor of a building. Those are not adequate premises in which to dispense legal aid because that requires a degree of confidence. I also found that there was insufficient support staff and that accounts were outstanding to some extent. Since then I have been concerned to bring these accounts up to date. Accounts were outstanding in Western Australia and, I gather, in Victoria and special steps are being taken to get the backlog under control. On Friday, last I was advised that the backlog in Victoria should be up to date in approximately 3 weeks time. 
In those circumstances one can see that the legal aid services had not been adequately established by the previous Government. The House will recall that presently I am engaged in discussions with State Attorneys-General with a view to rationalising legal aid services throughout the Commonwealth, both in the States and in the Territories. Those discussions have been amicable to date with all States and I hope that soon they will produce a system of legal aid which will not allow this sort of deficiency, and the sorts of deficiencies I have referred to already, to continue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) This Government adheres to the policy established by the former Prime Minister  Mr Chifley  in 1949 and followed by successive Governments since that time that details of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation or its operations are not disclosed. Normally, therefore, I would, insofar as the questions concern ASIO, decline to answer them. However, I am prepared to make an exception of this case. The answer to both questions is ' No'. 
-In January I became aware of the fact that deserted wives were finding it difficult to enforce their maintenance orders. I inquired as to whether the Australian Legal Aid Office was able to assist them and I found that the previous Labor Government had decided that the Legal Aid Office should not assist in relation to the enforcement of maintenance orders. In fact, no provision for this purpose was made in the last Budget nor was staff provided. So I was not able to give any assistance in that regard. I had a look at the family law regulations and discoveredhonourable members will perhaps recall this- that the provisions for the enforcement of maintenance orders prescribe a series of alternatives for deserted wives with defaulting husbands. For instance, there is a procedure for sequestration; there is a procedure for garnishment; there is a procedure for seizure of property. Unfortunately those regulations were drawn in such a way as to be appropriate to a superior court of record and required an application to be made supported by an affidavit. 
Honourable members will recall that in years past the enforcement of maintenance orders was usually done through courts of petty sessions and that the defaulting husbands would be brought before those courts on warrants. If they did not pay up they were sometimes sent to Long Bay or some other appropriate place. Under the Family Law Act that procedure was set aside. In order to alleviate the position of the deserted wife it seemed to me appropriate to amend the regulations. Another thing I found was that whereas in the past the clerks of petty sessions in the States had assisted deserted wives to take out the warrants or the informations in relation to the enforcement of maintenance orders - 
Without fee. Whereas they had done that in the past they would not do it under the family law regulations because a choice had to be made as to whether the wife would apply for, say, an order for seizure, an order for sequestration or the like. The clerks of petty sessions, I understand on instructions from the Crown law authorities of the various States, no longer assist deserted wives and have not done, certainly in New South Wales and I understand in Victoria, in recent months. This week a new regulation has been gazetted. Its purpose is to endeavour to overcome this problem. In future a deserted wife whose order for maintenance is not being complied with by her husband will be able to go along to a clerk of petty sessions and take out what I choose to call a composite summons. That summons can be served on the husband. It will require him, in effect, to come along and be questioned. As a result of that questioning the magistrate will be able to make one or other of the orders that are set out in the regulations under the Family Law Act. In other words, provided the wife can establish in some way that the default has taken place and that the order has been made, there will be no need for the clerk of petty sessions in future to make any decision in giving advice to the deserted wife as to what course she should take. 
This should mean that the chamber magistrate should be able to do that because really no advice will be involved as the summons is more or less automatic. 
-There never was a fee and, of course, it will not require legal aid. No legal aid would be available for it because of what had been done previously. But that, I believe, should go a long way towards assisting the deserted wives who at the moment are unable to have their orders for maintenance enforced. 
-I am not able to answer the question completely. I can only say that I think in 1958 the Defamation Act of New South Wales provided a definition of defamatory matter that included statements, for instance - 
The honourable member has had experience of the defamation laws of New South Wales. The Act included a definition to the effect that defamatory matter related to matters reflecting on a deceased person. However, in the interpretation of that I understand that even if something reflects on a deceased person it has to reflect also on the living. For instance, if somebody said of somebody's mother who was deceased that she was a whore I understand that that would reflect on the living. So not all defamatory matters would come within the classification. I doubt whether this provision still exists in New South Wales. I think it was taken out in 1974. Whether it exists in other States, I am not sure. From recollection, it was contained in the laws of Queensland and I think of Tasmania, but may I say that it is not a matter that I have looked at precisely for some time. 
-I have not kept any statistics about the number of times I have conferred with the Premier of Queensland in that period. I cannot answer the question. 
Yes, I will give the Opposition a copy. 
-I am seeking leave. 
I cannot answer the question at the moment. I will take it on notice and give the Leader of the Opposition an answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my statement in the House of Representatives on 24 March 1976.  (Hansard,  page 941.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Supreme Court of New South Wales that the number was 9896. 
I am informed that no statistics are kept in cases in which this occurs, nor would it be possible to ascertain this information from the court files. I am also informed that it was a frequent occurrence under the Matrimonial Causes Act, in cases in which the parties reached agreement on all matters during a hearing before the Registrar, for the divorce itself to be heard and disposed of forthwith without having been listed for hearing. In sittings of the Supreme Court on circuit outside Sydney, divorces were frequently heard without having been listed, when, for example, they had reached the stage of readiness after the publication of the list and the Judge concerned was able and willing to hear them. 
I am informed that the number was approximately 250. 
I am informed that the number was approximately 42. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that  Mr Justice  Larkins was the Judge who granted the application made to him for an expedited hearing in the case referred to, and who presided at the hearing of the case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not in possession of this information. I do not think that the Attorney-General should use his power to inspect divorce files to obtain this son of personal information unless it is demonstrably in the public interest to do so. I do not regard this as such a case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I announced on 15 January 1976 that I had begun a review of legal aid services in Australia directed to determining exactly how the provision of legal aid could best be managed in the public interest bearing in mind the need of citizens for legal aid and the efficiency and economy of its administration. The establishment of offices of the Australian Legal Aid Office at 28 new locations approved by the previous Government has been deferred pending completion of my review. The selection of locations for new legal aid offices and the opening of new legal aid offices will be matters for consideration within any new framework for the provision of legal aid that is established as a result of the review. 
The only change that has occurred has been the introduction of new guidelines for determining client eligibility for legal assistance going beyond the furnishing of legal advice. There has been no change in eligibility for legal advice. The basic test for legal assistance is unchanged and is still the inability of the applicant to afford the cost of private legal assistance in the particular case but the guidelines of income for the application of this basic test are stricter. The guidelines are intended to provide a general standard of measuring 'inability' but they are to be applied with discretion in the individual case. The new guidelines and the former guidelines are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that payments to the various airlines for air travel within Australia during the last 2 years were as set out hereunder 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 25 March 1976 I informed the House that I did not think it would be in the interests of justice to table the police report received by me concerning possible breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations. For the same reasons as I gave for that decision, I will not indicate whether any document now produced is or is not part of that report. 
-I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for increases in the salaries and allowances of Judges of the Family Court of Australia. The rates of salaries and allowances for Judges of the Family Court, which are at present prescribed in the Family Law Act 1975, have fallen behind the rates for Judges of other Federal courts of comparable status. This has occurred largely because the Family Law Bill occupied so much of the time of both Houses during its passage through Parliament last year. 
The proposed new rates of salary and allowances are based on a recommendation obtained by the previous Government from the Remuneration Tribunal and are the same as those proposed in a Bill to give effect to the recommendation introduced into, but not passed by, the last Parliament. The rates proposed for the Chief Judge and for Senior Judges of the Family Court are equivalent to the rates for the Chief Judge and Judges respectively of the Australian Industrial Court. The proposed rate for ordinary Judges of the Family Court- at which level the majority of Judges are being appointedis $5,000 less than that for Senior Judges. 
Since the proposed increases were to have been made before the commencement of the Family Law Act, and appointments to the Court have been offered and accepted on this basis, the Bill now before the House provides for the increases to be retrospective to 5 January 1976, the date of commencement of the Family Law Act. 
Immediately after the House has agreed on further debate on this Bill, I propose to introduce a Family Law Amendment Bill to make a number of amendments to the Family Law Act. One of those amendments will make changes to the Act to complement the provisions of this Bill. One of the most significant provisions of the Family Law Act is the establishment of Family Courts. It is important both to the Judges already appointed and for the appointment of further Judges that the salary increases provided for in this Bill be made, and made as soon as possible. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make amendments to the Family Law Act 1975. Honourable members will be aware that the Family Law Act has replaced the old divorce, maintenance, custody and property laws contained in the Matrimonial Causes Act and to some extent in State and Territory legislation, and that it came into operation on 5 January this year. Honourable members will also doubtless be aware that the basic provisions of the Act were subsequently challenged in the High Court which, on 1 1 May, delivered judgment substantially affirming the validity of the provisions. 
While the decision was substantially favourable to the Act, and was welcomed by the Government, the limited extent to which the Court held it to be beyond power does give rise to problems. I refer to the decision that, in the case of custody of children, the Act was valid only to the extent that it applied to proceeding between the parties to a marriage for the custody of the natural or adopted children of both of them. This means that disputes between one party to a marriage and, say, a grandparent of a child of the marriage would fall outside the jurisdiction of the Act and would therefore have to be resolved according to relevant State law. Likewise disputes between a husband and wife over a stepchild would be outside the Act. 
In the case of matrimonial property, the High Court held that the Act is valid only where the property proceedings are related to pending or completed proceedings between the parties for divorce or other principal relief. Here again, the jurisdiction over resolution of disputes is therefore divided between the Act and the relevant State law. 
A further regrettable consequence of the decision as to the limits of jurisdiction under the Act is that the jurisdiction of the Family Court of Australia, a Federal court created by the Act, is limited to the same degree. This means that a person who has taken proceedings under the Family Law Act in the Family Court, only to find that his case is beyond the limits of the jurisdiction under the Act, would have to start again in the appropriate State court under the relevant State legislation. It will be seen that the High Court decision has meant that the concept of a family court able to deal with all matters relating to family law cannot be realised under a law of this Parliament. Under present constitutional limitations, this concept can be realised only through a system of State family courts exercising State and federal jurisdiction covering the whole area of family law. 
One of the main purposes of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Act so as to bring it into line with the decision of the High Court. The definition of 'matrimonial cause' in section 4, which governs the extent of jurisdiction created by the Act, has been narrowed in the areas of custody and property to the degree called for by the decision. In the areas of maintenance and injunctions, the definition has been confined to proceedings between the parties and, in the case of maintenance of a child, to proceedings by or on behalf of a child against one or both parents. The expression 'child of a marriage' has been limited to the natural or adopted children of both parties to the marriage, although the existing, wider meaning has been retained for the purposes of section 63, which prevents a divorce becoming absolute unless the court is satisfied as to the welfare of children of the marriage. 
I am concerned at the difficulties and hardships that may be encountered by people as a result of the incomplete extent of the jurisdiction under the Act in the areas of custody and matrimonial property. I therefore propose to raise these matters with the States at the next meeting of the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General arranged for next month. The Standing Committee is already examining proposals for uniform matrimonial property laws amongst the States and Territories, and I hope that it will be able to come up with some firm proposals in the light of the High Court's decision. As far as custody is concerned, the problem of the disputes beyond the reach of the Family Law Act is part of a wider need for uniform State and Territory laws as to custody, including custody and rights of ex-nuptial children. All these are matters on which there should be uniformity of law as far as possible. Being fairly clearly beyond the power of the Commonwealth, they should desirably be the subject of a uniform approach by the States. 
Before leaving the decision of the High Court. I should mention that section 97 ( 1 ), which requires proceedings under the Act to be held in closed court, was held to be invalid so far as it purported to apply to State courts when exercising jurisdiction under the Act. The clear policy of Parliament, as expressed in section 97 ( 1 ), was that proceedings under the Act should be in closed court. As the High Court decision means that the closing of State courts when exercising Federal jurisdiction is a matter for State law, the adoption of the principle in section 97 (1) will depend on the co-operation of the States. I therefore propose to suggest to the States that they consider introducing complementary legislation as to the closing of their courts when exercising jurisdiction under the Family Law Act. Although the jurisdiction of the State supreme courts under the Act will be terminated in the near future- at the request of the States- I expect State courts of summary jurisdiction to continue to exercise concurrent jurisdiction with the Family Court for some time to come. In the meantime, section 97 will remain unaltered, so that proceedings before the Family Court of Australia will continue to be in closed court. 
The remainder of the amendments are mainly of a formal nature, with a few being of substance. None alters any of the main principles of the Act. For the benefit of new honourable members, 1 mention that these principles were debated at great length in both Houses of the last Parliament, and the Bill was extensively amended before being finally approved by a free vote of members on all sides. These remaining amendments include some that were foreshadowed, but not moved, by the Attorney-General in the previous Government during the debate on the Bill, and others for which the need has been disclosed by experience with the administration of the Act since its commencement. They amount to a miscellaneous collection, which I can best deal with in a general way by taking them in broad categories. Each of the amendments is explained briefly in the explanatory memorandum circulated in the House with the Bill, and can be further clarified in the Committee stage if necessary. 
One category comprises amendments included to ensure that State Family Courts established pursuant to section 41 of the Act can operate on the same basis as the Family Court of Australia. In the grafting-on of the provisions for State Family Courts to the Family Law Bill during its passage through Parliament, a few oversights and omissions occurred which this Bill seeks to remedy. For instance, the Bill provides for transfers of proceedings from a Supreme Court to a State Family Court in the same way as the Act now provides for transfers to the Family Court of Australia. An omission in the provisions of the Act governing appeals from State Family Courts is also dealt with. 
After Western Australia decided to establish its State Family Court, it became apparent that it would be preferable for the Court to have its own counselling staff rather than use that of the Family Court of Australia, as envisaged by section 41 of the Act. The Bill includes amendments to ensure that this can be achieved.  At  the request of Western Australia, a provision of the Bill will permit one person to hold simultaneously the offices of Judge of a State Family Court and Judge of the Family Court of Australia. Having in mind that double judicial commissions are not usually encouraged, I have given careful consideration to this matter. I have accepted the Western Australian view that the holding by one person of commissions in both courts could be desirable in the special circumstances of this case. 
The Bill also includes some amendments to the transitional provisions of the Act, which provide for the disposal of proceedings that were pending when the Act came into operation. In the case of pending divorce proceedings that have been continued under the repealed Matrimonial Causes Act, as permitted by the new Act, some uncertainty has arisen as to whether decrees granted after 5 January become absolute in 3 months, as under the old Act, or in one month, as under the new Act. The Bill seeks to make it clear that such decrees become absolute in the shorter period, consistently with decrees that had been granted but had not become absolute on 5 January. Also, the right to apply to have pending divorce proceedings dealt with under the new Act on the no-fault ground is extended to either party, provided they have been separated for the required period. At the moment the right is restricted to a petitioner or cross-petitioner. 
The Bill contains some amendments to make the maintenance and custody provisions more effective. One amendment will enable an authority or officer of the Commonwealth or a State to take proceedings to obtain a maintenance order on behalf of a party or child. This would make sure, for example, that the Department for Community Welfare in South Australia may continue to take maintenance proceedings on behalf of persons to whom it pays pension. The amendment will correspond to section 106 (b) of the Act, which was sponsored by the right honourable member for Lowe when the Family Law Bill was in this House, and which enables proceedings for enforcement of maintenance orders to be taken on behalf of persons entitled to moneys under them. I might add that section 106(b) has itself been re-drafted as a formal amendment. The substance of the provision remains unchanged. 
Other amendments made by the Bill are designed to clarify the powers of a person to whom a warrant is addressed to enforce a custody or access order. Doubts have been raised as to the extent of these powers, and the amendments spell out the powers under a court order that may be exercised, where necessary, to search places and to use force to take possession of a child. 
Two amendments in the child welfare area have been included in the Bill at the request of the former New South Wales Government. One of these ensures that a child who is under the guardianship of a State or Territory Director of Child Welfare while awaiting adoption cannot be the subject of a maintenance or custody order except in special circumstances. At present the Act confines this exemption to children who are under the care and control of a Minister pursuant to State or Territory child welfare legislation. The other amendment would take away the jurisdiction that a court now has under the Act to order the continuance of a custody or access order relating to a child after the child has been adopted. 
By an oversight when the original Bill was being amended during its passage through Parliament, provision was not included to enable appeals to be taken from Territory Supreme Courts to the Full Court of the Family Court, which is the court of appeal from State Supreme Courts under the Act. The only avenue of appeal from Territory Supreme Courts is therefore to the High Court. An amendment in the Bill provides for appeals from Territory Supreme Courts to the Full Court of the Family Court. 
To facilitate the determination of questions of law by the Full Court of the Family Court, a provision has been inserted to enable such questions that arise in any proceedings before the Family Court to be referred by way of a case stated procedure to the Full Court. An authoritative decision of the Full Court could thus be obtained without the need for a full scale appeal. 
The remaining amendments in the Bill are consequential upon those already referred to, or are relatively insubstantial or are of a formal or drafting nature. Honourable members will recognise the need to remedy promptly any defects in an area of law that is so important to so many people in the community as this law obviously is. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.5 to 8 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the controversy which followed the reply given on 8 April 1975 to Parliamentary Question No. 926'bv a former Attorney-General. (House of Representatives  Hansard.  8 April 1975 page 1312). 
2 ) The criminal law in the Australian Capital Territory has since been changed by amendments to the Public Health (Prohibited Drugs) Ordinance which removed the previous weaknesses in the definition of cannabis that had made it difficult to secure convictions. 
3 ) The question of penalties for offences relating to drugs was discussed at the last meeting of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence and was referred to the Committee's working Party on Legislation for consideration. As this is an area where there are strong arguments in favour of uniformity of legislation throughout Australia the views of the States that will be expressed in that Committee will be of conserable importance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The Fourth Session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea concluded in New York on 7 May 1976. The Minister for Foreign Affairs informs me that the report of the Australian Delegation to the Session will be made available to Honourable Members as soon as possible. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that, in these circumstances, a preliminary report would serve no useful purpose. 
Dealing with the latter part of the question, may I say that those provisions are being used in the way in which it was intended. As to the question whether I have had any allegations or complaints about judges of the Family Law Court, I have received one from one honourable member. But may I say that that matter is now the subject of an appeal to the Family Court in its appellate jurisdiction. Earlier this week, I think, another case that came before the High Court on an order  nisi  involved allegations about the conduct of a judge and his intrusion into the proceedings. It would be most improper for me, of course, to make any comments which would reflect on either of those matters. Therefore I do not propose to do that. 
However, I refer honourable members to section 97 of the Family Law Act. Honourable members will recall that last week there was a somewhat unusual meeting in the sense that members of both sides met and discussed amendments to the Family Law Act that were subsequently introduced into this House. One of the provisions discussed was section 97. Section 97 provides for the proceedings of the Family Court, or indeed any court dealing with family law matters, to be heard  in camera  subject to regulations and subject to parties, relatives, etc., being present. That was the principle that was endorsed by this Parliament last year. Because the High Court held that that section was invalid insofar as it was a direction to the courts of the States, the question arises as to how that section should be amended. I indicated then to honourable members that I proposed to talk to the Attorneys-General of the States in relation to this matter to see whether they would apply to State courts under State legislation the principle of section 97 of the Family Law Act. May I say that I have some reservations about the desirability of courts sitting in private. It has always been a basic principle of justice that justice seen is justice done. One of the basic principles of our courts since the time of the Stuarts has been that there ought to be an open administration of the courts. I am not talking about section 12 1 which provides that there shall be no publicity of proceedings in any court. That is a very salutary rule. There is no reason why particulars of divorce cases should be publicised. However, what I am talking about is whether the public should be entitled to go into a court. 
-I am talking about whether the public should be entitled to go into a court. A very significant matter that was referred to me by the Chief Justice of Tasmania was whether contempt proceedings before the Family Court should be dealt with in open court or in closed court. At the moment there are 2 people in Pentridge gaol who were put there under an order for contempt. Those contempt proceedings were heard in closed court. It is most undesirable, and I think honourable members will agree, that anything in the nature of criminal proceedings should be heard in a closed court. It is a basic principle of justice that that should not happen. I ask honourable members to treat what I am saying seriously because I think it raises a very serious question. 
The Chief Judge of the Family Court and other judges have said to me that they believe it would be better if the predominant rule were that the Family Court itself was held in open court as distinct from the principle of section 97. One of the basic reasons, as it was stated once by Bentham, is that 'it keeps the judge himself, while trying, under trial'. It is a very salutary rule that a judge who is being observed, and I make no reference to those matters that are before the court, is a judge who is under public scrutiny. If a member of the public or a member of the Press can go in, not to publicise what is being said by the parties but to see how the proceedings are being conducted, we are more likely to get purer justice administered. That is a basic rule and I commend it to honourable members. 
-I do not regard the question which the honourable member has asked as a matter that falls within my portfolio. Therefore I do not propose to answer it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963-1973 so as to permit the summary prosecution of offences against section 18 of that Act. The Crimes (Aircraft) Act is the basic Commonwealth legislation concerning offences on or in relation to aircraft engaged in flights in and around Australia. It creates a number of offences of varying gravity but, as it now stands, provides only one mode of trial for those offences, namely, trial on indictment. In the years since the first passage of this legislation by Parliament experience has shown that there are many cases arising under section 18 that do not warrant the lengthy processes involved in a trial before a judge and jury nor are they within measurable distance of warranting the maximum penalty prescribed by section 18, namely, imprisonment for 7 years. As it now stands that section makes it an offence for a person, except in the circumstances specified in sub-section (2), to carry or place dangerous goods on an aircraft; deliver dangerous goods to a person for the purpose of their being placed on an aircraft; or be in possession of dangerous goods on an aircraft. 
Honourable members will see that basically these are very serious offences indeed. It will be equally obvious, however, that there can be circumstances which make it totally inappropriate for the offender to be tried before a judge and jury. For example, there have been several cases where undeclared 'dangerous' goods, usually firearms, have been found in passengers' hold luggage. If there is no intent to mis-use the goods on the aircraft the danger created by the presence of those firearms may not be of major significance. Accordingly summary prosecution of offenders falling within this class would provide the adequate deterrent effect and allow for the imposition of the appropriate penalty. 
I need make only 2 more points. Firstly, the consent of the Attorney-General will still be required for any prosecution instituted for an offence against the Act. This will ensure that there is adequate control of proceedings arising out of any infringement of the provisions of the Act. Next, the essence of this amendment is that an offender may only have his case disposed of summarily if both the prosecutor and the defendant agree to that course being taken. It is of course the intention that serious cases be prosecuted on indictment. Additionally, however, this amendment ensures that an accused person will retain his right to insist on a trial by his peers for any offence against this Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam) adjourned. 
The Auditor-General has not sought my opinion. The authority for payments under the agreements that were entered into is contained in section 125 of the Health Insurance Act. Funds are appropriated under the Appropriation Act into the Health Insurance Fund. Section 125 of the Health Insurance Act provides: 
All amounts (including advances) payable by Australia under Fart II, Part III (including an agreement under that Part) or Part IV and amounts of hospital benefits payable under the regulations shall be paid, on behalf of Australia, by the Commission. 
The Health Insurance Fund is set up under the Act and payments are made out of that Fund. The opinion that was tabled last night indicates that in view of the law officers the agreements are not in accordance with sections 30 ( 1 ) and 30 (2) and therefore the authority for payment is not there. There is no authority from this Parliament to make payments under those agreements. As Attorney-General I would feel it my duty, and I think honourable members will agree, that if I felt an agreement which allegedly authorised payment was invalid I should instruct the Government that no such payment should be made until the matter had been cleared up. 
It is a fact that  Mr Massie  is coming back.  Mr Massie  is the Crown Prosecutor in the Australian Capital Territory, and I am one of those who believe that people who have a job ought to do their job. I am concerned that the prosecuting work in the Territory should proceed under the Crown Prosecutor, and that is my reason for bringing him back. As to the other matter to which the honourable member referred, the answer is no. The Government has not given up its endeavours to bring back the Bartons. Further steps are being taken through the courts in Paraguay in order to secure their return. I am still hopeful that it will be secured. Communications have taken place, I understand, between the Prime Minister and the  President  of Paraguay in relation to the matter. 
The Governor-General has been asked to issue proclamations under the Family Law Act terminating the jurisdiction of the supreme courts of the States in family law matters as from 1 June. That will mean that on and from that date the only applications that can be filed in State supreme courts will be those which are ancillary to proceedings already commenced or which are in the nature, I understand, of cross proceedings. However, this does not mean that the Family Court will not service country areas. I am happy to inform the honourable member that in Victoria proposals are afoot for the Family Court to sit at Bendigo, Ballarat, Horsham, Shepparton, Warrnambool, Mildura, Geelong, Sale, Wangaratta and Hamilton. This will be done, of course, under arrangements with the State authorities, and similar arrangements are going ahead in each State. 
-I have not seen the agenda for some time. However, my recollection is that this question is on the draft agenda for the Constitutional Convention which will meet later this year. I understand that some of the States still have some reservations on some provisions in that measure. I apprehend that they will be clarified and dealt with at the Convention. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On Wednesday morning, 24 March, I was contacted by the Chief Justice of New South Wales,  Sir Laurence  Street, who indicated that he thought my answer of the previous day (which in fact was in answer to the Leader of the Opposition), as reported in the Press, was not completely accurate. I informed him that I had since become aware of this and proposed to make a statement correcting it later that day. The Chief Justice gave me certain information which was consistent with the information contained in my subsequent statement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The only discussion of which I am aware is the conversation between the officer of my Department and the Registrar of the Family Law Division of the Supreme Court of New South Wales referred to in my supplementary answer on 6 April 1976 to a question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Hansard,  page 1 343 ). 
This question calls for an interpretation of the law and can only be decided by the courts. The honourable member is, however, referred to rule 299 of the Matrimonial Causes Rules and regulation 1 62 of the Family Law Regulations. 
3 ) I am informed that there were approximately 1 3 000. 
I am informed that there were approximately 6 (where insufficient information was available to indentify the suit). 
The answer to the honourable member's questions ( 1 ) to (5) is as follows: 
The attention of the honourable member is drawn to the reply furnished by the Treasurer to question No. 526 as published in  Hansard on  Wednesday, 26 May 1 976. 
-I cannot, of course, speak for the Solicitor-General who may be asked to advise independently. I have not, from recollection, given any advice other than in relation to the hospital Medibank agreement. I will, however, be looking at other agreements including the agreement in relation to South Australian railways. If any other agreements which were entered into during the term of office of the previous Government are brought to my notice they also will have my attention. The only agreement that I can recall in relation to which I have given advice is the one to which the honourable gentleman referred. 
No. I cannot help you on that at all. 
It is a fact that the SolicitorGeneral and I have given advice flowing from the decision of the High Court on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. In accordance with usual practice the advice has not been published and no decision has yet been made to make it available except to those who are interested. A summary of the views which the Solicitor-General and I have formed in relation to the matter has been made known to the States. 
in reply- I am very grateful to the honourable members who have spoken and for the way in which this debate has been conducted. Indeed I am very grateful to those honourable members who have not spoken because it means we are able to push this very important Bill through this House tonight, that is, if I do not speak for too long. Mention has been made of State Family Courts. I just want to remind honourable members that an historic occasion occurred yesterday in Western Australia when the State Family Court of that 
State was opened and commenced its jurisdiction. That was a very significant step because basic to the Family Law Act was the idea that there ought to be a family law court in which all matters relevant to the family could be dealt with by the one court. One lesson that we learn from the High Court decision- indeed we suspected when we were debating the Family Law Bill last year that we might learn it- is that in Australia under our Constitution the Federal Parliament does not have power to legislate with respect to matters relating to the family and that therefore under our constitutional set-up the only type of court that can deal with all matters relating to the family is a family court set up under State law which is invested with the necessary State and Federal jurisdiction. 
May I say that I am still hopeful that State governments in States other than Western Australia will turn their minds to the setting up of State family courts. I mention that at this stage so that honourable members may be aware that it is still in my mind. Indeed I propose to make approaches to State Attorneys-General again in the light of the High Court decision so that they might consider again whether it would not be desirable to set up State family courts. 
Those courts, of course, would be set up under section 41 and the States would get financial assistance from the Commonwealth. The States would get a pretty fair deal if they accepted this suggestion. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred to the question of closed courts. The more one thinks about it- of course, he stressed the fact that this has not anything to do with publicity- the more one feels the desirability of courts basically being open so that people can go in, see what is going on and feel a certain confidence in the judiciary. 
I do not want to comment on what the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  said because what he said could relate to proceedings which are currently before the Family Court on appeal and indeed in a proceeding in the High Court. It would not be right for me to comment. I would only say that if judges are subject to scrutiny by members of the public it is more likely that there will be quality in the administration of justice. Of course that was the very basis of the rule when it was adopted, I think, in the middle of the 1 7th century. It is a very salutary provision. We ought to keep it in mind. I am very grateful for the support which the Opposition has given in the approach that I am to make to the State Attorneys-General. So at least there will be, one would hope, a provision which will give the judges a discretion to open up the courts and let the public come in and see what is happening. Then I believe there will be much more confidence. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also referred to legal aid. I know this is troubling him. It is troubling other people. Legal aid is not a bottomless pit. I think he will readily agree. There are limits to what any government can do. We are committing legal aid, as I have already told the Parliament, at a rate of $lm a month and we have been proceeding in the same manner as the previous Government. Indeed that was the figure that that Government adopted. Recently the means test was tightened a little. Nevertheless when one looks at the means test it does seem as if it would cover people in need. I realise that there will be odd cases which will be excluded. I am constantly in touch with Legal Aid Offices asking them whether people in real need are being denied aid and I am saying to them: 'Always look to people in cases of real hardship if they might for some technical reason not come within the strict guidelines'. 
In view of what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, let me remind honourable members of the present legal aid means test. It is based on a net disposable income which may not seem large to us- indeed it is not large- but the test is aimed at meeting the needs of people who are in need. The net disposable income of an applicant without dependants must not exceed $40 a week. That figure is not his gross income; that is the amount that is arrived at after deducting the following: Income tax, superannuation contributions, one-half of any board paid by the applicant, the rent or mortgage payments for a dwelling house in which the applicant resides, the municipal rates and water rates for the dwelling house in which the applicant resides, the maintenance payments to the spouse and children of the applicant and payments under hire purchase agreements and credit sales contracts for household goods and furniture used by the applicant in his home. 
Clearly, under that test one could find a person qualifying who might be receiving a gross income of something in the order of $120 or $ 1 SO a week- indeed it might be more. Each case has to be taken separately. In the application of the means test the Legal Aid Office is instructed to look to cases of real hardship that might not come within the requirements, in order to make sure that people of the character mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith will be assisted. I mention that only because I feel that this is becoming an increasing problem, but it is increasing only because to some extent the pressure on the legal aid commitment is growing in the family law area. I think that more than 75 per cent, perhaps 80 per cent, of the legal aid commitment is taken up with family law matters. At the moment I am engaged in speaking to the States about setting up a rationalised legal aid system. A very substantial part of that system is the family law contribution. 
It is my own firm view- I have said this elsewhere and I shall say it to the profession- that in order for us to have an effective legal aid system in Australia the legal profession has to make a more substantial contribution than it is making at the moment. I say that against this background: I believe that at the same time the profession has to have a substantial involvement in the control of legal aid. I think these 2 things go hand in hand. It is on that basis that I shall be speaking to the State Attorneys-General in a few weeks time. We lawyers come from a noble profession. We have a sense of public duty. I have always found solicitors and counsel to be people of honour who are prepared to make their commitment to the needy people in this community. I believe that, given the opportunity, the legal profession will come to live up to that commitment. 
I mention another matter about the Family Court- I say this to the honourable member for Phillip and others. In judging it we ought to remember that the Family Court is not like the courts in which perhaps some of us have been practising. It is a different type of court. It has counselling facilities. It has a child-minding room. In other words, it has all the informality that we are not used to seeing around a court building. Therefore, I think that in judging the Family Court we ought to take these matters into account and not be over-critical in our judgment. We should expect informality. In a sense, that was the intended character of the Court. But, of course, that is no excuse for the action of a judge, if he goes beyond that stage beyond which judges should not go. My constant contact with the Chief Judge of the Family Court leads me to the very firm conclusion that the judges of the Court are busy; that they are working well and working indeed beyond the point to which they might be expected to work. 
I know that in Brisbane, for instance, the Family Court is over-committed in its work. It is working hard. I have no reason to think that the situation is not the same elsewhere. Indeed, the court premises in Brisbane are far less than might be expected of premises for a court. Whatever may happen in the case of an individual judge- of course, that is a matter for an appellate court to deal with- I want to conclude with a defence of the Family Court judges. I do not believe that it is a fair criticism to say that the administration of the Family Law Act by those judges is basically open to criticism. I think they are doing a good and thorough job and they are working hard towards the implementation of the Family Law Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2. 
1 ) Subject to sub-section (2), this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. 
Sections 28 and 29 shall be deemed to have come into operation on 5 January 1976. 
I move: 
Omit the clause and substitute the following clause: 2.(1) Sections 1,2, 16a, 17 and 38 and the Schedule shall come into operation on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent. 
Sections 28 and 29 shall be deemed to have come into operation on 5 January 1976. 
The remaining provisions of this Act shall come into operation on 1 July 1976.'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 3 to 16- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 16a. 
I move: 
After clause 1 6 insert the following new clause:  16a. Section 39 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (9) and substituting the following subsection: "(9) The jurisdiction conferred on or invested in a court by this section includes jurisdiction to hear and determine proceedings transferred to that court in accordance with this Act.".'. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clause 17. 
Section 41 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by adding at the end of sub-section (1) the words (including the provision of counselling facilities for those courts)'; 
I move: 
After paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: (aa) by inserting in sub-section (3), after the word 'instituted ' the words ' and proceedings transferred to that court in accordance with this Act ', ". 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
The Government is not conducting any such campaign. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is in the United Kingdom, I think, at the moment. Contrary to the suggestion in the question, he is there simply to indicate the Government's intention- he will indicate this in other countries that he visits- that there will be an increase in the migration program in the next financial year from, I think, 50 000 to 70 000. Whilst he is there I am sure he will rectify an impression created during the term of the previous Government that people from the United Kingdom were not as welcome as they might otherwise have been. He will no doubt convey that. So far as I am aware no extra staff has been appointed and no special arrangements are being made in relation to the United Kingdom. The position simply is that the Minister will, I imagine, indicate the willingness of the Australian Government to receive immigrants from the United Kingdom as from other countries. In the ordinary course of events one can say, I believe, that those who come from the United Kingdom are, by dint of the content of the Australian population, likely to have those skills which are in demand under our present migration policy. Therefore one might expect that if Britons are told that they are welcome in Australia there will be increased applications from that quarter. They will be dealt with in the ordinary way, as will applications from people from other countries, in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the policy. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a Bill to amend the Marriage Act 1961-1973. In the last couple of years, most of the attention that has been given to the area of family law has concentrated on the new divorce, maintenance, custody and matrimonial property legislation contained in the Family Law Act, and on the new family courts which have been established under that Act. However, it is proper to acknowledge that many of the persons, both inside and outside Parliament, who expressed views both for and against the family law legislation were motivated by a- desire to preserve and protect the institution of marriage. The present Government shares entirely this desire, and the main provisions of this Bill have been included for no other purpose than that of underpinning marriage. The supporters of the Family Law Act saw it as upholding the institution of marriage by reducing the bitterness and humiliation in divorce and other matrimonial proceedings and by offering greater encouragement to parties to be reconciled or to terminate their relationship amicably through the use of marriage counselling. 
This Bill seeks to uphold the institution of marriage by encouraging a greater awareness in persons of the nature, dimensions and responsibilities of marriage before they take the decisive step to enter into marriage. In other words, while the Family Law Act deals with cures, this Bill deals with prevention. 
The Bill contains 4 measures aimed at encouraging stable marriages and discouraging the formation of hasty or ill-advised marriages. Of these measures, I would regard as the most farreaching the provisions in the Bill for the subsidising by the Government of pre-marital education programs. Honourable members will be aware that the Government already provides a substantial subsidy to approved voluntary organisations to offer marriage counselling. The amount for next year will be of the order of $1.9m. Marriage counselling is generally understood to mean the helping of individual spouses or individual married couples or, possibly, small groups of couples with their particular problems. However, the presentation of set programs or courses of pre-marital education that are not related to the particular circumstances of the persons attending them falls outside the concept of counselling. While the Government recognises, and will continue to support, the invaluable counselling work of both the approved counselling organisations and the family court counsellors, we feel that pre-marital education programs and courses can, if supported and made more widely available, also play an important part in helping to reduce marital instability. Accordingly, the Bill enables grants of money to be made to approved organisations for the conduct of pre-marital education programs. Voluntary organisations able and willing to conduct such programs can apply to the Attorney-General for approval. Marriage counselling organisations that are approved under the Family Law Act are deemed to be approved for the purposes of these amendments. In the same way as under the relevant provisions of the Family Law Act, the amendments provide for approved organisations to furnish annual financial statements and reports on their pre-marital education activities. 
I am aware that already several organisations are conducting worthwhile pre-marital education programs. The making of grants under the amendments to organisations will necessarily depend on the availability of funds within the Government's overall budgetary program. An important corollary to assisting the provision of pre-marital education is the need to increase public awareness of the existence of these programs. The assistance given to approved organisations will obviously extend to enabling them to advertise the courses. However, the Government has decided that an additional useful way of drawing the attention of engaged couples to the availability of these programs would be by requiring marriage celebrants to give couples information about the courses on receiving notice from them of the intended marriage. 
This Bill therefore inserts a requirement in the Marriage Act for a celebrant to hand to the parties to an intended marriage a document, in a form to be prescribed, outlining the obligations and consequences of marriage and indicating the availability of both pre-marital education and marriage counselling. The information and advice contained in the document about the obligations and consequences would, of course, be of a practical and non-controversial nature. Honourable members may be assured that the views of marriage registering authorities and marriage counselling organisations would be obtained in the preparation of the document. 
I have already indicated that the proposal to subsidise pre-marital education does not imply any diminution in the importance that, the Government attaches to individual marriage counselling. In fact, in recognition of the benefit that counselling might offer to persons contemplating marriage, the Government has decided that where a person under 18 has been refused parental consent to marry and wishes to apply to a magistrate for his consent instead, the person should first have to attend counselling with an approved marriage counselling organisation under the Family Law Act. Accordingly, the Bill provides that a magistrate is not to proceed with an application for his consent in place of parental consent unless a certificate is produced to him to the effect that the applicant has attended such counselling. Provision is included to enable the magistrate to dispense with the requirement if he is satisfied that counselling facilities are not reasonably available to the applicant. 
Consistently with the policy of the Family Law Act towards the use of counselling, the Bill does not go to the extent of imposing a more general requirement of compulsory attendance at premarital education or counselling. I understand that it is the view of most marriage counselling experts that counselling or education is most likely to be effective where it is sought voluntarily. 
These amendments also reflect the view of the Government that, in the case of young persons, there is still room for recognition of the value of parental views on their intended marriage. Only when a young person and his or her parent are unable to agree on the intended marriage is it felt that counselling should be made a condition of proceeding with that marriage. 
A widely made suggestion for promoting marriage stability is that persons should be made to wait longer before being able to marry. I have received suggestions that persons should have to wait up to 12 months before being able to marry. Although the opinion of marriage counselling experts is somewhat divided on the value of long engagements, the Government saw merit in the proposal to extend the minimum period for giving notice of intended marriage beyond the existing period of 7 days. Proposals for substantial expansion of this period had to be weighed against the consideration that, in principle, arbitrary restrictions on a fundamental right such as the right to marry should not be lightly imposed. The Government decided that the best compromise would be to increase the minimum period of notice of intended marriage to 1 month, which is the period proposed in many of the suggestions received. I might add that the right to apply to a prescribed authority for a shortening of the minimum period for sufficient reason will remain unchanged in the Act. 
I hope that the combination of the amendments to extend the period of notice of intended marriage and to require celebrants to hand the prescribed document to the parties on giving notice will encourage more engaged couples to consider the value of attending a pre-marital education course. Where an engaged couple are experiencing difficulties as they approach marriage, I hope that the information about marriage counselling contained in the document might encourage them, in the extra time they will have to wait before the marriage, to consider consulting a marriage counsellor about their difficulties. 
The remainder of the provisions of this Bill are of a more technical or formal nature. The virtually obsolete action for breach of promise of marriage is abolished. The amendment preserves any pending action for breach of promise, and also preserves any right that a person would otherwise have had to recover gifts given in contemplation of marriage. 
The provisions in the Family Law Act prescribing the circumstances in which a marriage is void are to be incorporated in the Marriage Act, where one would expect to find them. By a curious coincidence, on the 2 occasions when this 
Parliament has approved major reforms of family law, the reform of the law of dissolution of marriage has preceded the reform of the law governing the formation of marriage. The Matrimonial Causes Act of 1959 preceded the Marriage Act of 196 1 and the Family Law Act of last year preceded this Bill. One consequence of this was that the void marriage provisions had to be included in the divorce legislation on both occasions. In rectifying this state of affairs and putting the void marriage provisions in the Marriage Act, some formal drafting changes have been made to what is a highly technical area of law. No changes of substance have, however, been made. 
A number of provisions of the Bill provide for various functions now exercised under the Act by courts and judges or magistrates to be exercised by the family courts and judges of those courts respectively. By family courts I refer to both the Family Court of Australia and State family courts. The amendments would also enable proclamations to be made having the effect of making these functions exercisable exclusively by family courts and family court judges. 
I have introduced this Bill at this late stage in the current sittings so that honourable members and other interested persons and bodies will have the opportunity, which I am sure they will use, of studying its provisions and making representations to me on them before debate is resumed in the next sittings. I feel sure that when they have studied the Bill they will recognise that the Government is making a very real attempt to try and bolster the institution of marriage by the only means that is really likely to work in the long run. This is neither prohibition nor compulsion, but persuasion and inducement to people to increase their self-awareness and awareness of each other when contemplating marriage, and thereby to make with more prudence and consideration what will be their most important decision. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is the first of a series of proposals the Government hopes to bring before the Parliament relating to the revision of the Judiciary Act. 
It is the first step in a thorough revision of that Act and is concerned primarily with the question of relieving the High Court of some of the burden of its original and appellate jurisdiction. A number of the justices of the High Court have drawn attention in recent times to the need for some relief to be given. At the same time the amendments will, I believe, have the effect of strengthening State supreme courts by enabling them to handle cases involving federal jurisdiction which at present are dealt with by the High Court. 
The High Court occupies a position of special importance under our constitutional framework. Not only is it the final interpreter of the Constitution, but it has a significant role as the court of appeal from State supreme courts and other federal courts. In this role, it has achieved recognition throughout the common law world as one of the great common law courts. It is vital to the working of the High Court that it should be left free to concentrate on constitutional issues and on the fundamental issues of law that come before it in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction. 
Before explaining the change that would be made by the Bill, it will be useful to explain, in general terms, the present sources of the High Court's jurisdiction. It has an original jurisdiction, derived in 2 ways. One is directly from section 75 of the Constitution; the other from the power given to the Parliament by section 76 of the Constitution to confer original jurisdiction on the High Court. The matters specified in section 75 and in laws of the Parliament passed under section 76 together make up the content of federal jurisdiction. 
The High Court has an appellate jurisdiction, conferred by section 73 of the Constitution. Section 73 provides for appeals to the High Court from State supreme courts, other State courts exercising federal jurisdiction and federal courts. The Parliament may prescribe exceptions to that appellate jurisdiction, and regulate its exercise. 
The Judiciary Act provides, in general terms, for the appellate and original jurisdiction of the High Court and for the exercise of federal jurisdiction by State courts. In addition, particular Acts provide for the jurisdiction of the High Court, federal courts and State courts in particular matters. The scheme of the Judiciary Act is broadly as follows: 
Section 35 of the Act deals with appeals from State supreme courts to the High Court. It provides for appeals as of right to the High Court in cases defined in terms of a money value of $3,000 and upwards, and in cases involving the status of persons under laws relating to aliens, marriage, divorce, bankruptcy and insolvency. In certain other cases, an appeal lies by leave of the High Court or the State supreme court concerned. Otherwise, an appeal lies only by special leave of the High Court. An appeal can at present lie as of right from a single judge of a Stale supreme court provided the test in section 35 is satisfied. Section 39 of the Act confers federal jurisdiction on State courts. It provides that no appeal lies to the Privy Council from a State court exercising federal jurisdiction. An appeal lies to the High Court from any State court exercising federal jurisdiction where an appeal would lie to the State supreme court and, in other cases, the High Court may grant special leave to appeal from a State court exercising federal jurisdiction. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The High Court is empowered to order the removal into the High Court from a State court of any proceedings involving constitutional issues. Such an order is to be made as of course when sought by the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth or of a State. Where a constitutional issue before a State court involves an  inter se  question, it is automatically removed into the High Court. An  inter se  question is one involving the mutual limits of the constitutional power of the Commonwealth and the States. This provision was inserted in 1907 to prevent the Privy Council from dealing with constitutional questions of an  inter se  character. Appeals in constitutional matters can no longer be taken directly from State courts to the Privy Council. This position was finally established by the Judiciary Act 1968. Section 40A is therefore no longer necessary to meet its original purpose. Nor is section 3 8  a.  Because section 40  a  operates automatically in cases involving  inter se  questions it can cause inconvenience and sometimes can cause insignificant constitutional and other questions to be sent to the High Court. Under the present provisions the High Court may, on an application by a party to the proceedings, remit a matter before it to a State court for trial. 
The principal changes the Bill would make to that scheme are as follows: The relatively low limit of the money value defining appeals as of right from State Supreme Courts to the High Court, $3,000, which was fixed in 1955 and the right of appeal from lower State courts exercising federal jurisdiction mean that matters of lesser significance can come before the High Court. The Bill proposes that the amount of $3,000 be increased to $20,000. An appeal as of right would not he from any State court other than the Full Court of the Supreme Court, nor would it lie as of right where the only ground of appeal is the quantum of damages in death or personal injury cases. In all other cases an appeal would be by special leave only. Special provisions relating to appeals in other Acts would not be affected. 
The provisions of the Judiciary Act, sections 38a and 40  a,  giving the High Court exclusive jurisdiction in matters involving  inter se  questions- except in criminal matters- and ensuring automatic removal of  inter se  questions from State courts into the High Court would be repealed. As I have said they were originally intended to ensure that these matters did not reach the Privy Council by appeal directly from State courts. This is not now possible, so that sections 38A and 40A may be repealed. The provisions for removal of constitutional issues to the be High Court by order of the High Court are to extended to federal and Territory courts as well as State courts. The Attorney-General of the Commonwealth and the States are to be given a right to intervene in proceedings in all courts involving constitutional issues. At present, an Attorney-General may intervene only by leave of the court. Provision is made for the court to award costs against the Commonwealth or a State intervening in proceedings under this power. This should protect litigants from having to pay increased costs as a result of intervention. 
A new provision is to be inserted requiring notice to be given to the Attorneys-General of the Commonwealth and the States of proceedings involving constitutional issues in courts other than the High Court. A provision is included to enable the Commonwealth Attorney-General to compensate parties for any increased costs due to an adjournment of a case for the purpose of giving such notice. A new provision is to be inserted empowering the High Court to order removal into the High Court of a matter of federal jurisdiction from another court. This will enable important questions of federal law to be decided directly by the High Court without having to go through the trial in the other court and an appeal to the High Court. 
The provision for remittal by the High Court of matters to State courts for trial is to be extended in 2 ways. The High Court is to be given power to remit a matter of its own motion. A matter may be remitted to a federal court or a Territory court as well as to a State court. A new provision is to be inserted giving a barrister or solicitor who is on the High Court Roll and entitled to practise in a federal court a right of audience in any State court exercising federal jurisdiction. 
The general effect of the changes will be to provide some relief to the High Court, by restricting the appeals that come to it as of right and enabling it to remit to other courts for trial matters commenced in the original jurisdiction of the High Court. It will provide a firm and more appropriate framework within which the High Court and other courts can operate in the future. The changes will also enhance the jurisdiction of State courts, particularly the State Supreme Courts. The existing provisions forbidding State courts from dealing with  inter se  questions have operated to prevent State courts from making a substantial contribution to the interpretation of the Constitution, since most constitutional issues involve  inter se  questions. Furthermore, the provision that an appeal does not lie as of right to the High Court directly from a single judge of the State Supreme Court or from a lower court of a State will give greater authority to the State Full Courts and Courts of Appeal. 
As honourable members will appreciate, the present Bill contains a number of significant and far reaching reforms to the Judiciary Act. They stem from work done by the Judiciary Act Review Committee which was established in 1968 and I would like to pay tribute to those who worked on that Committee. I propose to reconstitute it for the purpose of completing that review. The Bill is introduced at this time to allow ample opportunity for it to be studied by members of the Parliament, the States and the legal profession before debate on it resumes in the Budget sittings and the Government will be glad to consider representations that are made concerning its terms. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the amount is $135,000 for 62 coatsofarms 28 for the Commonwealth portion of the building and 34 for the State portion. In addition to appropriate coatsofarms at the main Commonwealth entrance and at the main State entrance, coats-of-arms are placed, as is customary, in each court room- 27 Commonwealth and 33 State. The Commonwealth's share of the cost is $60,000 and the State's share is $75,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I met  Mr Fancher  on 15 January 1976. The meeting took place in Canberra. The Premier of Queensland, the UnderSecretary of the Queensland Premier's Department, Professor D. P. O'Connell and the Secretary to my Department were also present. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) I am informed by my Department that there are eight person employed by my Department or by agencies responsible to me in a staff recruiting capacity. Their designation and classification is- 1 x Clerk Class 7 ($13,389-14,238) 1 x Clerk Class 6 ($ 12, 122- 12,969) 1 xClerkClass5($10,856-ll,803) 3 x Clerk Class 4 ($9,59 1- 10,539) 1 x Clerk Class 2/3 ($8,173-9,275) 1 x Clerical Assistant Grade 4 ($7,673-8,0 19) 
I am informed that private employment agencies are not engaged to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
I am informed that the amount is nil. 
I am informed that assistance is obtained from the Commonwealth Employment Service only on rare occasions and in connection with the recruitment of staff to positions which are exempt from the recruitment provisions of the Public Service Act. The Commonwealth Employment Service does not charge for such assistance. 
I rise on the privilege point. I suggest there is a misconception in what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, first of all in relation to the petition. Of course, although I presented the petition honourable members will understand that I presented it because  Mr Sankey  is a constituent of mine and I did not present it in my role as Attorney-General. I am speaking now in my role as Attorney-General and remaining distant from that petition, as I must. 
The first point in relation to the form of the motion, I would submit, is not correct. The House surely must have the power to consider the petition and consider what portion of what is sought it is open to the House to grant. All that the notice of motion seeks to do is to grant such part as the House might deem proper in relation to this petition. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has made it quite clear that  Hansard  itself ought to be ruled out completely and should not be produced for the purpose of these proceedings. That is quite proper. However, it does leave the question of documents. 
On the question of privilege itself, it seemed to me, when listening to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, that he was thinking that by acceding to this motion the House in some way was waiving its privilege; that is to say, waiving that very important privilege that what is said or done in Parliament shall not be made the subject of proceedings in any court. I would simply say to the House that that does not follow at all and, of course, the Leader of the House made that quite clear in what he said. In other words, the question of parliamentary privilege would be taken into account by the court itself. It is the court that breaches the parliamentary privilege by allowing action to be taken on something that is said or done in Parliament. Thus, if these documents were produced and a court allowed some action to be taken or done in relation to the production of those documents in this House on 9 July, that would be a breach of privilege. 
Obviously there are some cases, and the Scientology case is one of them in which what is said or done in Parliament is relevant to the administration of justice. I am not turning my remarks to this particular case, but if I may go to the case of an action for defamation which has a defence of a fair and accurate report of parliamentary proceedings, clearly enough in such a case it would be appropriate to produce in court the  Hansard  record for the purpose of establishing what was said in Parliament m order to determine whether the report in the Press, the alleged defamatory report, was a fair and accurate report of what was said in Parliament. To produce the  Hansard  in such a case would not be an infringement of privilege because Parliament has always recognised that it will not impede the administration of justice. 
For Parliament to claim privilege in relation to such a matter of evidence would be, quite clearly, to impede the administration of justice, as it would mean that a party who had an adequate defence under the law would not be able to establish it unless he first established what was said in Parliament. That only illustrates that in a case such as this, by granting this notice of motion, you are not waiving the parliamentary privilege at all. That privilege still remains. It is still there for the court to take into account. I suggest, with very great respect, that what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has said does misconceive the nature and the effect of the motion before the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons including Diplomatic Agents, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 14 December 1973, was signed by Australia in December 1974. The Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill and the 2 associated extradition amendment Bills will enable Australia to ratify and implement the Convention, which requires that the intentional commission of murders, kidnappings and other acts of violence against diplomats and other persons entitled to special protection under international law be made serious offences under national law. As required by the Convention, the protection is extended by the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill to Heads of State and Foreign Ministers in foreign states. 
The Convention was adopted by the United Nations following consideration in 1972 and 1973 of proposals aimed at combating terrorism around the world and particularly terrorism against diplomats. Attorney-General Bowen spoke for Australia in the United Nations in 1972 in support of a convention against terrorism. The Convention is not yet in force but the United Kingdom and the United States of America have also signed it and have announced their intentions to implement it and ratify it. For many years nations have accepted an obligation to protect diplomatic representatives; these obligations were formalised in conventions adopted in Vienna in 1963. More recent events have shown the need, which the present Convention seeks to meet, to develop and make more effective these obligations. The convention follows in many respects the 1970 convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft and the 1971 Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Aircraft and the 3 Bills likewise follow the general pattern of the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Act 1972, the Crimes (Protection of Aircraft) Act 1973 and the amendments made to the extradition Acts in 1972 and 1973 to implement those conventions. 
Clause 8 of the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill implements the obligation that Australia will accept under article 2 of the Convention to make the intentional commission of the offences described in that article crimes punishable by appropriate penalties which take into account their grave nature. As required by the Convention, jurisdiction will be given to Australian courts to deal with these offences, not only when committed in Australian territory, but also when the alleged offender is an Australian citizen or the offence is committed against an Australian internationally protected person overseas. Jurisdiction will also be given to Australian courts when an alleged offender is found in Australia. The intention is that the provisions of the Act dealing with offences in Australia shall be operative on royal assent. However, the provisions concerning offences committed outside Australia will not be operative until the Convention enters into force for Australia. 
The remaining provisions of the Bill providing for taking suspected offenders into custody, the prosecution of offenders and the proof of various evidentiary matters implement the obligations that Australia will assume under the Convention. These provisions follow, broadly speaking, the legislation dealing with the hijacking and protection of aircraft to which I have previously referred. The definition of 'internationally protected person' in the Convention includes all persons who, under international law, are entitled to special protection from attacks. Lengthy and detailed provisions would be required to describe fully the classes of persons who would come within that description and accordingly provision has been made in clause 17 for the making of regulations specifying these classes of persons. 
With the object that offenders against internationally protected persons be punished, the Convention seeks to ensure that the crimes referred to in the Convention are extraditable under existing extradition treaties and to facilitate the extradition in appropriate cases of alleged offenders. Accordingly, the 2 associated extradition amendment Bills make the new offences extradition crimes for the purposes of Australian legislation. The object of the Convention would largely be defeated if the exclusion provided generally under the extradition Acts in relation to offences of a political character were applicable to the new offences and the 2 extradition Bills therefore provide that the new offences should not be taken to be offences of a political character. 
However, honourable members can be assured that the essential safeguards provided under Australian extradition legislation will not be affected by these amendments. Not only must the Attorney-General be satisfied as to the general propriety of the request for extradition before an extradition may proceed but also sufficient evidence must be placed before an Australian magistrate to justify the trial of the alleged offender. Further, both Acts forbid extradition where there are substantial grounds for believing that the alleged offender might be prejudiced at his trial in the foreign state by reason of his race, religion, nationality or political opinions. Observance of the requirements of the Act can be enforced by a superior court in Australia. With the passage of these 3 Bills, Australia will be able to play its part in the international endeavours to better protect internationally protected persons against terrorist acts of violence. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill was covered in my second reading speech on the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill 1976, 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill was covered in my second reading speech on the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Bill 1976. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The Ombudsman Bill seeks to establish the office of Commonwealth Ombudsman for the purpose of investigating complaints about the administrative actions of officials of government departments, statutory authorities and other official bodies. This Bill will compliment the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act, passed by the Parliament last year, and which is to come into operation on 1 July next. That Act provides for appeals against decisions of Ministers and officials in specified cases. The Ombudsman will be empowered to investigate grievances by members of the public about administrative actions of officials and staff of Commonwealth departments, statutory authorities and other government agencies. 
This Bill, like the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act, had its origin in the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee, under the Chairmanship of  Sir John  Kerr, then  Mr Justice  Kerr. That Committee did not recommend an ombudsman in the form that would be established by the present Bill, but since that Committee reported in 1971 ombudsmen on the pattern of the New Zealand Ombudsman have been established in5 of the 6 Australian States. They have demonstrated a very great need for the office. 
Passage of the present Bill will leave a third aspect of the Kerr Committee's report still to be implemented. That aspect relates to the review by the courts of acts of administrative officers. This is presently achieved by the ancient and cumbersome prerogrative writs. It is important that, in addition to the provision for investigation by an ombudsman of a complaint or appeal to a tribunal on the merits of a decision, the citizen should have ready access to the courts to ensure that the actions of administrative officials are subject to judicial review. I have instructed my Department to prepare proposals to implement this third aspect of the Ken Committee's report. When all this legislation is on the statute books the Commonwealth will have one of the most comprehensive and effective systems of administrative review in the world. The present Bill is substantially the same as the Bill that was before the Senate last year and which lapsed on the dissolution of the Parliament. During the passage through this House of the Bill introduced by the Labor Government we secured a number of important amendments, so that the Bill that lapsed was one having the support of both sides of the Parliament. 

 Mr Speaker, the office of ombudsman is found in many countries of the modern world. The concept of that office as we know it today first emerged in the Scandinavian countries early in the nineteenth century. Other countries, especially those of the common law world, were slow to accept the need for the office. The first was New Zealand in 1962. The United Kingdom followed in 1967. Five of the 6 Australian States have established the office in the last5 years. Six of the Canadian Provinces have ombudsmen. 
As a relatively new institution in the common law countries the ombudsman has attracted considerable attention from commentators. There is as a result a fairly widespread understanding of his methods of operation. I should however give an outline of the significance of the contribution that the Commonwealth Ombudsman will make to our policy for an improved system of administrative review. 
The ombudsman's function is to investigate complaints about administrative actions of officials.  His  concern is principally with the manner or the procedures by which officials have gone about the matter that is the subject of complaint. A complaint to the ombudsman may be directed at a case of delay; or of failure to take sufficient account of certain arguments put by the complainant; or of disregard of a person's privacy as officials make inquiries or go about their duties. The most appropriate general description is that his work is directed at the correction of cases of maladministration- a term which has been described as including bias, neglect, delay, inattention, incompetence, ineptitude, perfersity, turpitude and arbitrariness. Not every complaint to the ombudsman uncovers a case of maladministration. Reports of ombudsmen in those jurisdictions in which the office is established all show in the great majority of cases that the action taken was correct and that the complaint was unjustified. 
Let it not be thought, however, that in those circumstances the Ombudsman is not a necessary institution. If the staff of departments or government authorities are discharging their dudes as expected standards of performance it must follow that the Ombudsman should find against them in only a minority of cases. But the important element is that the citizen who considered that he had a legitimate complaint about official action, or who was doubtful about what was done in his case, has available an external and impartial investigator to inquire into the matter. The strength of the Ombudsman's work lies in the independence and impartiality of his investigation.  His  findings after inquiry are expressed in the form of a report together with recommendations for any remedial action that he considers should be taken. Failure to act on a recommendation of the Ombudsman may lead to a report on that situation being tabled in the Parliament. At no stage is the Ombudsman able to change a decision that he thinks should be reviewed.  His  function is not that of an appeals tribunal but he is able to recommend, with a highly persuasive influence, that a decision he thinks to be unfair or unjust should be varied or reversed. 
The Commonwealth Ombudsman provided for in this Bill will be the first Ombudsman to be established in a federal jurisdiction in the world. In a country the size of Australia this aspect presents some problems in that the operations of his office must be carried out in an essentially personal manner. The Government will ensure that proper arrangements are made in the States for the receipt of complaints and interview of complainants. Because the Commonwealth has special responsibilities in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory it is necessary to ensure that the residents of those Territories have access to the Ombudsman also in respect of matters that in the States would be directed to State Ombudsmen. As I will explain later, the Bill provides, in the establishment of 2 offices of  Deputy  Commonwealth Ombudsman, for the special needs of those Territories. 
I should draw attention to particular provisions of the Ombudsman Bill, for the information of honourable members. A detailed explanation of the Bill is contained in the explanatory memorandum that has been circulated to honourable members. In the substantive clauses the Ombudsman is empowered to investigate complaints about administrative actions of departments and prescribed authorities. The Bill defines the latter term to the effect that statutory authorities and office holders, officially established bodies and companies controlled by the 
Commonwealth can be brought within the Ombudsman's jurisdiction. The only official bodies specifically excluded are those of a judicial nature and the elected Legislative Assemblies of the Territories. Although a complaint would normally be made to the Ombudsman before he investigates a matter, he may also initiate his own inquiries. He is given a limited discretion not to investigate complaints, on grounds related to, for instance, vexatiousness, lack of interest in a matter complained about, or other rights of appeal to a tribunal or court. Before commencing to investigate, the Ombudsman is required to inform the department or authority concerned, and the responsible Minister, of his intention. The Ombudsman is able to conduct his inquiries in a completely informal and flexible manner, according to his own judgment of needs in particular cases. He may enter premises, inspect files and other records, and obtain relevant information from any person who he thinks may be able to assist. There is provision in the Bill for persons to be put on oath and to give evidence, but it is unlikely that the Ombudsman would need to make frequent use of that power. 
The Attorney-General may, under clause 9, give the Ombudsman a certificate that disclosure to the Ombudsman of certain information would be contrary to the public interest, by reason of prejudice to security or defence, or to CommonwealthState relations, or of disclosure of deliberations of Cabinet or of the Northern Territory Executive Council. In such a case the Ombudsman would not be entitled to demand that that information be given to him. Clause 1 4 of the Bill also provides that his access to premises may be restricted where this would prejudice national security or defence. Reports on investigations by the Ombudsman are to be forwarded to the complainant and to the department or authority concerned and to the responsible Minister. The Ombudsman may include recommendations for any remedial action he thinks is necessary. Where there is a failure to take adequate or appropriate action on matters revealed in a report, the Ombudsman may so inform the Prime Minister and the Parliament. The Bill contains provisions recognising the position of the Legislative Assemblies in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Annual reports are to be made to the Minister administering the Ombudsman Act for tabling in the Parliament. More frequent reports may be made if the Ombudsman considers that to be desirable. The Legislative Assemblies of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern 
Territory are to be given reports relating to actions taken under the respective enactments of these Territories. 
The Bill provides for the Ombudsman and a deputy ombudsman to be appointed by the Governor-General and to hold office for a period not exceeding seven years. A deputy ombudsman is to be designated to act in relation to either the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. A deputy ombudsman is given the powers of the Ombudsman in relation to action taken in the Territory for which he is designated, except the power to make reports to the Parliament. The Ombudsman and the deputies are given security of tenure in office akin to that accorded to judges, so that there is little likelihood of an ombudsman's independence of operation being influenced by the executive Government. 
It is intended that debate on the Bill should be resumed in the Budget sittings. This Bill is introduced now to give honourable members an opportunity to study it. The establishment of a Commonwealth Ombudsman will not only enable members of the public to have their grievances investigated; it will also assist this Parliament in its scrutiny of the administrative processes of government. The only sanction that the Ombudsman has, but it is a very powerful one, is in his power to report to this Parliament where a grievance is not put right to his satisfaction. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The question seeks personal information which is not usually made available to members of the public. I do not consider that this practice should be departed from in this case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following table sets out the number of private persons authorized as civil marriage celebrants by the Attorney-General in each State and Territory, together with dates of appointment and the number of marriages recorded as having been solemnized by each celebrant up to 3 1 March 1976. 1 should emphasis that the records do not include marriages solemnized in 1973 and the figures are based on monthly returns supplied by the celebrants themselves. Figures for individual celebrants are not readily available from Registrar's records. 
I have assumed that the Honourable Member's question does not refer to religious celebrants or State officials. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am advised that the answer is No. 
See answer to ( I). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 am informed that regional offices were established at the following locations on the following dates: 
-I am very grateful to the honourable member for giving me the opportunity to indicate what happened in this matter. Under section 19A of the Crimes Act, where a person is serving a term of imprisonment for an offence against a law of the Commonwealth, the Governor-General may, if he thinks it proper so to do in the circumstances, grant to that person by writing under his hand, a licence to be at large. The Governor-General, in all cases, acts on the advice of Ministers. In this case he acted on my advice. Even when a Prime Minister is dismissed the Governor-General has to act on the advice of Ministers. 
The new advisers take responsibility for the action of dismissal. I cannot honourable members opposite to know that point of constitutional law. Let us get back to the substance of this question. I emphasise that in this case the Governor-General acted wholly on my advice. This matter relates to a charge against one, Julie Joy Barrett. Honourable members opposite who are trying to interject should treat this matter seriously because the reputation of people is involved. Julie Joy Barrett was charged with 2 offences: One of importing a prohibited import, cannabis, and another of having in her possession a prohibited import, cannabis, under sections 233B(1B) and 233B(1C) of the Customs Act 1901. She came before the District Court in Brisbane and pleaded not guilty. She defended these charges, but she was found guilty by the jury. 
She was sentenced by Judge Gibney to 6 months imprisonment from 12 May 1976 and she was due for release, with ordinary remissions for good behaviour, on 26 September 1976. 1 am told that in fact she was released on licence pursuant to the Governor-General's direction on 16 August 1976. 
I am told by my Department that Miss Barrett was employed by Trans-Australia Airlines as an air hostess. She was stationed at Cairns in Queensland. I am told that on 3 June 1975 she arrived at Cairns on board a TAA aircraft which had been on a round trip to Port Moresby. Inside her luggage Customs officers found 4 packets of cannabis weighing a total of 55 grams. In a record of interview the prisoner claimed that she was not aware of the presence of the cannabis in her luggage and that the bag in which it was found was not hers but had been lent to her by a friend. Although she furnished the name and address of the friend, no such friend was found, in spite of extensive inquiries. As the traffickable quantity of cannabis under the Customs Act is 25 grams, her offence attracted the higher scale of penalties under that Act. 
This matter came before me as the result of an application by her solicitors dated 29 June 1976. That application was supported by a number of certificates as to her character. One was from a justice of the peace, another from a bank manager, another from a district governor of Lions, another from the principal of a State high school, another from a former member of the Legislative Assembly in Queensland, and another from a former Attorney-General dated in 1974. There was a reference from the managing director of a company which was indicating its willingness to employ her and a reference from a person described as a promotional manager. These certificates went to her good character. 
I should explain to honourable members that in Queensland parole is not usually directed by the judge, and therefore no assistance is gained from the judge in relation to when a prisoner should be released on parole. Of course, honourable members will be aware of the fact that in many States the date on which parole ought to be first considered is directed by the judge. I am instructed by my Department that in relation to Queensland the practice has always been that when a Federal prisoner has served half the sentence he or she is entitled to be considered for parole. It will be noted that half Miss Barrett's sentence expired on 11 August and she was released on 16 August. I received no representations other than those from the solicitor, and I think there was a parole application by the prisoner herself. Apart from that, I received no applications from members of parliament or anybody else. I dealt with this matter in the ordinary way. I exercised my discretion in the ordinary way. 
Although I did not have it at the time I exercised my discretion, there was in existence a document which came to my Department, I think, on the very day I exercised my discretion. First of all, it included a superintendent's report which indicated that Miss Barrett was received on 12 May 1976; she was employed on a sevendayaweek basis in the kitchen; during this time she carried out her duties in a satisfactory manner; and the superintendent considered her to be a suitable candidate for parole. That report was dated 3 August 1976. On 10 August the Comptroller-General of Prisons,  Mr Whitney,  said that he had seen Miss Barrett on a number of occasions at the female prison attending to her duties as laid down by the superintendent of that prison. 
He said that her conduct and industry appeared to be very good and she was most respectful at all times. He agreed with the classification committee and the superintendent's recommendation and recommended favourable consideration of her application. That confirms the judgment that I had formed that this young lady was a person of good character. I know that there have been statements in the Press about it but I refuse to judge people by tittle tattle and innuendo. I do not think that any honourable member would want me to do that. I approached this matter in exactly the same way as I would have approached any other matter. 
There is no new precedent in this case. May I say this:- She was appointed as a civil marriage celebrant by Attorney-General Murphy on 5 April 1 974. 
No, it was not. 
No. It was not the next day. It was on a much later occasion or a much earlier occasion, I forget which. I hope that the honourable member is not jealous of the fact that he was the only parliamentarian appointed, and whilst I am Attorney-General he will be the only parliamentarian appointed. I should indicate to the House that upon learning of Miss Barrett's conviction on the drug charge I decided to revoke her authorisation as a civil marriage celebrant. I did this by letter to her on 1 7 May 1 976. The conduct of this matter has been completely normal and usual and, I hope, in the highest tradition of law officers of the Crown. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973, as amended, to give effect to the report on remuneration payable to judges made by the Remuneration Tribunal on 21 June 1976 and a subsequent report made by the Remuneration Tribunal on the remuneration payable to the  President  of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The Remuneration Tribunal reported that certain alterations were desirable in the remuneration and travelling allowance payable to justices and judges of Federal courts, and of the supreme courts of the Territories and persons who, by virtue of an Act, have the same status as a justice or judge of such courts. 
I should point out to honourable members that the salaries payable to High Court judges pursuant to the Bill are only marginally above those paid to supreme court judges in New South Wales and Victoria. Those payable under the Bill to Industrial Court judges and Territory judges are well below those paid to supreme court judges, even though judges of the Industrial Court and the Territory courts share similar status to judges of the State courts. 
As well as judges, the offices affected are: Chairman of the Prices Justification Tribunal, 
President and Deputy Presidents of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, President of the Trade Practices Tribunal, Director-General of Security, Chairman of the Law Reform Commission, Chairman of the Grants Commission and President of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
I turn now to the substantive clauses of the Bill. Clause 2 provides that the Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on 1 June 1976. The rates of salary, annual allowance and travelling allowance specified in Schedule 3 will be payable on and from that date. Clause 3 repeals section 13 and 14 of the principal Act and replaces them with one section, section 13. References that I now make are to the subsections of the new section 13. Sub-section (1) provides for salary, annual allowance and travelling allowance at the rates specified in Schedule 3 to be applicable to a judicial or other office specified in column 1 of that Schedule. Subsection (2) provides for payment of additional remuneration and annual allowance to the  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal where he is not also the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court or  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The rates of additional remuneration and annual allowance are $ 1 ,000 and $250 per annum respectively. 
Sub-section (3) applies the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 to the  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal where the  President,  not being the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court or  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, dies; or being a judge, of a Federal or Territory supreme court, retires as such a judge; or retires from an office which entitled him to the status of a judge of the Australian Industrial Court. The Judges' Pensions Act will apply in each case as if the person concerned had been the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court immediately before his death or retirement. Sub-section (4) provides in effect for additional remuneration and annual allowance to be paid to the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal if he is a judge, within the meaning of the Prices Justification Acts 1 973, but is not the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court or  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The rates of additional remuneration and annual allowance are $ 1 ,000 and $250 per annum respectively. 
Sub-section (5) applies the Judges' Pensions Act to the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal if he is also a judge within the meaning of the Prices Justification Acts 1973, other than the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial 
Court or the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in certain circumstances. The circumstances contemplated are where the  Chairman  dies; being a Judge of a Federal Court, other than the High Court, or a Territory supreme court, retires as such a judge; or retires from an office which entitled him to the status of a justice or judge of one of those courts. The Judges ' Pensions Act will apply in each case as if the  Chairman  had been the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court immediately before his death or retirement. 
Sub-section (6) provides for payment of an additional annual allowance at the rate of $250 per annum to the senior judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. Sub-section (7) provides for payment of remuneration and annual allowance to the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission holding office on 1 June 1 976 at the rates of $39,500 and $2,250 per annum respectively. 
Clause 4 substitutes a new Schedule for Schedule 3 in the principal Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
by leave- I have 3 amendments which propose the insertion of 2 new clauses and 2 amendments to the Schedule. The part of the Schedule to be amended states: 
The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting the words 'of this Act ', ' to this Act ', 'of this section ' and 'of this sub-section ' (wherever occurring): 
Sections 2 ( 1 ), 5 ( 1 ) (definitions of 'authorized celebrant', 'magistrate', 'marriage officer', 'overseas country', 'prescribed authority', 'recognized denomination' and 'the commencement of this Act'), 8 (2), (3) and (4), 9(l)(d),  (0  and (g), 10, 12(2), (3) and (4), 13(1) (a), 14(1), (2) and (4), 16(3) and (4), 19(1), 21 (2) (b), 33 (4), 42 (5), (7) and ( 10), 45 (3), 46 (2), 48(2), 50(3), 52 (definition of 'proclaimed overseas country'), 54 (b), 58 (2) (a), 61 (4) (b) and (c), 68 (1), 73, 76(l)(b) and (2), 77(2), 80(3) and (4) (a) and (b), 83 ( 1), 85 (4), 95 (3) and (4), 96 (2), 98 (2), 99, 101,102,104,105,106 (a), 111(1), (2) and (3), 1 12 (4), 113(1), (4) and (7), 1 15 (2), (3) and (4), 117(1) and (2) and 120 (c), (e),  (0,  (g) and (h). 

<graphic href="100131197608190_78_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="100131197608190_78_1.jpg"></graphic>

I move: 
After clause 27, insert the following new clauses: "28. (1) At any time after this Act receives the Royal Assent and before the commencing date, regulations may be made under the Principal Act as amended by this Act as if all the provisions of this Act had come into operation on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, but regulations so made shall not take effect before the commencing date. "(2) In this section, 'commencing date' means the date fixed by Proclamation under sub-section (3) of section 2. "29. The Schedule to the  Administrative Appeals TribunalAct  1975 is amended by omitting Pan XX. ". 
In the Schedule, omit from clause 2, "33 (4),". 
In the Schedule omit from clause 6- 

<graphic href="100131197608190_78_2.jpg"></graphic>

Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
in reply- Let me say at the outset, to make it quite clear, that as I understand it there is only one question that is really in dispute and that is the question relating to the period of 7 days or I month. Let me make it quite clear to those who sit behind me that they may vote according to their conscience on this matter. Indeed, that has been clear from the beginning. I invite them so to do. If they wish to cross the floor when the amendment is put, then in accordance with our Party's position that will be a matter for them and nobody will be concerned about that because they will be voting according to their conscience. That is how it ought to be. 
In the second reading speech I made the general purpose of this Bill quite clear. In the Family Law Bill we attempted to deal- I believe we did so in a very realistic way- with the community attitudes towards divorce. We sought to review the law on divorce and to implement in that Bill the will of this Parliament. We had a very interesting debate last year. It is regrettable that so many members who are here now were not members of this House then. It was a debate in which we all shared, which went on for some weeks and in which we were conscious- both sides agreed; I am not talking now on political party lines- of the need to underpin the institution of marriage. Indeed, we went so far as to put into the Bill- the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  was not a member of this House at the time- one view about marriage. Section 43 (a) of the Family Law Act says:  the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
That is a decision of this Parliament. 
The honourable member who is interjecting voted for that. That is the definition that we adopted. The honourable member for Grayndler of course said that we had never attempted to put down in words what marriage is. We adopted our traditional view of marriage. 
The honourable member for Grayndler tonight seemingly was trying to take up the cry of  Brave New World.  He tried to avoid his middleclass background. I thought it was very noticeable that the occasion tonight so far as he was concerned was a family affair, and if I can speak of that particular marriage, it is one of a union of a man and woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life, and he is the issue of it. If the honourable member tried to eschew his middle-class background tonight and say that marriage depends on economics he eschewed the marriage of which he is the issue because it is not based on that at all. He said it depends on something to do with the clinic in Leichhardt or the like. Marriage is not that at all and he knows full well that it is not. This Bill was laid on the table in May and the purpose of that was to let everybody in the community say what he wanted to say about it. That was a very democratic thing to do. We wanted to get community attitudes. We got some community attitudes. A few groups supported the view that the honourable member put but most of them applauded, if I may use the expression, the amendments in this Bill. 
You are a great help. Most of them applaud the amendments in this Bill, including the one in question. It was never said that by extending the period of notice of intention to marry from 7 days to 28 days or one month that it would have the effect of suddenly getting rid of all divorces or solving all marriage problems, but the fact that there are still one thousand applications for divorce in this country every week is a serious fact to comprehend because on statistics, as I understand it, when we take into account Western Australia as well, and it is not included in those figures - 
Because there is a State Family Court there. Taking that into account I understand that the result is that there are more divorces in this country at the moment than marriages and that is a very serious fact to contemplate for all of us in this Parliament. Therefore there is a need to underpin the institution of marriage. When the matrimonial reforms were introduced in the late 1950s and early 1960s their purpose was assisted by the introduction of voluntary counselling provisions, and it is well known that Australia leads the world in marriage counselling. We are a country that has attempted to put funds into voluntary marriage counselling in a way, proportionately to our population, that other countries have not done. So we lead the world in this field. Of course, as honourable members on this side have mentioned, this was the result of initiatives taken. 
This year we are increasing our grants to voluntary marital organisations from $1.6m to $1.9m. That is a very substantial increase and indicates the concern of the Government to underpin the institution or marriage. What I have described as the most significant part of this measure is that we are giving grants for premarital education because whereas in the past we have tended to concentrate on the parties during the marriage, this Bill tries to underpin the attitudes of those entering marriage. So we will make grants to enable pre-marital education courses to be adopted. If honourable members have studied the Budget they will have seen that in this current year we have provided an amount- - not a large amount, but it is a start- of $50,000 that will be used later in the year to make grants for pilot schemes for this purpose. If I may say so, that is the most significant part of this Bill. Not many honourable members have mentioned it, but I want to stress it again. 
I said earlier that I did not believe for one moment- I do not think I ever suggested it- that by increasing the time for giving notice of intention to marry from 7 days to one month we would suddenly solve all problems. However, this proposal emphasises the fact that those entering marriage ought to think more carefully about it and about the obligations of marriage. If they do they are more likely to have a more lasting marriage. That is the theory behind it. As I said, public opinion that has come to the Department on this matter and from people quoted in the Press, has generally applauded the provision. I do not want to go right through the examples. There are views from bishops of churches, both Catholic and Protestant, marriage guidance organisations and from individuals. Some churches say that the requirement should be 3 months instead of one month. The tendency is generally the other way. One example that perhaps to some extent goes the other way is from a woman from Victoria. I will not mention her name. She said: 
This change will not prevent unhappy marriages. 
If that is the broad proposition one can accept it, but if it means that some young people will not contemplate a little longer before they get married that is not an acceptable proposition. Father Bernard- I will mention his name because he is one of the leaders in pre-marital education in Australia- in a telegram said: 
This change of no effect unless pre-marital counselling available. 
Pre-marital counselling will be available. The Director of the Marriage Guidance Counsel in one of the States said that the provision would not make much difference. I shall quote a view in favour of those who oppose the provision. One view states that the provision 'is placing another restriction on peoples lives'. I shall not go through all the views. I do not want to delay too long. The bulk of the views support the amendment. In some cases they suggest that the time be longer than one month. 
Let us look at a particular matter. Some honourable members seems to want to escape it all the time. The fact is that a prescribed authority in one case and the marriage officer in the other- as provided in section 66- according to the circumstances of a case, can shorten the time if he or she wants, to one minute. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  mentioned the case of a girl who is about to have a child. That is an obvious case. It is already dealt with in the Act. The prescribed authority, as defined, can shorten the time and say: 'I shall marry you now'. The honourable member for Hunter raised a few legal points and asked for my assistance. I shall try to give it to him. First, in relation to a birth certificate, an applicant does not have to have his birth certificate if he wants to get married. If he has lost it he need not worry about it; he can make a statutory declaration because the Act so provides. The other question the honourable member asked me related to whether an applicant could appeal. He can appeal against a magistrate's refusal to grant consent to the marriage of a minor where the father and mother do not give consent. Indeed, there is a provision in the Bill that will allow an appeal- if this Bill goes through, as I am sure it will- to the Family Court of Australia. So there is every right of appeal for a full re-hearing in the matter. Therefore I can tell the honourable member for Hunter that people 's rights are well and truly protected. They are protected, if I may so with respect, even in relation to the amendment that I understand that he intends to support which says that we should not adopt the clause which extends the time from 7 days to 1 month. 
I do not want to delay the House for too long but other matters were raised in the debate. The honourable member for Grayndler said that what we needed was research into what makes marriage go awry. I think that is what he said. May I say that in the Family Law Act there is provision to set up an Institute of Family Studies. If the honourable member looks at the Budget he will find that $80,000 has been set aside to establish that institute in the second half of this year. 
The sum of $80,000. He will also find an amount of $25,000 set aside to establish a Family Law Council. Those institutes could have been set up last year. They could have been set up by the Labor Government last year but that was not done. The result is that we have been delayed for this long. To get to the real point, and it is the real point, there will be an institute in this country which will do the sort of things that the honourable member suggested and its establishment will be the result of the combined will- not the Labor Party will, but the combined will- of this Parliament as expressed in the Family Law Act. The honourable member spoke a great deal about civil liberties. I regret very much that tonight in this House he again brought up the question of the GovernorGeneral's marriage. All I can say to the honourable member is: never let a man - 
The honourable member spoke about civil liberties. If there is one thing that ought to be private in this country it is a man's marriage but in recent months, honourable members opposite have consistently sought to drag this matter before this Parliament. One thing I would like to say to the honourable member is this: Never let a man drag you so low that you begin to hate him. That is exactly what people like the honourable member for Grayndler are doing. I repeat: Never let a man drag you so low that you begin to hate him. That is exactly what the honourable member is expressing towards the Governor-General of this country. Every honourable member on the Opposition side of the House needs to think about that matter. That was the belief of that famous man Dag Hammarskjold. He had an idea about life which honourable members opposite might well adopt. When honourable members opposite get up in this House and talk about civil liberties, the rights of the individual and not being middle class they should think of the right of any man in this country. Think about that. I assume that the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  went overseas, had his holiday and was told when he came back: 'Now look, lay off the Governor-General.' What did we see tonight? He came into this House, sat alongside the honourable member for Hunter and listened to his son take over the role of the dirt slinger. I hope that for the sake of the honourable member for Grayndler in politics he does not continue in that fashion. That is all I can say. 
Now, let us get on to another subject. We are going to receive some new amendments tonight and I just want to quietly and shortly explain to honourable members that these amendments are purely formal and are matters of no great debate. 
One of them, for instance- it is really the only matter of substance, I would think- brings into the Marriage Act the definition of domocile that is in the Family Law Act. In other words, it will bring the Acts into line. There are other provisions which introduce formally into the Marriage Act amendments that were made through the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act last year. The purposes of those amendmentsperhaps I should refer to them now to save time later- are purely formal. I do not think they will trouble honourable members. 
I wish to refer to one final matter and that is the document that is troubling some people. It troubled the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  if I recall correctly. I listened very carefully to what he said. I also listened very carefully- as honourable members will have observed- to what the honourable member for Grayndler said. I am very conscious of what each of these honourable members has said about this Bill. May I say that in the formulating of this document every member of the House- indeed of the Parliament- is welcome to make whatever suggestions he wishes. I am also prepared as Attorney-General to invite honourable members along on a non-party basis to discuss the form of this when I get it in a draft. Let me assure honourable members that it is not my intention for one moment to lay down what I simply regard as the obligations and consequences of marriage. The purpose is not to be moralistic. The purpose of it, firstly, is to explain to young people what the basic obligations and consequences of marriage are and, secondly, to tell young people where they can get pre-marital counselling. Honourable members opposite can get all worked up about that on the grounds of civil liberties if they like but it is not the State attempting to be moralistic. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: '2(1) Sections 1, 2 and 28 shall come into operation on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent. 
Sections 12b and 29 shall be deemed to have come into operation on 1 July 1976. 
The remaining sections of this Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation. 
For the purposes of references in this Act to the commencement of this Act, this Act shall be taken to have commenced on the date fixed under sub-section ( 3 ). '. 
The purpose of this amendment simply is to enable the Act to come into force on varying dates, depending on the sections. I think the purpose of it will be apparent to honourable members. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
Section5 of the Principal Act is amended: 
by inserting in sub-section (1), after the definition of Ambassador', the following definition: " 'approved organization' " means an organization approved or deemed to be approved under Pan 1a; 
b ) by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), after the definition of Consul', the following definition:  "Family Court of a State " means a Family Court of a State that has jurisdiction under the  Family Law Act  1975 by virtue of a Proclamation under section 41  of that Act;'; and 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the definition of Judge ' andsubstituting the following definition:  "Judge", in relation to the performance of a function under this Act in a State or Territory, means a person who is: 
a Judge of the Family Court of Australia who is appointed by the Attorney-General to be a person authorized to exercise that power or function; 
a Judge of a court of that State in respect of whom an appropriate arrangement in force under section 9 is applicable; or 
a Judge of the Supreme Court of that Territory; '. 
by leave- I move: 
1 ) In paragraph (b), omit the word 'and'. 
At end of clause add the following word and paragraph: ; and (d) by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: "(4) In ascertaining the domicile of a person for the purposes of this Act: 
a person's domicile at any time (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) in any country, howsoever acquired, shall be deemed to have continued, or to continue, until the acquisition by that person of a domicile of choice in another country; 
the domicile of a woman who is, or has at any time been, married shall be determined as if she had never been married; and 
a person who has attained the age of 1 8 years, or a person who has not attained that age but is, or has at any time been, married, has, and shall be deemed to have had at all times since that person attained that age or became married; the capacity to acquire a domicile of choice. ' '. '. 
The first amendment simply omits the word and' and the second amendment introduces the concept of domicile that is in the Family Law Act. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses 12a and 12b. 
Motion (by  Mr Ellicott)-  by leave- agreed to: 
After clause 12, insert the following new clauses: " 12a. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) and substituting the following sub-sections: 
A Registrar shall not remove the name of a person from a register under this section on a ground specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of sub-section ( 1 ) unless: 
he has, in accordance with the regulations, served on the person a notice in writing: 
stating his intention to do so on that ground unless, not later than a date specified in the notice and being not less than 21 days from the date of service of the notice, the person satisfies the Registrar that his name should not be removed from the register; and 
informing the person that any representations made to the Registrar before that date will be considered by the Registrar; 
he has considered any representations made by the person before the date specified in the notice; and 
the removal takes place within 14 days after the date specified in the notice. 
Where notice is served on a person under sub-section (2), that person shall not solemnize a marriage unless and until: 
he is notified by the Registrar that the Registrar has decided not to remove his name from the register; 
a period of 14 days has elapsed from the date specified in the notice under sub-section (2) and his name has not been removed from the register; or 
his name, having been removed from the register, is restored to the register. '. " 12b. ( 1 ) Section 34 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 34. (1) An application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of a decision of a Registrar made on or after 1 July 1976: 
refusing to register a person who has applied for registration under this Division; or 
b ) removing the name of a person from a register in pursuance of section 33. 
For the purposes of such a review, the Tribunal shall be constituted by a presidential member alone. 
The reference in sub-section (1) to a decision of a Registrar includes a reference to a decision of a Deputy Registrar of Ministers of Religion given in pursuance of subsection (2) of section 27. '(4) Where the Tribunal sets aside a decision refusing to register a person or a decision under section 33 removing the name of a person from a register, the appropriate Registrar shall forthwith register the person, or restore the name of the person to the register, as the case requires. '(5) For the purposes of the making of an application under sub-section ( 1 ) and for the purposes of the operation of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 in relation to such an application, where a person has made application under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 30 for registration under this Division and, at the expiration of a period of 3 months from the day on which the application was made, the person has not been registered and has not been notified by the Registrar that his application has been refused, the Registrar shall be deemed to have decided, on the last day of that period, not to register that person. '. "(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of section 34 of the Principal Act, the provisions of that section continue to apply in relation to a refusal to register a person, or the removal of the name of a person from a register, that took place before the commencement of this section. ". 
Clause 13. 
1 ) Section 42 of the Principal Act is amended: 
by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) the words "the seventh day" and substituting the figure and word " 1 month"; 
by omitting from sub-section (5) the words "the seventh day" and substituting the figure and word " 1 month"; and 
by inserting after sub-section (5) the following subsection: "(5a) An authorized celebrant shall, as soon as practicable after receiving the notice referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), give to the parties a document in the prescribed form outlining the obligations and consequences of marriage and indicating the availability of pre-marital education and counselling.". 
in reply- I feel that I should say something in answer to what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said. Concerning penalties, there is an attempt in clause 8 to deal with the differences between the various offences. The offence of threatening attracts a penalty of imprisonment for a period not exceeding  1  years.- The other punishments are much more serious. Where an attack causes death, the penalty is imprisonment for life. In other words, the Government takes the view that these provisions do provide a satisfactory system for imposing adequate penalties for particular crimes. 
The Government can not accept the suggested amendment to clause 9 which would leave out the word 'and had no reason to suspect'. The offence has 2 elements- on one hand, kidnapping and murder which involves  mens rea  or criminal intent, and, on the other hand, whether the person involved is an internationally protected person. Clause 9 is directed to the latter. If an amendment of the nature suggested were made to that clause, all the defendant would have to do would be to get into the witness box and say: 'I did not know that he was an internationally protected person'. Having in mind the types of people who would be likely to commit this sort of crime, if I may suggest that, such an amendment would provide an opening for such people to escape conviction for the particular serious crimes. Therefore we could not accept such an amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Clauses 1 to 8- by leave- taken together, and agreed to: 
Clause 9. 
It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence against this Act if the defendant proves that he did not know, and had no reason to suspect, that the person in relation to whom, or in relation to whose premises, accommodation or means of transport, the offence is alleged to have been committed was: 
a person referred to in sub-paragraph 1 (a) of article I of the Convention; or 
a representative or official of a state or an official or other agent of an international organization of an inter-governmental character or a member of the family of such a person forming part of his household. 
I repeat that there are 2 elements in these offences. Whether we are dealing with a threat, a straight-out murder, a threatened murder, or a threatened kidnapping, it does not really make any difference. There are just 2 parts to these offences. One is that the person either murders or threatens to murder; the other is that the person who is the victim is an internationally protected person. It is in relation to the second part that clause 9 is relevant and, I think, has to do with the question of whether the person either knew or ought to have known. The idea that a person ought to have known is a well known concept to both our civil law and our criminal law. There are many instances- I will not go to them- in the Trade Practices Act, the Foreign Takeovers Act and other Acts where there are less serious offences in relation to which the 2 concepts of knowing or ought to have known, or ought reasonably to have suspected, etc.- they are put in different ways- are used. Therefore we do not propose to accept the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
in reply- I do not wish to take up the time of the House for too long. I think that the significance of this measure has been underlined by every  speaker.  The Government is very grateful for the way in which speakers have spoken constructively about this measure which, admittedly, is one of the most important measures with which this House will deal this year. It will have a longstanding effect on the relationship between the citizen and government. In the course of the past few months I have received some suggestions about the Ombudsman Bill some of which I shall not be adopting here. On the other hand, I just wish to say that shortly- the Government hopes to set up the Administrative Review Council. That is a body which will consist of public servants as well as the  President  of the Administrative Review Council, the Ombudsman when he is appointed and various other experts in this field. As the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  pointed out, it is very important that this type of legislation be subject to constant review. The Administrative Review Council will have before it from time to time suggestions for amendments. They will include any that I have not taken up on this occasion so that the Administrative Review Council can consider them. 
A deal has been said about actions by Ministers. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  referred to the immigration portfolio and the Immigration Act. Having been the Acting Minister for Immigration for 5 weeks, I can assure the honourable member that the Minister does not always follow the advice of officials. The honourable member should not assume that what he thinks is always so. I hope that Ministers exercise an independent discretion as they should do. As to the actions of Ministers, there are distinctions drawn- these have been mentionedbetween policy decisions and purely administrative decisions. The actions of Ministers are subject to review. With regard to policy, Ministers are questioned daily in this House. It is a very searching time for a Minister if the questions themselves are searching. 
On the other hand, honourable members will recall the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, which was set up under the Appeals Act of last year, and enables Ministers' discretions to be looked at in various fields. I am in the course of having my Department go through the regulations and other provisions of Commonwealth law to identify discretions of Ministers that may appropriately be the subject of review by that particular body. Quite apart from that, the discretions of Ministers have always been subject to judicial review under those long old writs to which the honourable member for Diamond Valley referred. Ministers are not immune from the courts. They are not immune from the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and they are certainly not immune from this Parliament. So Ministers are subject to scrutiny. 
One amendment has been proposed- and I am inclined to look upon it favourably- in relation to the actions of delegates of Ministers. I will address the House, if I may, in relation to the proposed amendment concerning the appointment of the Ombudsman, which is a significant matter. Honourable members will notice that when this Bill came before the House last year the proposed amendment was:  but shall not be appointed until each House of Parliament has approved of the proposed appointment. 
The present proposal is:  and shall be a person whose appointment has been recommended by resolutions of both Houses of Parliament. 
So the proposals are quite different. In one case the Parliament would dictate. Under our proposal the Parliament would approve, which is quite a different situation. We were giving the Executive the power to chose with a right of veto in the Houses. The Opposition's proposal is to give the Houses the right to choose. Quite apart from that, may I say that the previous AttorneyGeneral invited us to reflect. Honourable members will notice what he said on this matter. We did reflect on it and we have had the advice of the officials that he had behind him on that occasion. 
Not only that, in this time of reflection we have changed our minds. Honourable members opposite will notice that the Bill put forward by the Labor Government provided that the Ombudsman would be, in effect, appointed for a long term- until 65 years of age- but he could be removed by an address from both Houses of Parliament for misconduct. That provision applies to judges. We have not done that. What we have done is to provide that an ombudsman must be appointed for not more than 7 years, so that he is subject to constant scrutiny. I think a persuasive argument in this area is that- if the Ombudsman had to be appointed by Parliament people may indeed be reluctant to offer themselves for appointment to the position. We are not used to this system in Australia and I think we need to consider the effect such a provision might have on suitable applicants. We do not, for instance, require our judges to be appointed or their appointment to be approved by Parliament. One might say: 'If the appointment of the Ombudsman is to be handled in this way why do we not do the same with judges?' The Auditor-General, for instance, is in a similar situation, although not quite the same, and of course he is appointed by the Executive. This is a very significant matter. The Government has given it close consideration and we have come to the view that we are not disposed to accept that foreshadowed amendment. 
May I in conclusion say that this measure is one of a number. The fact that it is has already been mentioned. I am at the moment considering proposals for judicial review of administrative decisions which will simplify the procedures, but may I say that as part of that proposal there will be an administrative procedure part of the relevant Act which would be designed to apply basic rules of natural justice to all administrative tribunals so as to ensure that all Commonwealth tribunals see that people are treated fairly, that they get the opportunity to be heard, and so on. This would apply to any Commonwealth tribunal that was operating in that way. So there is a fourth arm to this reform of administrative review. I conclude, as I concluded my second reading speech, with the words 'I commend this Bill to the House'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4- by leave- taken together. 
For the reasons I have already given the House, the Government does not accede to that amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-Honourable members will recall that during the term of the Labor Government proceedings were instituted in Paraguay in order to secure the return of the Bartons. I think it started with Attorney-General Murphy and went on to Attorney-General Enderby. There was an application before a judge which was refused. The application went on appeal to another judge of a court of appeal and that was refused. Then on a date which I hesitate to mention, namely 1 1 November last year, there was an appeal to the Supreme Court of Paraguay. That appeal was heard. The Supreme Court of Paraguay gave judgment on 24 February this year rejecting the appeal. On or about 19 May this year an application was made to the court in Paraguay, seeking what is called rectification of the original documents- a procedure that was advised to the Australian Government for the purpose of trying ultimately to obtain the return of the Bartons. That application for rectification came before a judge. It was rejected on 30 June last, I think it was. There is an appeal against that and that appeal hopefully will come on for hearing soon. I simply want to reiterate that the present Government has been constantly attempting, as indeed was the previous Government, to obtain the return of the Bartons to Australia. That endeavour will continue until the processes of law in Paraguay have been exhausted or other processes of law which are within the competence of the Australian Government to take have been exhausted. 
The word 'sovereignty' needs to be understood. The High Court has held that sovereignty over the territorial sea, the continental shelf and the seabed of the territorial sea attaches to the Commonwealth as was asserted in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. At the same time the High Court has said that the States have power to pass laws for the peace, order and good government of the States which operate beyond low water mark and therefore in the territorial sea and perhaps beyond, depending on whether they are for the peace, order and good government of the State. The attitude of the Australian Government, of course, has been that the High Court decision has determined the question of sovereignty in relation to the offshore areas. The honourable member's question seeks an expression of opinion. I am prepared to indicate that I have taken the view that, although there may be some doubt as to the validity of the State Acts, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act of the Commonwealth remains valid and that permits that are granted pursuant to it by State Ministers- who are the designated authority under that Act- are valid. I simply express that point of view. Those permits and licences relate only to petroleum. Obviously they do not relate to other minerals. There is no Commonwealth law in relation to them. That matter depends on the validity of the mines legislation of the various States which would authorise the grant of licences or permits offshore. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill does not evoke the same colourful language or anecdote as did the Bill just introduced by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  The purpose of this Bill is to amend a substantial number of Acts-sixty-six in all, involving some 270 individual amendments- so as to bring up to date references in the Acts to Ministers, departments and permanent heads and other officers. The substantial re-organisation of departments effected by this Government when it came to office in December made inappropriate many existing references and a great number were out of date due to re-organisations that took place during the Labor Government's period in office. While orders under section 19b of the Acts Interpretation Act have been made from time to time to 'translate' references to Ministers, departments and permanent heads, the statute book has become scattered with references that do not accurately state the present position. I am sure honourable members will agree that it is in the public interest that the statute law should, as far as practicable, show on its face the correct designations of Ministers, departments and officers. 
A comprehensive order under section 19b of the Acts Interpretation Act was made on 22 December 1975 to cover, so far as practicable, the changes that the Government desired to achieve and an amending order was made on 25 February. But there were references that could not be changed by such an order; for example, references to the Attorney-General in legislation like the Patents Act and the Commonwealth Police Act, the administration of which was transferred under the new administrative arrangements to other Ministers. The changes could not be made because the office of Attorney-General continued in existence and section 19b only authorises orders to change references where the office no longer exists or its name is changed. While section 19 of the Acts Interpretation Act enabled those other Ministers to exercise the relevant statutory powers, they have had to do so acting for and on behalf of the Attorney-General pending amendment of the relevant provisions of the particular Acts. The Schedule to the Bill includes such amendments. 
There were also other references where some doubts have been felt as to the effectiveness of the section 19b orders and in all the circumstances it was thought desirable, in bringing forward this legislation, to take the opportunity of bringing up to date all the references in Acts to Ministers, departments or officers that have become superseded by reason of changes in the structure of government. There are a few particular amendments to which I think specific mention might briefly be made. These are cases where the opportunity has been taken, with the concurrence of the departments concerned, to make some amendments which go a little further than the statute law revision and validation aspects with which the Bill is primarily concerned. 
Firstly, in relation to the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act, the Bill places the statutory powers conferred by the Act in the hands of the Minister for Primary Industry and the Secretary to his Department, rather than in that Minister and the Minister having responsibility for external Territories, as in the past. It is proposed, however, that Ministers administering Territories will be consulted in exercising those statutory powers in relation to the various Territories and delegations given to Territory officers where appropriate. A similar situation will exist in respect of the Fisheries Act as proposed to be amended by the Bill. 
Secondly, the opportunity has been taken to omit section 32 of the Science and Industry Research Act which would have merely required the Minister for Science to give his approval to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation exercising any power or function exclusively affecting Norfolk Island but after consultation with the Minister administering that Territory. The section is of little practical application and the Ministers concerned have agreed that the continuance of the section is unnecessary and that  ad hoc  consultation between Ministers will adequately achieve its objective. Extraneous references to the Territory of Papua New Guinea have also been removed from some provisions. Some other minor amendments of an up-dating nature have also been included. 
The opportunity has been taken where it could conveniently be done to change some specific references to a more general form so as to avoid the need for any future referential or legislative changes upon a change in the administration of the Act or in the designation of the Minister or other relevant office. I mention by way of example the changes in the Bankruptcy Act from the Attorney-General to 'the Minister', which will embrace the Minister for the time being administering the Act, whoever that might be. I also mention the changes in the National Health Act to substitute 'the Permanent Head' for 'the Director-General of Health'. Again, in the Patents Act, the administration of which has now passed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the provision made in section 129 of the Act for the vesting of rights in respect of certain inventions and patents in the AttorneyGeneral has been changed so that the rights will be vested in the Commonwealth, thus avoiding any need for change in the future should ministerial responsibility for the Act change. 
The amendments made by the legislation are expressed- with a few necessary exceptions- to have come into operation on 22 December 1975, the date of the section 19b order to which I have referred. This retrospectivity, while avoiding any possibility of challenge to anything done in reliance on that order, is expressed not to affect anything done that was lawful when it was done, for example, an action by a Minister acting for and on behalf of the Attorney-General in pursuance of section 19 of the Acts Interpretation Act, in cases where under the Bill the reference to the Attorney-General will have become a reference to some other Minister. 
Some corresponding 'cleaning up' will be necessary in respect of regulations and ordinances. These are in hand and will be proceeded with as soon as the present Bill is assented to. I am sure honourable members will agree that the amendments proposed to be made by the Bill are desirable. I hope that the House will give the Bill a speedy passage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
At the last meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General the matter which has been raised by the honourable member was referred to it, particularly the issue of property. That had been the subject of some investigation by, I think, the Queensland Law Reform Commission and the matter was referred back to it for further consideration. The other question of ex-nuptial children is more difficult from the point of view of this Parliament because it is really a question of power, and the honourable member has made that point. One way of dealing with this, as honourable members will be aware, is for State family courts to be established. If State family courts were set up they could deal with all law relevant to the family. I have in recent months again approached the States of New South Wales and Victoria with the view to ascertaining whether they will consider setting up State family courts I have had no recent reply, but if these courts were set up it would enable all relevant law to be dealt with in the one set of courts. If they are not set up the question the honourable member has raised will receive my attention. 
-I thank the honourable member for his interest in this area of the law and also for his perseverance in the matter. It so happens that today I have referred the question of inquiry into insurance contracts to the Law Reform Commission. This is an area of the law that developed at a time when there was a complete freedom of contract. There has tended to be a degree of inequality between the insurer and the insured. I do not subscribe to the view that there are grave abuses evident in this area. At the same time, however, it is an area that needs consideration. After consultation with the Treasurer, within whose responsibility this area falls in the Commonwealth sphere, I have decided to refer the matter to the Law Reform Commission. I will issue a statement later in the day to which will be annexed a copy of the terms of reference. The terms of reference will relate particularly to contracts of insurance. They will exclude contracts of marine insurance, third party insurance and workers compensation because those are matters which are the subject of specific contracts. The honourable member will be grateful to know that questions relating to other insurance contracts have been referred to the Law Reform Commission. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make amendments to the Family Law Act 1975. Honourable members will recall that a number of amendments were made to the Act by the Family Law Amendment Act 1 976, which was passed by Parliament in the last sittings. The main purpose of this much shorter Bill is to amend the Act to enable regulations to be made imposing court fees, as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in the Budget Speech. The fee to be imposed will be $60 payable on the filing of each application for divorce from 1 October. Under the Budget proposals, no fees will be payable in respect of any ancillary applications such as maintenance or custody applications. The Bill does not itself specify the amount of the fee. Clause 7 enables the fee to be prescribed by regulations. 
The Government decided to impose this fee in order to provide funds which will contribute to meeting the rising cost of legal aid. Some 80 per cent of Commonwealth funds appropriated for legal aid matters referred to private practitioners is in respect of matters arising under the Family Law Act. In this year's Budget, a total of $9.5m has been provided for payment to the private profession for legal aid. Approximately 80 per cent of this figure therefore will represent payments for family law legal aid. The increased expenditure allowed in this year's Budget for legal aid, other than Aboriginal legal aid, is $3.7m. The Government regards it as reasonable that applicants for dissolution who are able to do so should be required to pay a fee of $60. It is normal to pay a fee for being married, sometimes in excess of $30. Having in mind the facilities provided by the Family Court, a fee of  $60  is not regarded as excessive. The proposed amount of $60 is also in line with the amount of fees formerly imposed under the Matrimonial Causes Act when due allowance is made for price movements since they were abolished in 1973. The total expected to be derived from these fees is $2. 8m over a full year. This may be compared with $ 16.2m which is the total estimated Commonwealth expenditure on legal aid, other than Aboriginal legal aid, over the same period. It is anticipated that in the present financial year the total number of divorce applications will be 48,000. Because the fee is a once-only imposition, it is not expected that the comparative cost of collecting it will be large. 
The Bill includes a provision permitting the regulations to provide for exempting persons from paying the fee. I propose that the regulations will provide for automatic exemption from payment of the fee where a person produces written evidence that he or she is receiving legal aid for the divorce proceedings from a Commonwealth, State or Territory legal aid scheme. Registrars of courts will also have power to exempt payment where they are satisfied that it would impose hardship on an applicant. Honourable members will of course have the usual opportunity to scrutinise regulations made under the provisions of the Bill. In the case of applications filed in a State Family Court- at the moment only the Family Court of Western Australiathe Bill provides that the fees are to be. paid to :he State concerned. This has been done for administrative convenience, so that the fees collected will not constitute Commonwealth revenue aid, as such, have to be subject to Commonwealth Treasury and audit supervision. Negotiations are being undertaken with the Western . ustralian Government for adjustments to be mat e between the two governments to take account cf the receipt of this additional revenue by Western m Australia. 
The remaining provisions of the Bill are of a clarifying or formal nature. Recent litigation has thrown some doubt on the extent of the provision enabling a court, in special circumstances, to make a maintenance or custody order in respect of a chile who has been put into care under State welfare legislation. The Bill clarifies the relevant provision . At the request of Western Australia, the Bill will enable the Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral to delegate his power of intervention in proceedings to the Attorney-General of a State ha ling r. State Family Court. 
The proposed amendment to section 105 will facilitate ;he enforcement of court orders, particularly maintenance orders. This section enables any court to enforce an order made under the Act by any other court, but a prerequisite to the enforcement of an order is the registration of the order. A problem arises where a person is arrested in. say. Townsville, on a warrant issued in Sydney. The court in Townsville cannot deal with the matter until the order has been registered, and this may take some days. What is needed  sr.  a provision whereby a person arrested in Townsville can be released on bail pending the registration of the order. The amendment would enable the regulations to make a suitable provision. Honourable members will recognise th*.t the number and. complexity of the amendments contained in this Bill are not great, and I therefore ask them to give their early and speedy consideration to it. I commend the Bill to the House. debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen' ad.adjourned 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1976-77 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 7 September, on motion by  Mr Lynch:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr E.  G. Whitlam had moved by way of amendment: 
That all the words after "That" be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: "the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants, and 
) it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence". 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I announced on 15 January 1976 that I had begun a review of legal aid services in Australia. I have since had detailed discussions with State Attorneys-General to establish an independent Legal Aid Commission in each State and these discussions are continuing. The establishment of offices of the Australian Legal Aid Office has been deferred pending my review. The attention of the honourable member is drawn to my answer to Question No. 163  (Hansard,  19 May 1976, pages 2252-3) in which I said that the selection of locations for new legal aid offices and the opening of new legal aid offices will be matters for consideration within any new framework for the provision of legal aid that is established as a result of the review. I shall keep the honourable member's request in mind during my review of the provision of legal aid in Australia. 
-I think it ought to be clear that the role of the Federal Government in this matter is to get the Bartons extradited from Paraguay. Two Federal Governments have been attempting to do this over a period of 2 years now. Some time ago I detailed to the House the efforts which have been undertaken and which are still current in that country. The Bartons have not attempted to do a deal with this Government in relation to their return to Australia. I can assure the honourable member that no deal will be done with the Bartons. The proposal is that they be extradited according to law. I hope that will come about in due course. 
I have noticed those articles. I wish that the State Attorney-General, instead of talking to the Press, would talk to me because I could assist him with his problem. Last year this Parliament in passing the Family Law Bill put section 41 in the legislation. That section is there simply because we realised when we put the section in that this sort of a jumble would occur. I cannot understand why State Attorneys-General do not agree to set up State Family Courts. From the States' point of view it would be a tremendous deal because the Commonwealth would have to pay for the establishment and the maintenance of those courts. If those courts are set up all the Commonwealth law and the State law on the family can be administered in the one court. That is the principle. We cannot achieve that in the Federal area because of the lack of constitutional power. In the long term if the States do not agree to set up State Family Courts, in order to achieve this principle we may have to seek some reference from the States. However, there is a ready solution here for the State AttorneysGeneral to take up. I hope that  Mr Walker  takes it up. 
There are a number of conditions. One condition is that the judges in the Family Courts be appointed to the age of 65 years. I hazard a guess that probably no member of this Parliament is against a fixed retiring age forjudges in the Federal area. I just hazard a guess on that subject. All that the legislation in the Federal area requires is that the Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral has a right of veto. In enforcing section 41 I cannot direct what judge is to be appointed to a State Family Court. I simply have to approve of the appointment. This year 23 judges have been appointed to the Family Courts, and each of them, I believe, was a good appointment. I have had no criticism from any State AttorneyGeneral on that score. The other point that the New South Wales Attorney-General raises is that the Family Court judges cannot exercise all the jurisdiction; that jurisdiction has to be exercised by magistrates. Magistrates are exercising family law jurisdiction now in every State, and so far as I am concerned they can continue to exercise jurisdiction in that area. So the New South Wales Attorney-General has a ready solution, and that is to call in his secretary and start dictating a letter to me saying that he is prepared to negotiate to set up a State Family Court in New South Wales. I invite the State AttorneysGeneral in every other State to do likewise and as quickly as possible. 
There has been no procrastination on my part. I made it clear earlier this year that I would be discussing with the States the question of setting up legal aid commissions in every State. Those discussions have been going ahead and have proceeded to the point where at this stage my officers are discussing with various State Attorneys-General the basis upon which those legal aid commissions will be set up. The Australian Legal Aid Office will be absorbed into the commissions and the salaried officers will be absorbed into them, just as the Public Solicitor's Office and perhaps in some States the Public Defender's Office will also be absorbed. Because I have a more direct responsibility in the Territories, I have taken steps to try to overcome the problems that exist in the Territories due to the rush into this activity by the previous Government and the creation of complete misunderstanding with the legal profession. For instance, in the Australian Capital Territory the local legal profession is now assisting the Legal Aid Office with interviews with members of the public. Members of the profession go to the Office on a voluntary basis during the day for that purpose. A legal aid committee has also been established which has on it the Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office in the Australian Capital Territory as well as members of the legal profession. Those steps have been designed to harness the voluntary effort of the legal profession. I hope that the example will be followed in the Northern Territory, and indeed right around Australia. 
If one looks at this year's Budget one will find that the legal aid vote was increased by 23 per cent from $ 12.5m to $ 16.24m, which is a very large addition. Last financial year an amount of something like $5. 5m was paid to the legal profession for referral matters. It is estimated that this year the amount will be approximately $9.5m, which is a very substantial increase. The means test is constantly under review. I believe that it is basically consistent with giving assistance to those really in need, and I have asked my Department to bring any special cases to my attention. If such a case as the honourable gentleman has mentioned has occurred I will certainly look into it because if it is a case of real hardship it ought to be met. I would point out that anybody who goes into a Legal Aid Office does get advice, whatever his means. If that advice necessitates legal action, then of course the means test is applied. That means test has to be consistent with the commitment, and legal aid is being administered on that basis at the moment. 
The question of pirate cassettes coming into the country was recently discussed at a copyright seminar which was run by the Government in conjunction with the industry and copyright owner representatives. It brought together delegates from all over Asia. This question is a matter of grave concern to copyright owners. It is estimated that something like $60m a year is lost in retail sales due to these infringing pirate cassettes coming into the country. You can see that it is a very significant matter. Under the Copyright Act civil proceedings can be taken to prevent the importation or sale of infringing copies. Also criminal proceedings can be taken and have been taken. In some cases large numbers of cassettes have been forfeited. In July, I understand, there was a case in which some 18 000 cassettes were forfeited. I also understand that recently there were proceedings instituted in which something like 60 000 pirate cassettes are the subject of possible forfeiture. Therefore so far as the enforcement of the criminal proceedings is concerned, that is being done. At the same time, honourable members may be aware of civil proceedings being taken by recording companies and copyright owners to stop these sales. The question of whether the penalties are sufficient is a matter which my Department has under review at the moment. 
in reply- In answer to what the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has said, may I say that I am constantly keeping the Family Courts under surveillance. I use the word 'surveillance' because I have even been to the courts and sat at the back while cases have been heard so that I might observe how the Act is being administered by various judges- not to observe the judges themselves so much, but to see how the informality of the courts is working. The purpose in doing this was to ensure that what was intended in the legislation was taking place. In considering what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said about fees and the payment of fees and also what was said by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  in relation to family courts, it is necessary to bear in mind that these courts are basically informal. I am satisfied that by and large the judges are exercising their jurisdiction in the way in which it was intended to be exercised. 
The courts that have now been established on a more or less permanent basis- for instance those in South Australia and Parramatta- are courts which I would invite all honourable members to visit if they can to witness the degree of informality that is observable there. For instance, these courts have a child minding room where parents can leave their children while they are being counselled. The courts, of course, have facilities for counselling. The furnishings are of a contemporary nature. The surroundings are very pleasant. They are surroundings in which people would feel at home- I use the word 'home' advisedly- so that they may be able either to take counsel or alternatively to be dealt with in relation to these very personal affairs in a way which is calculated to arrive at conciliation and not bring them to the point of abuse as was often the case under the old procedure. 
There have been cases involving one of the judges in relation to the conduct of proceedings. As I am answering points raised by the honourable member for Lang I may as well mention this. This involves to some degree a question of principle- that is, the nature of the proceedings before the court. There is one school of thought which has been upheld by the High Court, namely, that Family Court proceedings are adversary proceedings. In other words, they are proceedings between the parties and the judge should not descend too far into the arena. The judge concerned has taken a different view, namely, that these are not adversary proceedings and that he is there to try to facilitate matters between the parties, that this entitles him on occasions not to be too troubled about the order of calling witnesses in accordance with the adversary system, or at times about hearing submissions from counsel. In other words, it is a system which is more akin to the inquisitorial system, I think, in civil law countries. It is designed, as he sees it, to lead to a more conciliatory method of dealing with the particular' problem confronting the Family Court. That was a disputed principle. I just want to say that it is not an attack on the personality or the quality of the judge. Of course the High Court has spoken and I would assume that the particular judge would take note of what the High Court has said. 
In relation to the fees aspect of the Bill which the Opposition has indicated it will oppose, may I say that it is not unusual to charge court fees, as I think the honourable member for KingsfordSmith will agree. These court fees, as has been properly pointed out, are not charged against people who are legally assisted or to those who suffer special hardship. They are charged to people who are able to afford them. Under the Matrimonial Causes Act fees were charged in the Supreme Court. In current terms the fees then charged were more that the $60 we are proposing to impose. Not only that, as I have already indicated, services are provided by the court- and very satisfactory services. There is no reason in principle why people should not make some contribution for the services provided. This year the cost of running the Family Courts will be something over $llm. These fees will return something like only $2. 8m. As far as the provision of legal aid is concerned, this $2.8m will help provide legal aid. The concept of using fees to help provide legal aid was adopted in the New South Wales Supreme Court. 
The whole idea of using court fees in this way is nothing new. It has been known before to the legal profession, to parliaments and to the administrators of courts. It is a means of enabling funds to be provided for legal aid and it is a good thing that people do make such a contribution. I have also indicated in the Parliament today that I am trying to get the legal profession to make a larger contribution to legal aid. As the honourable member for Braddon quite properly pointed out, $7.2m or 80 per cent of the estimated $9.5m that will be paid to the legal profession for legal aid services will relate to Family Court matters. That is no mean sum. It is a very large amount. No one can say that the Government's proposed appropriation for Family Law legal aid is in any way trifling. It is being provided and we will continue to provide it. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith wants us to expand the activities of the Australian Legal Aid Office. Obviously if one analysed the establishment of the Office in the time of the previous Government one would find that if I may say so, it would not be a matter for great pride. I have had some months of struggle to get this thing on the rails. I came in at a time when there was division between the Legal Aid Office and the legal profession. I believe that now there is complete understanding. I came in at a time when there was still some sense of misunderstanding between the States and the Commonwealth in relation to the activities of the Legal Aid Office. I believe now that that misunderstanding has been pushed aside and we are sitting down to the task of setting up these Legal Aid Commissions. They will prevent confusion. In New South Wales, for example, people will not have to worry about whether they go to the New South Wales Law Society, to the public solicitor, to the public defender or to the Australian Legal Aid Office. I ask honourable members to imagine the confusion that that must provide for a member of the public in New South Wales and in other States where this sad situation prevails. People will know that there is one Legal Aid Office. When they go to that office, their matter, whether it comes under State law or Federal law, can be looked at for the purposes of determining whether it is a matter for legal aid and whether the means test applies. The Legal Aid Commissions will be set up in co-operation between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments. The Federal Government will con.tiue to fund legal aid through the Legal Aid Commissions. Those funds will be very substantial. The Commonwealth Attorney-General will continue to have a close and definite interest in the working of those Commissions. Let it not be said that we are in effect trifling with legal aid. 
The honourable member for Kinsford-Smith also said something about State Family Courts. As he knows, and as I have reported to the Parliament, we are engaged in discussions with the States to set up these courts so that all law relating to the family can be dealt with in the one tribunal.  His  idea is to obtain a reference from the States. I am interested in getting a result now, not in 10 or 15 years time as I believe would be the case if I tried to get a reference from the States on this matter. If we are to have family law administered by one court, if matters such as arose from the case  Farrelly  v.  Farrelly  are to be dealt with, if matters such as property, apart from divorce, the custody of illegitimate children, applications for custody by in-laws of children of a marriage and applications for custody in relation to children who are only  de facto  children of a particular marriage- for instance, the child of one of the parties- are to be dealt with by the court the only way of doing it at the moment is by having State Family Courts. I am mildly optimistic that I will achieve this result. That will disappoint the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and the Opposition, perhaps, but I propose to proceed along this path until I realise that I cannot succeed. At that stage, I may be forced to the desperate act of having to ask the States to refer power to the Commonwealth. But may I say that I am not very sanguine of receiving it with the result that some time later I may have to go back to the States again and ask them again whether they will have State Family Courts. 
May I say also that State Family Courts avoid this problem of judges being appointed for life. At the moment, there are 23 judges appointed for life in the Family Court. I would hope that if the State Family Courts are set up, most of those judges would transfer to the State Family Courts in their State. I believe that that would happen. The State Family Court system would enable that to be done. The only thing that the State Attorneys-General put up against my idea is the proposition that in some way I am interfering in the appointment of their judges because under section 41 of the Family Law Act the Commonwealth Attorney-General has a right to veto. That is really no intrusion at all when we come to consider the fact that under the Family Law Act if a State Family Court is set up, the Commonwealth Government has to pay for the establishment and the maintenance of that court. Is it really very much to ask a State Attorney-General that he might say to the Commonwealth Attorney-General, 'Do you approve of so and so?' I apprehend that every judge who has been appointed so far would receive the imprimatur of the Attorney-General of the State in which he was appointed. I do not think that this would be a really troublesome point or that we would be finding it very difficult to find judges who were acceptable to exercise this jurisdiction. 
So I say to the House that the question of State Family Courts is well and truly in mind, as is the improvement and surveillance of those courts, together with the matter of legal aid. I would say to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that I think the Opposition's attitude on this question of fees is misguided. I do not think that it is anything more than an ideological approach to this matter. It does not hurt people to pay. The amount of $60 is not large. It will not prevent people from going to court. Indeed, it will be found that husbands and wives talk about costs and in any event, the amount will be paid by one or other or both of the parties. 
One other matter that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith mentioned was a report from Victoria on the court. If honourable members look at the Budget papers, they will see that approximately $4m is set aside, inter alia, for the enforcement of maintenance orders. The regulations that were prepared by Attorney-General Enderby and introduced last December created a situation in which it was impossible to have even a clerk of petty sessions to advise a person about the starting of proceedings for enforcement of a maintenance order. Honourable members will recall that earlier this year I removed that blockage by bringing in amended regulations. Since then from time to time there have been occasions when police or sheriffs have not enforced maintenance orders. As a result of those events, discussions have been taking place with the State Attorneys-General. There are discussions taking place in relation to Victoria at the moment. Those discussions are aimed at enabling sheriffs and bailiffs to be employed for the purpose of enforcing maintenance orders. Custody orders are enforced. Of course, some people, when they take out their custody orders, do not trouble to get a warrant. But if they go to the court and get a warrant under section 64 of the Family Law Act, I think they will find that the Commonwealth Police will execute the warrant. An experience of this was brought to my notice. I had to assist somebody over the weekend who was seeking to get the enforcement of a custody order in New South Wales which had been made in Queensland. That person had to go to a judge- pull him off a golf course, as it were, over the weekend- and get a warrant issued so that that order could be enforced. The Commonwealth Police were assisting in relation to that and that part of the enforcement is working. Basically, I am told that the enforcement of maintenance orders is working. Honourable members can be assured that the administration of the Act is receiving the daily attention of my Department and whenever problems arise they receive my attention. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also mentioned a lack of judges in the court in Victoria. I apprehend that he must be referring to Supreme Court judges because he referred to a defended case. If, as I think the honourable member said, it is a defended divorce case, it would not be in the Family Court. The Victorian 
Supreme Court no longer exercises jurisdiction in relation to family law matters except those that are remnants, as it were, from the previous period. Its jurisdiction under the Family Law Act was cut off on 1 June. So far as the Family Court in Victoria is concerned, at the moment that Court has, I think, 6 or 7 judges. I have in mind the appointment of further judges in the near future. Due to the heavy volume of work in Victoria earlier this year that Court does have an overload of work. I have to watch this point. I take the opportunity to tell honourable members that I also have to watch the point that the volume of applications for divorce does not fall and the Commonwealth is then left with an excess number of judges. That point has to be watched carefully because, as I said earlier, these judges, as honourable members well know, are appointed for life. Therefore I am watching those applications very carefully. I have to bring the judges on stream, as it were, with an appreciation of the likely continuation of this pressure on the Family Court. During some weeks in Victoria earlier this year- I think I referred honourable members to this matter previouslyapplications for divorce were running ahead of marriages. I think the average weekly marriage rate in Victoria was something like 580 and the divorce applications were up to 600. That shows that the rush on the court in Victoria was quite heavy earlier in the year. But we are watching that situation and, hopefully, when we get into new premises in the near future we will be able to accommodate further judges and any backlog that might be thought to be appearing now will disappear. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 6- by leave- taken together. 
The answer to the question is no. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Government's proposals for establishing State and Territory Legal Aid Commissions in conjunction with a Commonwealth monitoring and advisory Commission are the subject of continuing discussions between State AttorneysGeneral and me and between our officers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
What Ambassador Hargrove said is a matter of public record. Amongst other things he said 'we exchange information and we have a very open and a very good relationship*. 
It has been the policy and practice of successive Governments since Prime Minister Chifley not to disclose matters relating to security intelligence. 
-I was grateful for your earlier intervention,  Mr Speaker,  saying that I was not responsible for the statements of  Mr Wran.  However,  Mr Wran  recently made a statement which is quite untrue. He said: 
There is ... a Law Society scheme at 12 courts throughout New South Wales financed as a pilot scheme from Commonwealth legal aid grants. 
That is true. But  Mr Wran  then said:  . . these grants are expected to stop. 
That is untrue. Honourable members will know that Sim was set aside in the Budget this year for grants to the States. In 1974-75 something like $403,000 was provided to the State of New South Wales by the previous Government. Of that amount, $250,000 was set aside for a pilot duty scheme at about 12 courts throughout New South Wales. In the succeeding year-1975-76-an amount of $300,000-odd was provided to New South Wales. That amount was available to New South Wales to use for the purpose of the duty solicitor scheme. This year an amount of approximately the same order will be available to New South Wales. Apparently the New South Wales Government is attempting to introduce politics into legal aid. 
Government supporters- Shame! 
Shame ! Since becoming Attorney-General I have attempted constantly to come to an arrangement with all the States to set up legal aid commissions for the very purpose of making a system available to members of the public whereby they will be able to go into a legal aid office and have all their legal aid problems dealt with by the one office. In New South Wales there is a public defender, a public solicitor, a Law Society scheme and a number of separate legal aid schemes run by various law societies. On top of that we have the Austraiian Legal Aid Office. I believe there could be nothing more confusing to the public of New South Wales than to be confronted with that situation. 
My purpose, and the Government's purpose, is to rationalise that situation so that there is one legal aid commission and one legal aid office in New South Wales. In the Territories there is strong support for a legal aid commission and I am at the point of preparing an ordinance relating to legal aid to be introduced in each of the Territories. I was in Western Australia last week and the Western Australian Attorney-General is very interested in setting up a legal aid commission. I hope we will be able to come to terms with him in relation to this matter. South Australia is interested in a legal aid commission and so is Victoria. One hopes that soon the New South Wales Government will set about the task, not dealing with the question in a piecemeal way as it is doing and trying to bring the salaried system, as it were, into the courts; one hopes that that Government will rationalise the system so that the amount of money, State and Federal, available in this country for legal aid will be used in the most effective way. I again invite the New South Wales Attorney-General to sit down and write me a letter telling me that he is prepared to negotiate on setting up a legal aid commission for New South Wales. 
As I understand the honourable gentleman, he asks about a price fixing law relating to commodities. I do not understand that there has been any law in any State fixing prices relating to commodities in the plural- that is, a general price fixing law. If he is talking about a price fixing law relating to beer, and that is what he is talking about, needless to say I think that at the moment there is only a draft Bill- or perhaps, as an honourable member suggests, a Bill for draught beer- introduced in the Victorian Parliament. I have given consideration to whether that is or is not inconsistent with Federal legislation. The Trade Practices Act is one Act that may be considered as to whether there is inconsistency. Another Act that may be considered is the Prices Justification Act. The Prices Justification Act, as we know, purports to set a maximum price. The Victorian Bill seems to be aimed at setting a price which is really a minimum price. Of course, it could be that those 2 laws are inconsistent, but that is a very difficult question for me to deal with at the table in the House. However, it is a question that has exercised my mind. 
The fact is, of course, if one knows the figures- and I do not expect the honourable gentleman to know them- that the funds that are provided in New South Wales for legal aid in part come from the Federal Government, in part from the State Government coffers and in part from interest on the statutory deposit accounts when funds are available from this source. I think that if the honourable member knew the figures he would find that the amount that comes from New South Wales sources is not as much, but is not far below, the amount spent by the Commonwealth Government on legal aid in New South Wales. The cost of administration of the Public Defender's Office, the Public Solicitor's Office and the Law Society scheme adds up to an amount which is not far below the amount that the Commonwealth Government expends. 
The honourable gentleman is well aware that the establishment of legal aid offices which the previous Government had nominated to open up was held up temporarily on the basis that I was to discuss with the State of New South Wales and other States the question of setting up a legal aid commission. My attitude was that I did not want to pre-empt the adoption of new ideas on matters of legal aid. I thought that was a very proper approach to adopt. I repeat what I said yesterday: If New South Wales wishes to have a legal aid commission which will enable the expansion of legal aid services in New South Wales, the Premier or the Attorney-General have only to sit down at the desk and write a letter and discussions on the subject will be held very quickly. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament to an Agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and the Republic of Nauru that would allow appeals to be brought to the High Court from certain classes of decision of the Supreme Court of Nauru. The text of the Agreement is set out in the Schedule to the Bill. I will return later to a discussion of that text. Honourable members will recall that Nauru, formerly a Trust Territory administered by Australia for many years, gained its independence in 1968. Under the legislation that was in force in the former Trust Territory of Nauru an appeal lay to the High Court, by leave of that Court, from the judgments, orders and decrees of the then Court of Appeal. This Parliament, in the enactment of the Nauru Independence Act 1 967, made provision for the final moves of the Nauruan people to the adoption of their own constitution. In the course of negotiations that preceded the independence of Nauru, the Nauruan leaders expressed a wish that provision be made for appeals to the High Court from certain judgments of the Supreme Court of Nauru that was to be established under that constitution. 
The Government is happy to accede to the desire of the Nauruan leaders and so to enter into the arrangements necessary for a suitable scheme for appeals to the High Court. Accordingly the terms of the necessary Agreement were discussed in detail between officers of the 2 governments and the Agreement was finally made at Nauru on 6 September 1976. 1 submit this Bill in order that the Parliament may approve the Agreement. Other provisions of the Bill enable the terms of the Agreement to be carried into effect. 
The Bill represents a novel and significant step in that for the first time the High Court will function as a final court of appeal from the Supreme Court of another independent sovereign country. Generally newly emerging countries establish their own judicial institutions. In this case the Nauruan Government took, as I have explained, the initiative in seeking to have the High Court serve as the final appellate court of Nauru. We see that as an expression of confidence in the capacity and impartiality of the High Court. 
We have had, of course, to consider the source of constitutional power to enable the Parliament to enact the legislation and to confer the jurisdiction on the High Court. The High Court has held that it may have conferred on it appellate jurisdiction other than from the State courts, so long as there is a proper source of power for the Parliament to enact the legislation conferring the jurisdiction. A line of decisions has established that the High Court may hear appeals from Territory courts. The source of power to provide for appeals from Territory courts is to be found in Section 122 of the Constitution. These decisions were well summarised by  Mr Justice  Menzies, when, in the course of his judgment in  Capital T.V. and Appliances Pty Ltd  v.  Falconer,  124 CLR 59 1 , he said at page 604: 
Federal courts, including this Court 
That is to say, the High Court, can be given judicial duties beyond the matters set out in ss. 73 and 76 of the Constitution by reason of the exercise of legislative power outside Ch. III. This is established by the line of decisions which recognises that, by laws made under s. 122, this Court may be given jurisdiction to hear appeals from courts not being federal courts for the purposes of ss. 7 1 , 72 and 73 of the Constitution, and not being State courts. 
In the present case, I believe that the external affairs power provides a sufficient constitutional basis for the Bill. Reference might also be made to the power of the Parliament to make laws with respect to the relations of the Commonwealth with the islands of the Pacific. 
I turn now to the terms of the Bill. It is proposed that the Act would come into force on a date to be fixed by proclamation. That date must be a date earlier than the date on which the Agreement comes into force, for which, as I will explain later, the Agreement itself provides. Clause 4 expresses the approval of this Parliament to the Agreement. Later clauses provide for appeals to lie and applications for leave to be made to the High Court under the Agreement. The necessary jurisdiction is to be vested in the High Court in respect of those matters. The High Court will be empowered to make Rules of Court for procedure in matters coming to it from Nauru. At least 2 Justices of the Court will be required to sit on those matters. Necessary provisions are made as to the nature of the judgment that may be made on appeal and as to the manner in which, in a divided court, a question is to be decided. 
Clause 10 deals with the appearance of a party before the High Court, either personally or by a representative. That representative may be a legal practitioner of the High Court or of the supreme court of a State or Territory, or may be a barrister and solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nauru. If an appeal is made in a criminal matter by a person who is required to serve a sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of Nauru, that person cannot appear personally in the High Court. Honourable members will appreciate that in such a case a prisoner must remain within the control of the court that has imposed the sentence. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the Schedule to the Bill that sets out the text of the Agreement to which I have referred. The preamble notes the previous arrangements that formerly applied in regard to appeals to the High Court and the Nauruans' desire to maintain those arrangements. Article 1 sets out the nature of matters in which appeals are to lie to the High Court and is careful to allow appeals as of right against the specified classes of decisions of the Supreme Court when acting in its original jurisdiction. Leave to appeal is required only from decisions that have already come before that Court on appeal from another court. Under Article 2 appeals would not come before the High Court in matters that are appropriate for final decision in Nauru. 
The Agreement recognises, in Article 5, that the signatories will need to pay regard to constitutional and other requirements, such as the enactment of enabling legislation, before the Agreement can come into force. Accordingly commencement is deferred until an exchange of notes signifying that all those requirements have been met. Finally, Article 6 enables either country, on 90 days notice to the other, to terminate the Agreement. This Government recognises that the Nauruans may not wish to continue these special arrangements indefinitely and a convenient means of termination would be of assistance if ever that were to be so. 
I point out to honourable members that the Government has responded to the wishes of the Government of a small country whose welfare was formerly a special responsibility of Australia. We are happy to make available appeal facilities that will enable decisions in matters covered by the Agreement to be determined at the highest judicial level by a court of considerable standing and repute. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I should like to associate myself with the remarks that have been made. I think that everything which could be said about Ivor Greenwood has been said. Of course, he had a very long association with the law. He was Associate to  Sir Frank  Kitto and then to  Sir Owen  Dixon. From 1963 to 1968 he was Secretary of the Law Council. He became a Queen's Counsel in 1969 and Attorney-General in 1971. That was the period when I met him. If I may say so, there are many things which pass between the First and Second Law Officers which do not pass between other people. Confidences are shared, attitudes discussed, and people's personal problems in relation to matters such as the criminal law and the like are discussed. Attitudes to the law are discussed. During that period I came to know Ivor Greenwood very well. I came to admire him and his deep sense of principle. If there is anything that marks a man it is his integrity in the sense that he stands up for what he believes in, and Ivor Greenwood did just that. 
One of the things we did together was to write a paper on the rights of witnesses before parliamentary committees. That was an appropriate document for Ivor Greenwood to share in because in it much will be found about the rights of individuals. As we wrote that paper, something of the man came out in a very distinct sense. May I also say that during his period as AttorneyGeneral he had a very close relationship with his officers. It would be remiss of me if I did not speak about that very close relationship between the officers of his Department and himself. They all appreciated him, they all looked up to him, and if a Minister has that sort of respect from his Department that is all he can want. I share very personally in the remarks that have been made and in the deep sense of loss that we have all suffered today. 
It is a fact that I have been concerned about this matter. Since last April the honourable member for Balaclava has indicated to me a number of instances where various sects of this description have been involved in the lives of young people. There are of course organisations called the Children of God, the Moonies, the Bubba Free John Movement, Hare Krishna, and the Universal Brotherhood, and others. I have received numbers of complaints and I believe other members in the Parliament have received complaints that young people have been brainwashed, indoctrinated, and physically abused by these organisations. One complainant has said that a sect had used fasting, fatigue, tension and fear as inducements to its followers to stay in the organisation and if possible to contribute money to its leaders. It might be observed, of course, that some political parties do that. Quite seriously, this matter is of grave concern because of the widespread complaints. 
Obviously we are all concerned about the need to preserve freedom of religion. That is a very precious right that all Australians share, even though in a sense it is not enshrined in our Constitution. On the other hand there may be a point- this is the matter I have been concerned with- that under the guise of religious freedom and the exercise of religious rights young people are subjected to all sorts of things that brainwash and indoctrinate them in a way that is an intrusion into human rights. All I can say to the honourable gentleman is this: This week at the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General I will be raising the matter with a view to seeing whether there is anything that we as law officers can do to inquire into this matter and whether the law can intrude. It may be that we will come up with the answer that we cannot intrude. It is a matter that deserves consideration. 
In a sense this is an academic question. A couple of weeks ago the Australian Labor Party set up a committee and apparently that committee has said that there was nothing improper in a Justice of the High Court advising the Governor-General. However, the honourable member for Holt has been very persistent and he deserves an answer. All honourable members know that in 1914 there was a double dissolution and that in connection with it the Chief Justice of the day,  Sir Samuel  Griffith, advised the Governor-General. In effect, he said that the Governor-General had an independent discretion that he had to exercise. I want to recall a few instances with which honourable members would be familiar. I think we can say that the greatest Labor Judge of this century was  Mr Justice  Evatt. By the way, I think honourable members opposite would also agree that he was Labor's greatest Foreign Minister of this century. He was so impressed by the need not to advise about the reserve powers of the Crown when a justice of the court that he produced a book of 324 pages on the subject. In 1939  Mr Justice  Evatt, while still a Judge of the High Court, wrote an article for the  Canadian Bar Review  in which he said: 
So far as Australia is concerned, a long course of practice tends to negative the proposition that the Governor-General of the Commonwealth or the Governor of a State is a mere automaton in the hands of Ministers who have lost, or are about to lose, the supponof Parliament. 
Towards the end of this article he said- 
Speak up, I have not yet got to the real precedents. This is what he said at the end of that article: 
The fact that Lord Novar called in aid two 'outside', though very distinguished, authorities on constitutional practice illustrates the difficulties- 
It is a very short quotation and I have just one other. I will not be very long. He said: 
The fact that Lord Novar called in aid two 'outside', though very distinguished, authorities on constitutional practice illustrates the difficulties confronting a King's representative who is not himself expert in a very difficult topic. Because of the lack of certainty in these matters, Dominion Governors have frequently felt themselves at liberty to adopt a similar course. 
So there is another precedent from  Mr Justice  Evatt, a High Court Judge- a Labor Judge. That is not the end of the matter. If honourable members opposite will be silent- I want everybody to hear this next statement- I want to read from that august newspaper the  Age  at the time of the double dissolution in March 1 95 1. It stated: 
Senior Labor members admitted frankly they considered  Mr Menzies'  legislation providing for secret ballots for the election of trade union officials, and on strike action, had been rushed down for electioneering purposes. They were confident that on the present issue  Mr McKell  would be obliged to go beyond the usual practice of accepting his Ministry's advice and consult the Chief Justice of the High Court  (Sir John Latham)  whether the Senate's action on the bank bill provided legal grounds for a double dissolution. 
Now, who could want a better precedent than that. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

-I was going to ask for leave to table the document. May I table the document? 
-Could the document be incorporated in  Hansard! 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following table lists the names and addresses of private persons authorised as civil marriage celebrants in each State and Territory, together with the number of marriages recorded as having been solemnised by each celebrant up to 30 June 1976. 1 should emphasise that the figures are based on monthly returns supplied by the celebrants themselves. Figures for individual celebrants are not readily available from Registrar's records. 
I have assumed that the question does not refer to religious celebrants or State Officials. The honourable member might also care to refer to my reply to Question No. 634, which appeared in  Hansard on  4.6.76, page 3 103. 
-I have no doubt that I will be holding some discussions with some attorneys-general during the course of the meeting. The general question of legal aid commissions has passed beyond the stage where I am talking to the attorneys-general collectively. Discussions are under way with a number of attorneys-general. I have already indicated that in relation to New South Wales I am waiting for  Mr Walker  to reply to my suggestion that we might set up a legal aid commission in New South Wales. I am only too anxious to talk to him but he will not be there tomorrow. When he replies, we will get on with the job. Generally speaking, the question will not be raised as an agenda item, but I will want to talk to some of the Attorneys-General about the progress of arrangements in relation to legal aid commissions. 
When we came here tonight I thought we were going to have a constructive debate from the Opposition. I thought that members of the Opposition would have a look at the estimates. But still it came back to the old thing; they cannot get over 11 November last year. They still want to come back to it. Last week I quoted something about what was said in 1951 in respect of the double dissolution that took place then. Members of the Opposition had been complaining for weeks, indeed for months, about the Chief Justice giving advise to the GovernorGeneral. When it suited them in March 1 95 1 the Labor Party said that  Mr McKell,  as he then was, ought to seek the advice of the then Chief Justice,  Sir John  Latham. We know that in September 1970  Mr Whitlam  said that the Senate was going to reject the Budget. Of course, we know what happened last year. 
It is the same old story- this continuous coming back to the use of principle for the sake of expediency, and that is the history of the Labor Party. Look at these great men of principle! For instance, do honourable members know that some of these men of principle live in my electorate? They live in their penthouses in Darling Point and Paddington. These are the men who will not go out to the people whom they claim to serve. They get up in this Parliament and mouth principles. These are great principles, indeed, for them to mouth. Why do not those men go out and live amongst their people? Why do they not go out to Werriwa? Why do they not go out to Eastern Creek, or wherever it is, that  Mr Wran  serves? Why do they live in their penthouses at Darling Point and claim to be the ones who serve the people? It is time that these people were revealed; it is time that they were unmasked. 
The only reason this country was brought to the edge of chaos last November was that we did not have a statesman in our midst. We did not have a man who was prepared to keep the Crown out of politics. Let me just read to the Committee what a statesmen said about the independent discretion of the Crown. This is how a statesman acts. Churchill in 1944 said: 
This is one of the exceptional occasions when the Prerogative of the Crown comes into play and where in doubtful circumstances the Crown would refer to other advisers. It has been done on several occasions. I must make it absolutely clear that it does not rest with the Government of the day. It would be most improper on my pan to use any language which suggested that I have the power to make such a decision. 
He was talking there about a decision for a dissolution of Parliament. Let me take a man from the other side of politics in England. I refer to Clement Attlee, another great statesman and a man who knew what was right. In 1952 Attlee wrote this: 
The monarch has the right to grant or refuse a Prime Minister's request for a dissolution of Parliament which involves a general election. This is a very real power. It means that there is always - 
I ask honourable members to listen to this- 
Someone other than a party leader who is available to take action in critical times. 
That was what happened on 1 1 November because the then Prime Minister had become so terribly irresponsible at that time that the Governor General had to dismiss him. Let not any one of us on either side of the House forget what happened on 16 November. If we want to test the irresponsibility of that Prime Minister I ask honourable members to think what happened on 16 November when the former Prime Minister tried to involve the great Labor Party in getting Iraqi money from overseas. Honourable members should think about that because it shows the level of desperation to which he had been driven at that time. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! It being 10.30 p.m. in accordance with the Order of the House of 18 February 1976 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
It is a matter of considerable regret that we had to have a division because it is not the Government's policy to interrupt the adjournment debate. I should have been well finished by this time had the matter gone on. It is very unfortunate that it has happened in this way. However, so be it. I can understand that honourable members opposite might not want to hear the answer to the vicious attack that was made earlier this evening. I wish to refer to what  Mr Justice  Evatt said about the discretion, because it is of tremendous importance. Undoubtedly  Mr Justice  Evatt was a very great judge of the High Court, and we know that subsequently he became Leader of the Opposition. He was at times AttorneyGeneral and Minister for Foreign Affairs. In 1939 he said about the 1914 incident:  . . Lord Novar undoubtedly accepted the rulings  of  Sir Samuel  Griffith and  Sir Harrison  Moore to the effect that, in relation to all applications for a single dissolution, the GovernorGeneral of the Commonwealth not only possesses a right, but is under a duty to come to an independent judgment having regard, first to the parliamentary situation, and then to all the surrounding circumstances. 
That was quite clearly  Mr Justice  Evatt 's opinion, writing while he was a judge of the High Court. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The honourable member for Grayndler will cease interjecting. He raised this subject earlier in the debate, as did other members of the Opposition. This has been a very open debate, and I believe that the AttorneyGeneral should be heard in relative silence, as were other honourable members. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  referred earlier tonight to phony legal opinions. The phony legal opinions which have been given in relation to this matter are those which have sought to uphold the attitude of the former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  That is where the phony legal opinions have come from. The good opinions have come out of the mouths of the great lawyers of this century, including  Mr Justice  Evatt. The important thing to note is that he stated this opinion while he was justice of the High Court. What a lot of cant it is, what a lot of humbug it is that a chief justice, like the present Chief Justice or  Sir Samuel  Griffith, should be attacked for giving advice on a matter like this while he was a justice of the High Court.  Mr Justice  Evatt wrote a complete book on the subject and that is the conclusion to which he came. Honourable members opposite ought to stop this nonsense and humbug about the matter because the basic situation is quite clear. The Governor General has a discretion. If one looks at the Constitution, it is made quite clear in the language that is used. The fact is that the GovernorGeneral exercised that discretion and, as I pointed out earlier, he had to exercise it because the Prime Minister of the day was not prepared to act in a responsible manner and keep the Crown out of politics. That is what it was all about. The .then Prime Minister was not prepared to act responsibly. 
The, honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has given up. He said: 'It is no use having a constitutional convention. We ought to rewrite the Constitution.' For goodness sake, what sort of Constitution would the Opposition come up with? It would abolish the States for a start. That is clear enough. It would abolish the Senate and it would put all power in one unitary parliament in Australia. Obviously, that is Labor philosophy. It was an impossible position ibr the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith to put forward. If I understood correctly an article I read recently, he said that there could be an Act of Parliament without the assent of the Senate. What nonsense it is if he did really say that. The Parliament consists of the Queen, the House of Representatives and the Senate. It says so in section 1 of the Constitution. It is elementary constitutional law. Before there can be an Act of Parliament, there must be the assent of the 3 elements. Of course, it is quite clear that at least four of the seven of the High Court Justices have said that the Senate has power to reject Supply. That is without doubt. This question is now past. Judicial opinion has been expressed and is quite clear. 
I proceed to deal with other subjects that were mentioned tonight because we do not want to be here until 12 o'clock. Much was said about legal aid. I can understand that last year the then Government needed some legal aid. Therefore, honourable members opposite should be very interested in the subject. They certainly needed good legal advice. Obviously, they did not get it from the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Government is not in the business of dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office. In the Budget this year, the amount provided for legal aid has been increased from approximately $12m to $ 16.2m. Is that the action of a government that is in the business of reducing legal aid? Is that dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office? I have said before in this place that when the Legal Aid Office was set up by former  Senator Murphy,  he placed officers of the Legal Aid Office in the empty spaces of a number of buildings around this country and said to them: 'Go ahead and dispense legal aid '. He put the officers in a situation in which there was a complete misunderstanding between them and the local legal profession. I am happy to say that in the past 9 months I have been able to get to the situation where there is complete sympathy and understanding between Legal Aid Offices that I now administer and the private legal profession in the various cities of the Commonwealth. That is because of the work that we have done. When I became Attorney-General, there was still a situation of complete mistrust between the Legal Aid Office, the salaried service, and the other elements of the profession. 
It is very interesting to see that the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has just entered the chamber. The question now arises about the reduction in the legal aid vote last year. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  alleged that the reduction in legal aid last year amounted to $2m. Obviously, he does not understand how the legal aid system works. That was not a reduction at all. It simply meant that bills were not put in for legal aid rendered by the private profession. Honourable members will forgive me for thinking that a person of the honourable member's intelligence probably understood that and was misrepresenting the position. It has been explained to him before. I hope he now understands it.  His  whole speech was a complete farrago of falsity and complete innuendo. He was misrepresenting the position in relation to legal aid in this country. At the moment I have detailed discussions under way with representatives from Western Australia, South Australia and Victoria and I am about to start discussions with representatives from Queensland and Tasmania in relation to the setting up of Legal Aid Commissions. I have explained to honourable members before that we have not been expanding the legal aid offices because we do not want to forgo the options that will be available to a Legal Aid Commission when it is established. 
I have mentioned already that a shocking situation exists in New South Wales. What is happening there at the moment? The Government of New South Wales, instead of sitting down with us and rationalising services, is going ahead to set up duty lawyers in about twenty or thirty centres around that State. What the State Government should be doing is to see what lawyers are available in the Legal Aid Office, in the Public Solicitors' Office and in the Public Defender's Office to see whether we can work out a rationalised system. I do not want to get into an antagonistic position with  Mr Walker,  the New 
South Wales AttorneyGeneral, on this subject because I do not believe that this is a subject which should be intensely political. I think that honourable members on both sides of the chamber accept the proposition that there should be a commitment to legal aid by the Federal Government as well as by the State governments. It is no answer whatsoever for honourable members opposite to say that the Federal Government should provide all the funds. It is a co-operative venture and the fact is that the Australian Legal Aid Office can dispense legal aid only in relation to federal matters. That is well known. There is a constitutional limitation. Of course, the fact also is that a court action was started last year in Victoria to prevent the Legal Aid Office from operating. One of the bases of that court action was to suggest that there were matters upon which the Office could not dispense legal aid. There is a constitutional problem. 
What we are seeking to do in our area is to combine the State function and the Federal functions through one instrumentality. One hopes that one can come to some amicable arrangement with attorneys like  Mr Walker  in New South Wales over these matters. Extra offices will not be set up in the immediate future pending  Mr Walker  giving some consideration to that matter. Some complaint has been made about the basis upon which we have conducted the Australian Legal Aid Office.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  may I say this: We are continuing the operations of the Australian Legal Aid Office and applying the same sort of principles that were established by the Labor Government in relation to the funding of the Office. There are 2 things in legal aid that are significant. First, there is the means test. The Labor Government introduced the means test last September. That was in force at the time we came to power. The Labor Government also arranged a commitment to legal aid on the basis of $lm a month. Those 2 things have been continued. It is a lot of nonsense for the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to rise in this chamber and say that we have in some way dismantled the Legal Aid Office or that we are not funding it on a proper basis. What we are doing quite clearly is continuing in exactly the same way what was done by the previous Labor Government. The Government is not dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office. I have found that there are extremely mischievous people on the other side of politics who are only too anxious to spread the rumour or the suggestion that we will abandon the Australian legal aid officers themselves. That is completely untrue. If any legal aid officers are listening tonight I want them to know that in the negotiations I am undertaking I am seeking to preserve the position of all salaried legal aid officers. So in the takeover by the States the situation clearly will be that those officers will be protected and will have at least the same conditions as they enjoy at the moment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that on 19 May 1976 a warrant was issued by the High Court Registry, Sydney, for  Mr Richard  Cobden to travel from Canberra to Sydney with  Mr J.  Mollison, Acting Director, Australian National Gallery, to attend and 
It is always difficult to answer a question when one does not recall the facts of the case. I assure the honourable member that if he draws a particular case to my attention I certainly shall give him and the House an answer relating to it. The question of parole is a matter that in the past has rested very much in the personal discretion of the Attorney-General when making recommendations to the Governor-General. Not on all occasions can one follow the view of the trial judge. I cannot precisely recall the particular case and therefore can say nothing at the moment. Sometimes one finds that, due to the conduct of the person concerned, there are risks in granting parole. The person concerned may not be a good parole prospect. On other occasions one may simply disagree with the view that the judge formed because one has other information. 
Referring to parole generally, since I became Attorney-General I have been concerned about the need for proper parole boards. A parole board has been established in the Australian Capital Territory and another one in the Northern Territory. I have been considering ways of ensuring that there will be proper parole facilities for other Commonwealth prisoners. If the honourable member lets me know the name of the person concerned I shall give him an answer. Indeed, if he thinks I should tell the House about it, although I am reluctant to talk about particular cases, I shall tell the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish a new federal court, to be known as the Federal Court of Australia. Proposals to create a new Federal Court have been under consideration now for many years. The case has been discussed in this Parliament, at legal conventions and elsewhere.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, when Attorney-General, had been authorised to proceed with the drafting of a Bill.  His  proposal was for a superior court that would have jurisdiction in matters of special federal concern. A Bill was introduced in 1968 by  Mr Justice  Bowen when he was AttorneyGeneral, but was not subsequently proceeded with. Bills to establish a superior court of Australia introduced by the Whitlam Government were rejected by the Senate. 
As the concept of a superior court was developed by the Labor Government from the original proposal by  Sir Garfield  Barwick, it was found to involve not only technical constitutional difficulties but it was opposed by some of the States and many members of the legal profession. As conceived by the Labor Government, it would have removed from State courts the bulk of the federal jurisdiction exercised by those courts and greatly weakened the status of those courts and the quality of the work dealt with by them. The Bill presented by the Labor Government was rejected by the then Opposition. 
Nevertheless there has remained a need for the existing federal court system to be put on a more rational basis. The Australian Industrial Court, created under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, has had added to it in piecemeal fashion jurisdiction in a diverse variety of matters. That Court is neither appropriately named nor structured to serve federal judicial administration in an adequate manner. As presently structured under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it is not really suitable for more general work. Unless a restructuring takes place, appointment to the Industrial Court must be based largely on experience in industrial matters, which is not directly relevant to the other important work of the Court in the trade practices and administrative law fields. 
The Federal Court of Bankruptcy has not, in practice, sat elsewhere than in New South Wales and Victoria. In the other States bankruptcy has been administered through the State courts. Because the judges of the Bankruptcy Court are in a separate court, they have not been available to sit on the Industrial Court in commercial-type matters under the Trade Practices Act. Nor would it have been appropriate for the Bankruptcy Court, so named and established under the Bankruptcy Act, to be given a wider jurisdiction. 
At the same time there is a need to relieve the High Court of some of the work-load it now has in matters of federal and Territory law. This need will be partly fulfilled by plans the Government has to ensure that State and Territory Supreme Courts will have exclusive original jurisdiction in some matters in respect of which jurisdiction has in the past been vested in the High Court. Specifically, what is intended is that the original jurisdiction the High Court now has under such laws as taxation and industrial property legislation should be taken from that Court and vested exclusively in State and Territory Supreme Courts. Since 1973, income tax appeals from the Commissioner of Taxation or the Board of Review have been vested in State Supreme Courts, but nothing was then done to remove from the High Court appeals of this kind under other taxation legislation. Separate legislation will be introduced for this purpose, and also to extend the jurisdiction of State and Territory Supreme  Courts in patents, trade mark, design and copyright matters. 
The Government believes that only where there are special policy or perhaps historical reasons for doing so should original federal jurisdiction be vested in a federal court. This has been so in relation to industrial matters, bankruptcy and trade practices. It is also appropriate that judicial review of administrative decisions by Commonwealth officers be vested in a federal court. 
Appeals from Territory Supreme Courts now lie directly to the High Court. Besides adding to the work of the High Court, this is often inconvenient and expensive for Territory residents. The residents of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are  entitled to have an appeal court that will sit locally and regularly in these Territories. Having regard to the expected work-load, the Government does not think it appropriate to create a system of internal appeals within each of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Supreme Courts at this stage. Needless to say, the course of constitutional development for the Northern Territory may eventually require that the Supreme Court of that Territory have its own internal system of appeals and the Government recognises this. 
If, as is appropriate, this jurisdiction is to be taken from the High Court, there is now no existing federal court that is really suitable to serve as an appellate court, either from the Territory Supreme Courts or from State courts exercising federal jurisdiction in matters of special federal concern such as taxation, bankruptcy, industrial property and trade practices. The Government therefore believes that the time is opportune to establish a new federal court that will meet the specific needs I have mentioned. The Court now proposed will not, as would previous Bills to establish a Superior Court that have been introduced into the Parliament, perform judicial functions that can better be performed by State courts or create jurisdictional problems of a kind that might delight constitutional lawyers but only add to the hazards of litigation for the parties concerned. The present BUI therefore differs from previous Bills relating to a Commonwealth superior court in that the original jurisdiction that is to be exercised by the proposed Federal 
Court of Australia will be limited initially to that now exercised by the Industrial Court and the Bankruptcy Court, instead of the much more extensive jurisdiction previously proposed, and secondly in that the court will serve as a court of appeal from State courts in certain matters of special federal jurisdiction as well as in Territory matters. The proposed Court would thus operate in well-defined fields of federal and Territory law. It would not enter any field of original jurisdiction now exercised by State courts. 
It will be implicit in what I have said so far, but I should make it clear, that the present Bill would in no way affect the functions of the Family Court of Australia. The Court will continue as a separate court, as at present. Further, the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory will be allowed to develop as separate courts exercising original jurisdiction in their respective Territories. The Bill contains, however, provisions to enable judges of the Territory Supreme Courts to sit in the new court on appeals from their own courts. This will ensure that the appellate work of the new Court in Territory matters can benefit from the particular experience and expertise of the Territory courts. 
I now turn to a discussion of the provisions of the Bill. The present Bill would establish the Federal Court of Australia. The Bill does not specify what original jurisdiction the Court is to have. The Court is intended to have the original jurisdiction now conferred on the Australian Industrial Court and the Federal Court of Bankruptcy. That is, it will have original jurisdiction under the Bankruptcy Act, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Trade Practices Act, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act and a number of other Acts. Separate legislation will be introduced to transfer this jurisdiction from the existing courts to the new Court. With regard to appellate jurisdiction, the full court of the Federal Court of Australia will have jurisdiction to hear appeals from single judges of the Court and from the Territory Supreme Courts by virtue of the present Bill. Clause 24 of the Bill also provides that the Court will have jurisdiction to hear and determine, in such cases as are provided by any other Act, appeals from State courts, other than the full courts of the Supreme Courts, exercising federal jurisdiction. Separate legislation will be introduced to provide for appeals from State courts to the Federal Court of Australia in taxation, industrial property, bankruptcy and trade practices matters. I should say here that it is intended that the State courts will continue in practice to exercise bankruptcy jurisdiction in 
States other than New South Wales and Victoria. It is only in these 2 States that the Federal Court of Bankruptcy has regularly sat in the past. 
The Court will sit in two Divisions, the General Division and the Industrial Division. All of the proceedings in the Court, whether original or appellate, will be in one or other of these two Divisions. A judge of the Court, other than the chief judge, may be assigned to only one Division of the Court by the Governor-General on his appointment. If so assigned, he may not sit in the other Division, except by virtue of special arrangements made by the chief judge in any particular case. However, with his consent, this assignment of a judge may be varied by the Governor-General at any time. The primary purpose of these proposals is that the special character of the industrial jurisdiction under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will be preserved and will be exercised in the Industrial Division of the Court. It will also enable judges to be selected specifically for the General Division of the Court and with regard to the appellate and original jurisdiction it is likely to exercise. The main provisions relating to the Divisions of the Court are to be found in clauses 13 and 14 of the Bill. 
Clause 5 of the Bill would establish the Court, to consist of the chief judge and other judges from time to time holding office. The judges are, in accordance with the Constitution, to be appointed by the Governor-General. The constitutional requirement, that a judge may be removed from office only by the GovernorGeneral on an address from both Houses of Parliament in the same session praying for his removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity, is contained in clause 6 of the Bill. The Court may be constituted either as a full court of at least three judges or by a single judge. At present, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides for the original industrial jurisdiction to be exercised by a bench of three judges except in certain specified matters. 
Clause 15 of the Bill would give the chief judge of the Court specific responsibility for arranging the business of the Court and, after appropriate consultation with the other judges, the judges who are to sit in any matter or class of matters. Provision is also to be made by that clause forjudges of the Court who are additional judges of the Territory Supreme Courts to be made available, by arrangement for the work of the Territory courts. Provision is also to be made for Territory judges who are also judges of the new Court to be made available, by arrangement, for work of the new Court. Sub-clause (3) of clause 15 makes it clear, however, that the primary responsibility of a Territory judge who is also appointed to the new Court is for the work of his own court. These inter-curial arrangements will be made between the chief judge of the new Court and the chief judge of the Territory court concerned. The Government has decided that there should be an office of chief judge in each of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Supreme Courts. Bills for this purpose will be introduced later in the present sittings of the Parliament. The role of the Territory judges in the appellate work of the new Court in hearing appeals from Territory Supreme Courts, to which I have previously referred, is recognised by clause 25 (2). This provides, in effect, that on an appeal from a Territory court the bench, where practicable, shall include at least one of the full-time judges of that court. 
Clauses 19 to 23 of the Bill deal with the original jurisdiction of the Court. Clause 19 provides that the Court has such original jurisdiction as is conferred on it by laws made by the Parliament from time to time. The clause indicates the intention that the Court is to have jurisdiction only in specified matters arising under laws made by the Parliament. Jurisdiction in other federal matters will remain with or be vested exclusively in State courts so far as the Constitution permits. For example, common law actions in contract or in tort by or against the Commonwealth and its authorities will continue to be a matter for State and Territory courts, except to the extent to which the High Court has and exercises original jurisdiction, which cannot be taken from it under the Constitution. The State and Territory courts are the courts of common law and general jurisdiction, and should deal with these matters in federal jurisdiction. I have already indicated the scope of the original jurisdiction that is to be conferred on the new Court. 
The appellate jurisdiction of the Court is dealt with in clauses 24 to 30. The intended scope of the appellate jurisdiction of the Court is indicated by clause 24. 1 have already discussed this clause. Specific provision is made in clause 26 for State and Territory courts from which an appeal lies to the Federal Court of Australia to state a case or to reserve a question of law to the Federal Court and to that Court alone. In those special matters of federal jurisdiction in which an appeal will lie from the State courts to the Federal Court of Australia, federal jurisdiction will not be vested in the full courts of the State Supreme Courts to hear appeals. The effect of these arrangements will be that, subject to the provision for appeals by special leave to the High Court from the full court of the new Court, the Federal Court of Australia will be the authoritative exponent of the law in the special federal matters and will thus ensure uniformity of interpretation of the law in important areas such as income tax and industrial property. It will be recalled that at present an appeal in income tax matters lies from State courts to the High Court. This will be taken away and given direct to the new Court. 
Clause 3 1 of the Bill gives to the Court a power to punish contempt of court. Where contempt relates to the exercise of jurisdiction in a Division of the Court, the jurisdiction to punish that contempt shall be exercised in that Division of the Court. Again, this is intended to preserve the special character of the jurisdiction exercised under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, by ensuring that all industrial matters are dealt with in the Industrial Division of the Court. Clause 32 of the Bill would confer on the new Court, so far as the Constitution permits, jurisdiction in matters that are associated with matters of federal jurisdiction before the Court. The intention is to confer jurisdiction on the Court in matters which, if they arose in isolation, might not be matters of federal jurisdiction but which, arising in association with a matter of federal jurisdiction, must be disposed of at the same time as that matter in order that the rights of the parties may be finally determined. 
There is to be no appeal from the full court of the new Court to the High Court otherwise than by special leave of the High Court. It might be noted that this provision for appeal to the High Court is more restricted than the provision for appeal from State Supreme Courts under the Judiciary Amendment Bill now before the House. The more restricted nature of the appeal to the High Court from the Federal Court of Australia is to emphasise the role that the new Court will have as the exponent of federal law in the special areas of jurisdiction vested in it. It is also a concession to the view that ultimately it may be necessary for this Parliament to provide that all appeals to the High Court shall be by special leave, whether from a federal court or a State court. 
Registries of the Federal Court of Australia are to be established in each State, in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. This geographical distribution is intended to reflect the nature of the Court as an itinerant court, that will go on circuit and sit in each State and Territory as required. The practice and procedure of the Court is to be regulated by the judges themselves by rules of court, subject to any special provision made by or under any Act. 
It is intended that the existing rules under the Bankruptcy Act, regulating the practice and procedure of both the Federal Court of Bankruptcy and of State courts exercising bankruptcy jurisdiction, will for the time being continue in operation. Likewise, the practice and procedure in the Industrial Division of the new Court will continue to be regulated by rules made under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Clauses 39 to 58 of the Bill deal with matters of a machinery nature. Provision is made for the Court to sit with a civil jury where it so orders. The Bankruptcy Court has power to sit with a jury, although this seems not to be done in practice. No provision is made in the Bill for criminal juries, because it is not intended that indictable offences will be prosecuted in the new Court. 
This Bill must be seen in the context of other measures the Government has taken or is already taking to reform the area of Federal jurisdiction. The Judiciary Amendment Bill now before the House, together with other measures yet to be introduced, will give to the State courts new jurisdiction in constitutional matters and in tax and industrial property. The role of the State Full Courts in common law and general jurisdiction in Federal matters will be enhanced. The Federal judiciary will, by this Bill, be better placed to handle the important areas of trade practices and administrative law, in addition to bankruptcy and industrial law. A comprehensive appellate structure for the Territories will be established. Uniformity of interpretation of major special areas of federal jurisdiction will be enhanced by the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia. The High Court itself will be better able to concentrate on its role as a constitutional court and the final appellate court in Australia. The High Court itself will be better able to concentrate on its role as a constitutional court and the final appellate court in Australia. These are important reforms, of which this Bill is an integral part. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 draw the honourable member's attention to my answer to Question No. 989  (Hansard,  9 September 1976, page 954). 
I am informed by my Department that the detailed breakdown of costs to date is as follows: 
I wish to make it clear that the commitment for this expenditure, including expenditure on supply of office machines and standard libraries, was entered into prior to II November 1975. 
-I thank the honourable member for his suggestion and also for his reference to the report of the Institute of Criminology. The report did not deal with the whole cost of crime. As we know this is a serious problem. I think that $960m represented only the direct cost, that is to say the direct loss that occurred through crime plus the cost of law and order and public safety. I think that the honourable member will agree that the Institue of Criminology does a very remarkable job in this area. The Institute was set up as a result of a decision, I think, of the McMahon Government and it came into operation during the period of the Labor Government. The Institute does considerable work in the criminological area with a view to dealing with the sort of question that the honourable member raises. I will draw the honourable member's question and suggestion to the attention of the Institute and my Department. 
-I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These Bills relate to the Federal Court of Australia Bill already before the House and deal with the exercise of federal judicial power and the structure of the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. These Bills will amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Bankruptcy Act, the Patents Act, the Trade Marks Act, the Income Tax Assessment Act, the Acts establishing the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory and a number of Acts that confer specific jurisdiction on the Australian Industrial Court. The amendments will give further legislative expression to the Government's plans to establish the new Federal Court of Australia, to confer additional federal jurisdiction on State Courts, to relieve the pressure on both the original and appellate jurisdiction of the High Court and to provide added status to the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Supreme Courts. 
In my second reading speech on the introduction of the Federal Court of Australia Bill, I explained that the intention is that that Court should take over the jurisdiction now being exercised by the Australian Industrial Court and the Federal Court of Bankruptcy. Accordingly, provision is being made by three of the Bills now being introduced for the transfer to the Federal Court of Australia of the jurisdiction at present exercised by those other two Courts and for their eventual abolition. The three Bills in question are the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3), the Bankruptcy Amendment Bill and the Federal Court of Australia (Consequential Provisions) Bill. From a date to be proclaimed, not being earlier than the date on which the Federal Court of Australia would commence to exercise its jurisdiction, all proceedings that may now be instituted in the Australian Industrial Court or in the Federal Court of Bankruptcy will be instituted in the new Court. Where there are pending proceedings in either of the two existing courts and the hearing of those proceedings has not commenced on the proclaimed date, those pending proceedings will be transferred into the Federal Court of Australia. Proceedings pending before the Australian Industrial Court or the Federal Court of Bankruptcy that are part heard on the proclaimed date will continue in those courts. Each of those two courts will continue in existence until a time when there are no judges left on the Court. The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) and the Bankruptcy Amendment Bill provide that, on the making of proclamations to that effect, the two courts will be abolished and any proceedings then pending in those courts will be transferred to the Federal Court of Australia. 
All proceedings under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Stevedoring Industry Act will be dealt with in the Industrial Division of the Federal Court of Australia. The Federal Court of Australia Bill provides forjudges to be assigned to the Industrial Division of the Court and that judges assigned to the General Division of that Court shall not take part in the exercise of jurisdiction in the Industrial Division, except in special circumstances by arrangement made by the Chief Judge of that Court. When exercising its jurisdiction under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Federal Court of Australia in its Industrial Division will, for the time being, be constituted in precisely the same way as the Australian Industrial Court is now required to be constituted. In those cases where the Australian Industrial Court is now required to be constituted by a single judge, the Federal Court of Australia will be constituted in its Industrial Division by a single judge. Where the Australian Industrial Court is now required to be constituted by three or more judges, the Federal Court of Australia in its Industrial Division will sit as a Full Court. Likewise, the provision as to appeals will remain unaltered for the present. In those cases where there is now no appeal from a decision of the 
Australian Industrial Court under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, there will be no appeal from a decision of the Federal Court of Australia. In other cases, where an appeal now lies from the Australian Industrial Court to the High Court by leave of the High Court, an appeal will lie from the Federal Court of Australia to the High Court. The special provisions as to appeals under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will override the provisions in the Federal Court of Australia Bill relating to appeals. 
It is intended that these provisions as to the number of judges that are required to sit and as to the limitation on appeals in industrial matters will be reconsidered after discussions with employee and employer organisations. Successive amendments of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have produced a number of anomalies. Further, the present provisions are wasteful of judicial resources in some respects. For example, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act requires 3 judges to sit on a prosecution for a breach of an award under section 1 19 of the Act. If the prosecution were brought in a state court, it would be dealt with by a magistrate. On the other hand, there are some matters of considerable importance to registered organisations or to individual members of organisations where there is no provision for appeal, even from a single judge. The only way of reviewing those decisions at present is by way of prerogative writ in the High Court. 
With regard to the exercise of jurisdiction under the Bankruptcy Act, the practice has been that the Federal Court of Bankruptcy has not sat regularly elsewhere than in New South Wales and Victoria. It is intended that the Federal Court of Australia will ordinarily exercise bankruptcy jurisdiction only in these 2 States and in the Austraiian Capital Territory. In the other States, bankruptcy jurisdiction will continue, for the time being, to be exercised by State courts and in the Northern Territory by the Northern Territory Supreme Court. 
As well as its industrial jurisdiction under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Stevedoring Industry Act, the Australian Industrial Court has jurisdiction under 10 other Acts. The most important area of general jurisdiction is its jurisdiction under the Trade Practices Act. The Federal Court of Australia (Consequential Provisions) Bill provides for the transfer of all of this jurisdiction to the Federal Court of Australia, other than cases part heard on the proclaimed day for the transfer of the jurisdiction. The transfer of the jurisdiction under the Trade Practices Act to the Federal Court of 
Australia does not, of course, pre-empt any decision that the Government might take on the recommendation of the Trade Practices Review Committee that State courts should be given concurrent jurisdiction in consumer protection matters. 
The High Court now has an extensive original jurisdiction in industrial property matters. Appeals from decisions of the Commissioner of Patents and the Registrar of Trade Marks lie directly to the High Court constituted by a single justice. Although State courts have jurisdiction to try actions for infringement of a patent or a registered trade mark, the revocation of a patent or the cancellation of registration of a trade mark on the ground of invalidity is a matter within the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Court. Thus, if, in an action for infringement of a patent in a State supreme court, a counter-claim is made for revocation of the patent the proceedings are automatically removed into the High Court. In addition, the High Court has exclusive jurisdiction under the Patents Act to extend the term of a patent or to grant a compulsory licence for the working of a patent. 
The Patents Amendment Bill and the Trade Marks Amendment Bill being introduced will vest this original jurisdiction in State supreme courts and in the supreme courts of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. The High Court will no longer have original jurisdiction in patents and trade mark matters, except to the extent that an action may be brought in the original jurisdiction of the High Court under section 75 of the Constitution. Jurisdiction thus conferred on the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory supreme courts under the Patents and Trade Marks Acts will be limited to those cases where the plaintiff is resident in the Territory concerned on the date on which the proceedings are instituted, or, being a corporation, has its principal place of business in that Territory on that date. 
The amendments to the Patents and Trade Marks Acts will also confer additional jurisdiction on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Appeals now lie from the Commissioner of Patents and the Registrar of Trade Marks to the High Court in a number of matters that are primarily administrative in character and which do not involve questions of patent or trade mark law. There is, for example, an appeal from the Commissioner of Patents to the High Court against a refusal of the Commissioner to grant an extension of time under the Patents Act. Jurisdiction in matters of this kind will not be transferred to State supreme courts, it being more appropriate for them to be dealt with by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
I would also mention that the Patents Amendment Bill and the Trade Marks Amendment Bill provide for proceedings to be transferred from one supreme court to another on the application of a party. This provision will enable a matter to be moved from one court to another if it turns out that the convenience of the parties would be better served by such a transfer. 
In introducing the Federal Court of Australia Bill, I said that it was the intention that the full court of that court should have appellate jurisdiction from State courts, other than the full courts of State supreme courts, in special areas of Federal jurisdiction. In fulfilment of that intention, provision is made in the Bills now being introduced for appeals to lie to the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia from State courts exercising bankruptcy jurisdiction, from State courts exercising jurisdiction under the Patents and Trade Marks Acts and from decisions of single judges of State supreme courts on appeals from a Taxation Board of Review and the Commissioner of Taxation under the Income Tax Assessment Act. These appeals will be exclusive of any right of appeal that might otherwise exist to the full court of the State supreme courts. Provision is, however, made for appeals by special leave of the High Court to lie direct to the High Court under the Income Tax Assessment Act and the Patents and Trade Marks Acts. Appeals from Territory supreme courts to the Federal Court of Australia are provided for in the Federal Court of Australia Bill. 
The High Court has original and appellate jurisdiction under a number of other Commonwealth Acts. Bills will be introduced in due course to amend these Acts to transfer the original jurisdiction of the High Court to State and Territory supreme courts and to provide, in appropriate cases, for -appeals to the Federal Court of Australia. In particular, the High Court still has original jurisdiction, concurrent with State and Territory supreme courts, to hear taxation appeals under the Estate Duty Assessment Act and the Gift Duty Assessment Act and exclusive jurisdiction in sales tax appeals. Where an appeal is taken under these Acts from the Commissioner or a Board of Review to a supreme court, there is a right of appeal to the High Court. These Acts will eventually be amended to bring them into conformity, as regards the jurisdiction of courts, with the Income Tax Assessment Act as it will be amended by the Bill now being introduced. 
Three other changes to be made by the Income Tax Assessment Amendment (Jurisdiction of Courts) Bill should be noted. Provision is to be made for a taxation appeal to be transferred from one supreme court to another on the application of a party. The High Court is to be divested of the original jurisdiction it now has to hear taxation prosecutions under the Income Tax Assessment Act. Original jurisdiction in these prosecutions will be confined to State and Territory courts. The amount of the penalty in issue that entitles a defendant in a taxation prosecution to elect for trial in a supreme court is to be increased from $200 to $500. 
I turn now to the changes to be made in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory supreme courts. The Government has decided that an office of chief judge should be established in each of these courts. Each of these courts now comprises 3 resident judges, together with additional judges appointed from the ranks of the judges of the Australian Industrial Court. In each case, the senior of the 3 resident judges has specific responsibility for arranging the business of the Court and, in fact, exercises many of the functions that the chief justice of a State supreme court would exercise. 
In addition, these courts will, as I have already said, have jurisdiction under the Patents and Trade Marks Acts, in matters in which original jurisdiction is now vested in the High Court, in respect of proceedings instituted by Territory residents or by companies having their principal place of business in a Territory. Further, the 2 Territory supreme courts will be given, ibr the first time, jurisdiction in taxation appeals under the Income Tax Assessment Act. This jurisdiction will likewise be limited to cases where the taxpayer concerned is a Territory resident or, if a company, has its principal place of business in a Territory. This change will be of great convenience to Territory residents, who have hitherto had to resort to a State supreme court to appeal from a board of review or the Commissioner in income tax matters. 
The Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill will also enable the appointment of a fourth resident judge of that Court. The investigation of Aboriginal land claims will, for some time, occupy much of the time of a judge of that Court. This makes it desirable to increase by one the number of judges who can be appointed in the Northern Territory for the work of the Court. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to effect a number of changes to the Acts Interpretation Act. This Act sets down general rules that are to apply, unless a contrary intention appears, to the interpretation of all Acts of Parliament and regulations and other instruments made under those Acts. It also confers certain powers of a general nature to facilitate the operation of other Acts. The main changes to be made by the Bill are to clarify certain matters as a result of the decision of the High Court in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act case and to facilitate future changes in the Administrative Arrangements Order. 
Clause 3 of the Bill replaces section 4 of the principal Act that empowers action to be taken in the period between the passing of an Act and its commencement so that the Act can have effective operations on the date it comes into force. There are doubts as to the effectiveness of the present section in relation to its operation in case of an amending Act, and it is desired to remove those doubts. Moreover, section 4 as it stands contains a proviso that instruments made under the power thus conferred do not become effective until the Act comes into operation, but there is no similar provision as to the effective date of other things that may be done under the power. It should be clear that all such action does not take effect before the date on which the Act comes into operation and the clause so provides. If it is necessary in a particular case for appointments, for instance, to be in force before the commencement of the relevant Act, that Act, not the Acts Interpretation Act, should provide specifically for that to be done. 
Clause 4 seeks to make it clear that Commonwealth Acts, existing and future, have effect in and in relation to the offshore area and to the outer edge of the territorial sea. This effect is to be subject to any contrary intention appearing in a particular Act. The need for the clause arises out of the decision of the High Court, in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act case, that the States end, generally speaking, at low water mark and do not include the territorial sea. The clause also makes it clear that Acts extending to an external territory have effect in and in relation to territorial sea of that territory. Nothing in the clause is  to limit  the operation of any Act before the amendment comes into force. 
Clause 5 rephrases the existing definitions of certain words. The extended definition of the word 'Minister' arises out of amendments made by clause 8 of the Bill. The new definition of  Gazette  reflects the decision of the Government to revert to the title of  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  that was in use over many years up to 1 July 1973. Clause 6 reflects a similar decision to change the title of the office of Government Printer. Clause 7 of the Bill inserts a new clause to provide that other parts of speech and grammatical forms of a word or phrase defined in an Act are to have corresponding meanings. 
Clause 8 is intended to provide a procedure to overcome difficulties in applying legislation as a consequence of changes in ministerial offices, in the names of departments and in the Administrative Arrangements Order. These difficulties exist where legislation contains references to specified Ministers, departments or permanent heads and these references do not accord with the changed administrative arrangements. The existing sections 19a and 19b have been found not to be adequate for this purpose in all cases that arise. Proposed new sections 19b and 19ba will empower the Governor-General to make orders to adapt those statutory references to the altered administrative arrangements. 1 refer particularly to the provisions in proposed new section 19ba, applicable when a function is transferred from one Minister to another without the designation of the former Minister being altered. In that case the Bill will require the tabling in the Parliament of any order that requires that the relevant references in Acts to the former Minister be applied to the latter. Either House may disallow the order, in the same way that regulations may now be disallowed. This procedure recognises that the effect of an order by the Governor-General would be to change the operation of an Act conferring functions on a specified Minister by transferring those functions to another Minister. The opportunity is given to the Parliament to insist on the continued application of its enactment in the form in which the Parliament passed the legislation. 
Proposed new section 19bb empowers the revocation of an order under sections 19b or 19ba. All orders made under proposed new sections 19b, 19ba and 19bb inserted by the clause are required to be published in the  Gazette.  Finally, clause 9 sets out a number of formal changes to be made to the principal Act in accordance with current drafting practices. 
I have referred to the function of the principal Act as providing a valuable aid in the construction and application of Acts generally and in shortening their length. The amendments proposed in this Bill will enhance that function. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume that the Honourable Member has in mind the recommendation in the Molomby Report that a cheque given by a consumer to a credit provider as security should b e made non-transferable. 
I am informed that this matter has been the subject of discussion in the Credit Laws Committee functioning under the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. I am also informed that several possibilities for achieving the protection desired by the Molomby Committee have been under consideration, but no decision has yet been made on them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that the Australian Legal Aid Office has given assistance to approximately 34 500 applicants under section 1 17 (4) of the  Family Law Act  1975 since the Act came into operation on 5 January 1976. 
Statistics of the types of family law proceedings and of applications refused are not available. 
MrK.A.Aickin,Q.C. (Question No. 1193) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My understanding is that before his appointment to the High Court  Mr Justice  Aickin held directorships in BHP Co. Ltd, Comalco Ltd, Mayne Nickless Ltd and P &amp; O Australia Ltd. My understanding also is that he resigned his directorships before his appointment to the Court. 
Justices of the High Court are not required to declare their financial interests. The invariable practice is that a Justice will disqualify himself from taking part in the hearing of any matter in which he has a pecuniary interest. 
Mirage Aircraft (Question 1199) 

 Mr Carrick asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the statements in the Report of the Auditor-General for 1 975-76 that in respect of Mirage aircraft there is a continuing failure to reconcile invoices covering supplies with items recorded as received in Australia. 
If so, what action does he intend to take to ensure that a similar discrepancy does not occur again. 
-I have seen the editorial in question. It is not accurate to say that this ordinance has been vetoed. I anticipate that it will pass into law in the next few days or perhaps during next week. The ordinance was prepared in draft form, I think, during the term of the previous Government. It was considered by me earlier this year. In July it went to the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory which suggested various amendments. I considered those and the ordinance was finally approved I understand in a form acceptable to the Assembly, I gather in October. The ordinance is broadly in conformity with a resolution passed in this House in October 1973. It will have the effect of decriminalising- I suppose that is the common word used these days- homosexual conduct between consenting adults in private. I think it is time we acknowledged that this conduct ought not be subject to the sanctions of the criminal law while, at the same time, not necessarily approving that conduct. This ordinance will have that effect. 
As honourable members are aware, for some months I have been attempting to get the New South Wales Attorney-General to agree to establish a legal aid commission in New South Wales. That is the policy of this Government, and I am hoping that that AttorneyGeneral is still sincere when he tells me that he is thinking about it. However, having seen the report, I am beginning to wonder whether he is because he consistently says that the Government wants to close the Australian Legal Aid Office and to opt out of legal aid. Statements in the report such as those which are attributed to State ministers are absolutely incorrect. The fact is that this year the Government has increased the appropriation for legal aid by some 25 per cent. I myself have given a personal commitment to the legal aid officers that in any attempt to set up a legal aid commission their position would be preserved. I have given that assurance to officers not only in New South Wales but in every State and Territory of the Commonwealth. At this very time officers of my Department are having close discussions with officers in Western Australia with a view to coming to an agreement in relation to setting up a legal aid commission in Western Australia. 
I have given some consideration to the question of having somebody inquire as to the activity in the Legal Aid Office in Sydney. Let me say this about it so that there will be no misunderstanding: First of all, honourable members will recall that the Legal Aid Office was set up by the previous Government by pushing Legal Aid Office lawyers onto empty floors of buildings in most cases, and they were told to go ahead and administer legal aid. When the ALAO was taken over by this Government it was in a state of confusion. In addition, in that period a great deal of misunderstanding existed between the private profession and the Legal Aid Office. The reason for that was that the previous Government did not bring the Office into force in a state of understanding. My approach and that of the Government has been to attempt to achieve that understanding. If there is an inquiry in relation to the Legal Aid Office in Sydney, the purpose of it will simply be to establish a working relationship between the Office and the private profession in New South Wales. If the Office is to be handed over to a legal aid commission set up by the 2 Governments it will be done in a way that will ensure that there is that understanding. 
Furthermore, I think it is important to understand that a legal aid office is rather like a large firm of solicitors. Activities and practices which are used in large firms of solicitors can be used in a legal aid office. If an inquiry is to be held, its purpose would simply be to report on the building of that relationship to which I referred and to indicate what sorts of procedures might be adopted, if any, to improve the efficiency of the Office. As to the man mentioned, may I say that  Mr Loxton  was the  President  of the Law Society of New South Wales. He was closely associated with establishing the Mount Druitt Legal Aid Office in Mount Druitt, Sydney. He was also associated with establishing the Law Society's legal aid scheme. I do not accept the criticism that has been made in relation to him, that is, that he is an opponent of the salaried service. I do not accept it at all. He is not such an opponent and his activity in relation to legal aid has shown that he has a real sympathy for setting up legal aid offices in places where people are disadvantaged. 
This matter was raised in the House some weeks ago. As I pointed out then, it does present us with a dilemma. On the one hand there is the clear right to religious freedom that is embedded to some extent in section 1 16 of our Constitution. On the other hand, I do not believe that any thinking person could fail to be appalled by the material that has been put before me as to the effects of certain religious sects on the lives of young people. I believe that the situation confronts us with a dilemma. We hear about cases of intense processes of indoctrination, brainwashing and restrictions upon personal freedom. We have heard about cases in which young people have handed over their assets to these organisations and have become disaffected. Perhaps it is the search by some of our young people for some new life style or an attitude of bewilderment with the society in which they are living which has caused them to do this. But at the same time, it has raised this very serious question. I think we need to ask whether the problem has ceased to be one of freedom of religion or rather is one of the protection of the young from skilfully organised people who are attempting to brainwash, indoctrinate and deprive people of property. 
I raised this question recently with the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General, but the reaction of the Attorneys-General was simply to note the matter. They were not prepared to take it up. I can only say that I shall keep it under consideration within my Department. It was a matter for review by the Attorney-General of New York. He had to give up also. However, may I say also that the law does provide, as the lawyers present will recall, in cases of undue influence upon those who have been affected by a religious experience or by an over-religious experience which has resulted in them giving away their property, that if they have done so in a relationship of influence on the part of those involved, they can go to court and claim a return of their property. At the moment, that is about the only law which provides some sort of an answer to this type of problem. 
-I have already received the advice. I think there were 3 matters referred to. Quite frankly, I have adopted the attitude, as the Leader of the Opposition knows, of not airing in public matters that affect individuals. I think that is a quite proper attitude to adopt. Two of the matters raised by the honourable gentleman, or I think by his former private secretary, were found on examination by the Crown Law officers to be not well grounded in law. The other matter was investigated and a decision has been made. Although there are some facts which would support a prosecution, it has been decided not to proceed with the matter because, in accordance with past practices, such a matter, with such a slight breach of the law involved, would not have been prosecuted. There seems to be no reason in this particular case to take any course different from the one that has been taken in other cases. 
WATER TANK AT POINT McLEAY 
It is a pity that I have to answer an honourable member from my side of the Parliament who has made a very strong attack on the judiciary. If I may say so with respect to him, it was an unfortunate attack because the judiciary, of course, cannot protect itself from such attacks, which have been traditional in the Parliament over the years since Federation. I can assure honourable members that judges, as a body of men, work hard. It is usually people who do not Understand the life of a judge who attack them. Mention was made- I thought it was a little unfortunate- of  Mr Justice  McTiernan who has just retired from the High Court of Australia. Quite frankly, I will not sit in the Parliament and hear a word said against  Sir Edward  McTiernan. I can speak from experience of the hard work that he did as a justice of the High Court over a period of 40 years, for 20 years of which I appeared constantly before him. I know something of the work that he put into the Court. I mention this because I would not sit here as the only one who can protect these gentlemen and not answer such an attack made on an individual. 
As to judicial salaries themselves, I think honourable members have to understand that those who go to the Bench normally go from very lucrative practices at the Bar. I have said in this House before that it is not uncommon for counsel in this country to be earning incomes running into 6 figures. When they go to the Bench they must give up quite a deal in terms of their yearly incomes. True, they receive the benefit of security and the status of a judge. But let it not be. thought that these are men who suddenly are working their way up the salary scale to achieve some ultimate objective of a high salary. In most casescertainly in cases in which people of quality are appointed- they are men who have to accept a substantial diminution in their yearly incomes. So judges' salaries are properly at the level at which they are. If we cannot pay people of capacity a salary which is sufficient to attract them, they will stay at the Bar. That is understandable. 
There is no ground really upon which a comparison can be made between a member of Parliament and a judge. They are 2 quite different occupations. Different demands are made upon them and there are different disciplines within which they work. I would not attack members of Parliament for not working hard. I know that they do work hard. I know that coming into this place week after week is like stepping on to a treadmill at 9 o'clock in the morning and being thrown off the treadmill at 12 o'clock at night. I do not think the members of the public realise what is involved in the politician's life. A judge's life is not made up of just sitting in court. It is made up of preparing judgments; of sitting in court; of undertaking research. In other words, many aspects of a judge's time are taken up outside court. Let it not be thought that because a judge is not sitting in court he is not working. Indeed, sitting in court for three to four days a week is a good sitting week for a judge. Those other periods- a day or a day and a half- are usually, and ought to be, taken up in preparing judgments, which need care and consideration. The life of a judge is not an easy one. It is a remote life. To some extent, it is like going into a seminary. The door is slammed behind him. When a person becomes a judge, there is not much more in his or her life, other than being a judge. Sometimes they come out, as was the case with  Dr Evatt.  But not many do so. So there is a sense of finality. A judge's life is something that needs to be understood. I cannot sit here and listen to the objections of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  without rising to my feet to answer them. 
The honourable member cited the number of members of the judiciary in Australia. Of course, it comprises a large number of magistrates. Magistrates are scattered around the Commonwealth, in remote places and in large cities. There is a large number of them. But the superior courts, by and large, consist of a small number of judges compared to the figure of 500 or 600 members of the judiciary mentioned by the honourable member for Griffith. The judges of the new court will number twenty, or thereabouts. They will be working hard as a peripatetic court moving around Australia. They will sit in the Territories- in Darwin and in Canberrathey will be moving from city to city. They will be truly working hard. To some extent they will be specialist judges sitting in the industrial division or in specialist matters such as taxation and industrial property. I was asked about appointments to the industrial division. I say to honourable members opposite that these are matters that will be discussed with individual judges and, as the Bill provides, some judges can be assigned to one division and some to another. However, the question of what division judges go to will be discussed with individual judges. 
The question of where they will go will be a matter of arrangement with the judges. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised the question of section 78 (B). It seems to me that that section is fairly clear and that it indicates that the Attorney-General has a discretion to pay the costs occasioned by a delay in a matter because notice had to be given. I do not think there is any uncertainty. It is very difficult to make provision for an order for costs. It is for the AttorneyGeneral of the day to exercise his discretion in a proper way and I imagine that is just what he will do. I do not propose to answer the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  in detail. He was not in the chamber in 1 974 but he seemed to want to spend his time by answering what was put to this Parliament then. If he reads what I said in 1974 he will find that the original jurisdiction of this court is basically the same as that which I thought then should appropriately be given to a Federal court. At page 600 of the  Hansard  of '24 July 1974 he will find a statement to that effect. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  raised the question of whether property should be the basis of the right of appeal and I have discussed this with the honourable member outside the chamber. To some extent I have sympathy with him but when this question was discussed by the Judiciary Act Review Committee as far back as 1969 the problem quickly arose of finding another basis. The only other that we could find then was to make all appeals subject to leave. However once one gets away from the traditional property matters and into questions in relation to criminal matters, and asks whether there should be a right to appeal in the case of a sentence, affecting the liberty of the subject or where a person who has a sentence of say 5 years but not one with a lesser sentence only by way of special leave, we immediately raise problems. A month in gaol to one person might be as significant as is 5 years in gaol to another. It is an extremely difficult matter in which to draw a line other than by proceeding in the traditional way or by providing for special leave to appeal. I would like to find a more satisfactory way but have not yet been able to do so. I did not find it in what was said by the honourable member for St George, but I take into account very seriously what he said. 
Perhaps I can leave anything else I have to say to the Committee stages. I would like to thank all those who have participated in this debate for the constructive way in which they have dealt with the matters raised in these important and significant Bills which in effect are reforming the Federal judiciary in this country. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Messages from the Governor-General recommending appropriations announced. 
Bill committed pro forma; progress reported. 
Perhaps I should explain, quickly, why I shall be moving the amendments I have circulated. This Bill was laid on the table for a few weeks. It was considered by the Law Council of Australia and by various Bar associations and it was circulated among judges. As a result or representations that were made, the Government decided to accede to certain amendments, and those are the amendments to which I refer. Very broadly, I think it can be said that they attempt to bring the Federal Court of Australia into line with the Supreme Courts of the States and Territories so far as appeals to the High Court are concerned. The Law Council of Australia took the view that, whereas the Bill provided that all appeals should be by special leave, it was appropriate that this Bill should give a right of appeal to the High Court from judgments of the Federal Court similar to that in respect of the Supreme Courts of the States and the Territories. It is for that reason that, for instance, amendment No. 9 is in the form circulated. 
I move: 
1 ) After clause 2, insert the following new clauses: "2a. Section 3a of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: ' 3  a.  This Act extends to all the Territories. '. "2B. Section 18 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words 'and any Judge of the Supreme Court of a State exercising federal jurisdiction'. "2c. Section 21 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (1) and substituting the following subsection: '( 1 ) Applications for leave or special leave to appeal to the High Court from a judgment of another court may be heard and determined by a single Justice or by a Full Court and the Rules of Court may provide for enabling such applications to be dealt with, subject to conditions prescribed by the Rules, without an oral hearing. ". ". 
As with the Federal Court of Australia Bill these amendments arise out of the fact that the Judiciary Amendment Bill was laid on the table for some months. We received a number of representations. These and other amendments flow from those representations. They are designed to take into account- as I think we should in this Parliament- the representations made by learned bodies such as the Law Council of Australia and the bar councils of Victoria and New South Wales. Also, of course, individual practitioners have written in. I am grateful for the way in which all those people have responded by making helpful suggestions which I think will result in a better piece of legislation than we had when we introduced the Bill in, I think, June last. 
The proposed new subsections comprise an amendment to which the Government is prepared to accede. I think it underlines the constitutional character of the High Court. Therefore it seems to us that it is appropriate that we agree to it. In the course of its administration it could conceivably lead to abuse by people inserting a ground challenging some section of an Act on the basis of it infringing the Constitution. I hope that will not happen. As I read the amendments, proposed new subsection (5b) is intended to enable the court to deal with such frivolous cases. So if anybody dares to put in additional grounds simply for the purpose of getting an appeal, as of right, they will be severely dealt with by the High Court. That is the basis upon which we agree to these amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (WentworthAttorneyGeneral) I seek leave to move amendments Nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 9a and 10 standing in my name, together. 
These amendments refer to clauses 8 and 10 and to the Schedule which read: 
Clause 8. 
Section 55b of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: "(4) A person who is, by virtue of this section, entitled to practise as a barrister or solicitor, or as both, in any federal court has a right of audience in any court of a State in relation to the exercise of federal jurisdiction by that court ". 
Clause 10. 
After Division 1 of Pan XI of the Principal Act the following Division is inserted: 
Division 1A- Provisions relating to Constitutional Matters '78a. (1) The Attorney-General of the Commonwealth may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, and the AttorneyGeneral of a State may, on behalf of the State, intervene in proceedings before the High Court or any other federal court of any court of a State or Territory, being proceedings that relate to a matter arising under the Constitution or in which a question of interpretation of the Constitution is involved or arises. "(2) Where the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth or of a State intervenes in proceedings in a court under this section, the cOurt may, in the proceedings, make such order as to costs against the Commonwealth or the State, as the case may be, as the court thinks fit. "78b. (1) Where a cause pending in a federal court other than the High Court or in a court of a State or Territory relates to a matter arising under the Constitution, or in a cause pending in any such court a question of interpretation of the Constitution is involved or arises, it is the duty of the court not to proceed in the cause unless and until the court is satisfied that notice of the cause, specifying the nature of the matter or question, has been given by a party to the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth and to the Attorney-General of each State and a reasonable time has elapsed since the giving of the notice for consideration by those Attorneys-General of the question of intervention in the proceedings or removal of the case to the High Court "(2) For the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ), a court in which a cause referred to in that sub-section is pending- 
may adjourn the proceedings in the cause for such time as it thinks necessary and may make such order as to costs in relation to such an adjournment as it thinks fit; and 
may direct a party to give notice in accordance with that sub-section. "(3) The Attorney-General may authorize the payment by the Commonwealth to a party of an amount in respect of costs arising out of the adjournment of a cause by reason of this section.". 
I seek leave to move all the amendments together. 
-This is contained in Schedule 4 and the amounts are there set out. So far as the new Court is concerned, those amounts will establish that the Court is intended to have Supreme Court status at least, and I say 'at least' advisedly. It should be borne in mind that at present the salary of the Chief Justice of New South Wales is approximately $52,000 and the salary of a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales is approximately $47,000. According to the Bill before the Committee, the salary of the Chief Justice of the High Court will be $52,500 and of a justice of the High Court other than the Chief Justice will be $47,500. Honourable members will see that High Court judges' salaries are not very much different from those of the judges of the Supreme Court of New South Wales and I think of the Supreme Court of Victoria. Those in other States are slightly below that amount. 
These amendments will fix the salary of the Chief Judge of the new Court at $46,000, with an allowance of $2,500, and the salary of judges at $42,000 with an allowance of $2,250. The Chief Judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern Territory will receive $40,500, with an allowance of $2,500, in respect of their offices. As I said, the amendments provide for those salaries and I hope that they will signify to the profession and to the public the intention of the Government that the new Court- the Federal Court of Australiashould be regarded as a court of a status which will attract those in the profession of the highest learning and repute. The Court will then be accepted in this country, as in a sense it must be, as a court to which litigants can go with great confidence. I hope that this Committee will applaud the appointment of the new Chief Judge when it is announced. 
May I say to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that these figures have been supplied by the Remuneration Tribunal on an informal basis. Therefore they do not come here as figures simply fixed by the Government. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Law Reform Commission for 1976. 
It is very unfortunate that the Opposition has moved to debate this matter of public importance because it is quite evident that it is attempting to create a situation of confusion to try to stop the Government from establishing an adequate and proper legal aid service in this country. I immediately give the he to dominance by the Department of the Treasury which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  suggested because this year the figure for legal aid in the Budget has increased from $ 12.5m to $ 16.24m. An increase of something like 25 per cent. If we were about the job of disestablishing the Australian Legal Aid Office we would not be increasing the budgetary figure; nor would we have introduced what might, on the face of it, be an unpopular provision, namely, the payment of a $60 fee per divorce application to the Family Law Court. The purpose of that fee was to enable some additional funds to be provided for legal aid. That type of measure was adopted previously in New South Wales and it was an adequate way of financing legal aid. Quite clearly the Government is not about the task of dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
This is a mischievous attempt on the part of the Opposition to create the impression that we are dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office. The record of the Australian Labor Party in this field can be looked at in terms of figures. For the year ended 30 June 1975 the number of matters committed to the legal profession was 20 326. For the year ended 30 June 1976 the number of matters so committed was 45 706. In that last year, 5 months represented the time when a Labor Government was in power. In the period from 1 July 1976 to 30 September 1976 the total number of matters committed by way of legal aid was 12 766, which is a rate of 51 000-odd a year. In other words, on average, matters were committed to the private profession at the rate of 5 1 000 per year in the first 3 months of this financial year. The fact is, of course, as the honourable gentleman knows, the Legal Aid Office has been maintained at the level of commitment fixed by his Government in September of last year. 
The referrals have continued and, as I have shown, they have continued at a rate which exceeds that of his Government. During the last 11 months of the Australian Labor Party Government the average number of personal interviews in the Australian Legal Aid Office was 1 1 693. In the first 6 months of this year the average number of monthly personal interviews in the Australian Legal Aid Office was 12 230. What is the honourable gentleman talking about when he speaks about the dismantling of the Australian Legal Aid Office? One can patently see that he is politicising this matter and trying to throw confusion into the staff and also to stop me in my endeavour on behalf of the Government to set up a proper system of legal aid in this country. Let us have a look at what has happened. From the beginning of my term as Attorney-General I have gone to the Legal Aid Office in every capital city in this country and sat down and talked with the staff. I have assured them of the fact that they will not be sold out, that adequate provision will be made to protect them under any system and I have given them the assurance that they should not be concerned. 
In that period, of course, we have had constant attempts by the Labor Party Opposition, both federally and in the States, to try to throw these poor people into confusion. These are the people who were thrown onto bare floors in offices in capital cities and told- this was in 1974- to administer legal aid. In Sydney and Melbourne the staffs were thrown onto large floors, without partitions, and told to administer legal aid. There was inadequate support staff. This is the record of the then Government which now, in Opposition, is attacking this Government in relation to legal aid. I ask: What else did that Government do? It created a state of complete mistrust between the salaried service and the private profession. As I have said in the House before, we in our turn have created bridges between the salaried service and the private legal profession. In the Australian Capital Territory, for instance, I have established a legal aid committee on which is represented, on an informal basis, the Director of the Legal Aid Office and representatives of the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory and the Bar Association of the Australian Capital Territory. 
What else has happened there? Members of the private profession are now attending the legal aid office in Canberra on a voluntary basis to give advice to members of the public. That is an initiative that I took. The other thing which that committee is doing from time to time is looking at matters which go to the private profession by way of referral. In other words, I am building bridges which were not there between the salaried officers and the private profession. In fact, those bridges were deliberately destroyed. Of course, the speech of  Mr Loxton  in 1975 which the honourable gentleman quoted is a reflection of the attitude which was left in the minds of the private profession. Let us be clear about legal aid. The Government for 2 reasons cannot through salaried officers provide legal aid in this country. First of all, no government can provide a bottomless pit for legal aid. That is quite clear. The other reason is that the day that we have legal aid provided through a salaried service alone will be the day when people are deprived of the independent legal profession and the lawyer of their choice. I do not know whether that is the philosophy of honourable gentlemen opposite but to me that seems to be their philosophy. 
My purpose in setting up a legal aid commission in every State would be to make sure that the legal profession had a substantial involvement, not for one moment so that it could be involved in a rip-off. As far as I am concerned, the legal profession has to make its contribution towards legal aid. A legal aid office should be the social service arm of all lawyers, not just of the private profession. It ought to be the place through which lawyers express their concern for the community. Because private lawyers must make a contribution I take the view that they should have a substantial involvement in the running of any legal aid commission. I am not asking any State Attorney-General to ensure that the State involvement be more than 50 per cent, 50 per cent or 40 per cent. I take the matter State by State or territory by territory. I shall attempt to arrive at that conclusion which is most likely to meet the needs and attitudes of people in a particular State. I have told this to the Law Council of Australia. 
I have also told the Law Council of Australia that I am not in the business of destroying the Australian Legal Aid Office and that in any arrangement with States' officers, those officers have to be looked after. If the States engage in any commission in an attempt to destroy the salaried service, as far as I am concerned I shall be moving my Government to withdraw funds from those commissions because I am not in the business of destroying the salaried service. They have established themselves in cities and towns as an organisation which can provide legal aid on a proper basis. One of the misfortunes of the previous Government was that it did not set up a salaried service on a proper basis. I have already indicated the way in which it did it. For instance, it did not give that service enough support staff. It left them to do administrative work. A lot of these people are disillusioned. They are wondering what the Legal Aid Office is all about because they are not doing full time legal work. 
I want to achieve a rationalisation of legal aid services through a State commission which is the only instrument we can have in which the effect will be that salaried officers will be doing legal work, not sitting down doing the work of a magnified clerk, working out whether the means test has been satisfied in a particular case. That is not work for lawyers. Yet that is the state in which I found the Legal Aid Office of this country. I have purposely left the Legal Aid Office in more or :ss the same form in which it was taken over so that the rationalisation of services could be undertaken in each State. I have referred before to the case in New South Wales, and it will be a disgrace if politicians cannot solve this problem. We have public defenders, public solicitors, the Law Society scheme and the Australian Legal Aid Office. How confusing that must be to members of the public. Imagine the premises that are involved, the overlap of staff that is involved. All I want to do is sit down with  Mr Walker  and work out a proper system. It has been said by the honourable gentleman opposite that I am refusing to negotiate with New South Wales. That is not correct; it is untrue. I have been trying to get to the table with  Mr Walker  ever since he came into office, as I was with his predecessor. I will be very happy to talk to him at any time.  Mr Walker  knows that, and I have had private discussions with him recently on the subject. When he is ready to talk I will be ready to talk, and we will get down to business. But one thing is going to be clear in those discussions; that is, that we are not going to destroy bridges but build them between the salaried office on the one hand and the legal profession on the other. 
Reference has been made to the fact that I have thought of engaging somebody like  Mr Loxton  to advise me in relation to the Legal Aid Office in Sydney. The purpose of that engagement, if it takes place- and no final decision has yet been made- would be, as I have made quite clear, to enable me to know, firstly, what steps can be taken to build further bridges between those 2 groups in New South Wales; secondly, because  Mr Loxton  is the senior partner of one of the largest private firms in Sydney, to see whether any administrative practices which a large private firm uses can be used in a legal aid office. If anything is wrong with that approach, just tell me what it is. Honourable members may criticise it if they will, but that is the sole purpose of it, and it will be done, if it is done, in a way which will not disrupt the Legal Aid Office in Sydney. The purpose of the exercise is to increase efficiency. 
So far as Western Australia is concerned, all that has happened is that a Bill has been introduced, and I am happy in principle with the terms of that Bill. I have an arrangement with the Western Australian Attorney-General that if any minor amendments are needed they will be made next year. But let us be clear about this. So far as the arrangement of detail is concernedthe taking over of the staff and the funding by the Commonwealth- that will be worked out between us in due course. Already quite detailed discussions have taken place, and I trust that finally an agreement will be reached which will put into practice the agreement we have already reached in principle. Let it be quite clear that that agreement in principle will adopt the salaried service of Western Australia, and assurances have been given to the salaried service there that it will be protected in any arrangement. 
The honourable gentleman asks whether the Australian Legal Aid Office will remain. Of course it will not remain as the Aus-  tralian Legal Aid Office, but that is because of his jingoism. He cannot stand by and see something which he created disappear in form. All that I am attempting to do, all that the Government is attempting to do, is to set up a legal aid system in which the legal aid officers who now perform salaried service work in the ALAO will in effect be part of the new commission. In due course they will administer the same form of legal aidfamily law legal aid, federal legal aid, legal aid to pensioners- which is presently being administered by them in Western Australia, but it will be done through a commission. There will be no confusion in Western Australia, and when South Australia agrees and when Tasmania and Victoria agree the same situation will apply. The ordinary citizen will be able to go into a legal aid office and say: 'I have a legal problem', and he will not be told: 'Sorry, this is a Federal legal aid office, you will have to go down to the State office', or 'This is a State matter, you will have to go for family law to the Federal legal aid office'. That day will be finished. 
The other thing we have been doing is ensuring that bodies like the Fitzroy Legal Service and the Tenants Advisory Service in Victoria have been helped. We have also involved the Australian Council of Social Services. 
in reply- To assist the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I would point out that the words 'coastal sea' are defined in proposed new section 15b (4) which is contained m clause 4 of the Bill. It states that the coastal sea in relation to Australia means the territorial sea of Australia; and the sea on the landward side of the territorial sea of Australia and not within the limits of a State or internal Territory'. The honourable member might recall the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. It distinguishes between the internal waters as at 1900 and those waters which would be described as internal waters for the purposes of international law- that is to say, for purposes of the convention- which would expand the internal waters as at 1900. In addition there would be the territorial sea beyond that, which would be drawn from the base lines of the territorial sea. 
Perhaps it is a complex question of both domestic and international law. It is intended that we draw this valid distinction which the Seas and Submerged Lands Act draws, namely, the distinction between internal waters which form part of a State because they are  inter-fauces terrae  The honourable member might recall that this means 'within the jaws of the land '. For instance, within a bay whose entrance is 6 miles or less the waters would have been regarded as internal waters as at 1900. But under the Law of the Sea Convention of 1958 you could get a situation where you could draw a closing line across a bay where, I think, the distance was up to 24 miles. The result would be that in international law you would have added to internal waters- those waters which fell within the bay at the point where it was 6 miles across- the waters within the bay where it was 24 miles across. The definition therefore had to take that situation into account. It had to take it into account obviously because insofar as it was outside the internal waters as at 1 900, it was internal waters for international legal purposes, and beyond those closing lines which were drawn it was territorial sea. We also know that the territorial sea, even though the width of it is still 3 miles under our view of the situation, now extends further than it did in 1900. 1 hope that attempt at explaining the matter for the honourable member is successful. 
-So far as Bass Strait is concerned, in Part II of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act of 1967-1973 he will find in sections 9 and 1 1 the application of laws and areas adjacent to States. So far as there are oil rigs in Bass Strait etc, I think he will find that those particular Acts in effect extended State law, albeit now to the extent to which the State laws are invalid in the continental shelf area, as Federal law. Of course under those provisions he will find a provision that gives to State courts jurisdiction to deal with breaches of law in that area. That jurisdiction, of course, would be federal jurisdiction. In other words, I think the honourable member will find that there is no omission in the present situation. There are other matters which need consideration and which are in the course of consideration such as offences at sea on ships. That is a matter which I have under consideration at the moment. So this law operates properly to extend Commonwealth law into the coastal sea as defined and to ensure that it operates in a way which is complete as it was thought to operate before the High Court found that the territorial sea was an area over which the Commonwealth has sovereignty. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Not as of right. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that there is no substantial delay in cases coming on for hearing in the High Court once they are ready for listing. In any event, the solution to any delays that might exist does not, in my opinion, lie in increasing the number of Justices of the High Court or making provision for the High Court to sit in 2 divisions. It is also doubtful whether the Court could validly sit in 2 divisions. The proper solution lies in relieving the High Court of some of its present appellate jurisdiction and, to the extent the Constitution permits, of much of its present original jurisdiction, to allow the Court to concentrate on its role as a constitutional court and as the final general court of appeal in Australia. Legislation is already before the Parliament to achieve these purposes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen a report of an interview with Colonel M. Kadhafi, the Libyan Head of State, appearing in the magazine  Newsweek  on 20 September 1976 in which Colonel Kadhafi is reported to have said that Libya is the only country in the world that applies Islamic law against terrorism. 
Assuming the truth of the report, Colonel Kadhafi is no doubt well aware of what he meant by the reference to Islamic law but I do not know what Colonel Kadhafi meant by the reference. 
There has been, I understand, what is called a letter of request filed in the Supreme Court of New South Wales which seeks evidence, including documents and oral evidence, from Australian companies which are interested in uranium mining. I think the request originates from a suit in a court in the United States. The honourable gentleman is quite correct when he says that this is regulated by some procedure of the New South Wales jurisdiction. I  think it is called the foreign tribunals evidence procedure. A procedure is laid down. This matter raises significant questions. For instance, there is the question as to whether in international law the United States anti-trust law does not travel too far because the anti-trust law of the United States not only extends to residents and corporations of the United States but also touches nonresidents. The serious question is raised by some people as to whether it does not go too far. Another question arises out of the fact that the Australian Government does have considerable power to fix, under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, the terms and conditions upon which uranium, if it were exported from this country, would be so exported. The matter of whether such evidence should be produced is under consideration at the moment. I will see whether the answers to the questions which the honourable member has placed on notice can be expedited if they are not already on the way. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In this Bill provision is made for Australian ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological- Biological- and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction. A copy of the convention is contained in the Schedule to the Bill. The Geneva Protocol of 1925-for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or other Gases and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare- to which Australia became a party on 22 January 1930, prohibits only the use in war of gases and biological methods of warfare. It does not prohibit the development, production, stockpiling, acquisition or retention of such biological weapons. 
The present Convention which is designed to fill this gap was the outcome of difficult and complex negotiations, the 26-nation Conference of the Committee on Disarmament in Geneva and in the United Nations General Assembly. Resolution 2826 (XXVI) of the United Nations General Assembly, commending the Convention to Governments, was co-sponsored by 40 countriesincluding Australia- and was adopted by 1 10- including Australia- to nil. The Convention which was opened for signature on 10 April 1972 has been signed by over 112 countries including Australia and so far 48 of these have ratified it. The Convention is now in force and the three depository States, the United States, the United Kingdom and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, are actively encouraging all signatory nations to proceed to ratification. 
The objective of the Convention is to eliminate biological weapons. The Convention marks a new and significant step in the field of disarmament as the first measure aimed at eliminating an entire class of weapons. It will not only prohibit the production of biological weapons but also will oblige States' parties to destroy any existing stocks. It should however be noted that the Convention and indeed the Bill now under consideration do not inhibit the use of bacteriologicalbiological agents and toxins for prophylactic protective or other peaceful purposes. 
The Convention is directed primarily towards the obligations of States, but each State which is a party to the Convention is obliged to take measures to prohibit and prevent persons apart from States from engaging in the activities forbidden by the Convention 'within the territories of such state, under its jurisdiction or under its control anywhere'. Since Australia at present has no statutory provision corresponding to that obligation, this Bill has been introduced to satisfy the requirements of the Convention. The main purposes of the Bill are to approve the ratification by Australia of the Convention as provided for in clause 7 and to implement the obligations that Australia will assume under the Convention. The Bill also provides for necessary procedures for forfeiture and seizure, and for expert analysis of any item or substance that may be subject to the provisions of the Bill. 
Article IV of the Convention provides that each State party shall take any measures necessary to prohibit and prevent the development, production, acquisition or retention of any of the items or substances referred to in Article I. As the English text of the Convention is set out in the Schedule to the Bill, I need not detail the provisions of Article I or indeed the other requirements of the Convention. It is, I think, sufficient to say that clause 8 of the Bill creates in Australia offences that give effect to Article IV of the Convention and provides penalties that take into account the grave nature of those offences. Clause 9 provides for the forfeiture and seizure of substances or articles developed in contravention of clause 8. Clause 10 contains necessary procedural provisions for the conduct of prosecutions for offences against the Act. All offences under the Act are made indictable offences and no proceedings are to be taken for an offence without the consent of the Attorney-General or his agent. 
Clause 1 1 ensures that State courts shall have jurisdiction with respect to these offences in accordance with the Judiciary Act 1903, but, except in the case of trials on indictment for offences committed in a State which, by section 80 of the Constitution, must be heard in the State where the offence is committed, this clause permits the State courts to exercise jurisdiction without regard to the limitations imposed by the Judiciary Act as to locality of the offence. Clause 12 of the Bill recognises the need, with respect to the type of offence to be created by this legislation, for specialist evidence as to the analysis and examination of substances. The Bill alone authorises the making of regulations specifying procedures to be followed in the storage and disposal of articles produced in contravention of the Act and in providing an opportunity for any person charged with an offence to have a sample of a substance for independent analysis. 
Honourable members should also note that the Bill is expressed to have a wide area of operation. It extends to every external territory, as well as to the States and internal territories, as dealt with in clause 4. It will apply to acts done by Australian citizens outside Australia and the external territories, as dealt with in clause S. Clause 6 provides that the Act binds the Crown in right of the Commonwealth or of a State. I will conclude by saying that this Bill represents Australia's participation in the first significant step by nations toward international disarmament and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a relatively short one. Its purpose is to enable the Government to make orders in situations in which they appear to be needed to ensure that documents in this country are not able to be produced to courts or tribunals in other countries. There are provisions to directly prevent this from being done and there are other provisions to prohibit persons in this country from taking any action which might lead indirectly to that result. 
The immediate need for this Bill has arisen out of certain legal proceedings that are being taken in the United States of America under the antitrust legislation of that country. The operation of the Bill, however, is not confined to matters arising out of those proceedings. The United States proceedings relate to arrangements alleged to have been made for the marketing of uranium in 1972. There are, in fact, several proceedings pending in relation to those arrangements. Claims are being made that the United States anti-trust laws have an operation outside the United States to an extent which is beyond what is generally conceded in international law and beyond what other countries are presently prepared to concede in relation to the pending proceedings. 
I shall indicate briefly the nature of the proceedings that have been instituted in the United States. First, there is a grand jury inquiry to establish a case for criminal prosecution of the parties alleged to have been involved in the marketing arrangements. Secondly, civil proceedings claiming treble damages- which could be of the order of some $7 billion- have been instituted by Westinghouse Electric Corporation against 29 United States and foreign uranium producers including 4 Australian companies. Thirdly, proceedings have been instituted against the Westinghouse Corporation by 16 United States utilities in respect of the non-supply of uranium under contracts entered into with Westinghouse, and Westinghouse is resisting those claims on grounds that involve allegations of contraventions of the anti-trust laws by the uranium producers. Finally, and perhaps for present purposes most urgently, letters of request have been issued to the Supreme Court of New South Wales in connection with the last mentioned proceedings. These letters of request seek the taking of evidence from persons in this country and relating to documents located here. 
In all of these proceedings, claims are being made that the anti-trust and related laws of the United States have an extremely wide operation outside the United States. Our own Trade Practices Act does, of course, apply extra-territorially where relevant conduct is engaged in by bodies corporate incorporated or carrying on business within Australia or by Australian citizens or persons ordinarily resident within Australia. But the claims that are being made for extra-territorial operation of the United States laws go further than this. They go so far as to assert that persons who are not United States nationals or residents or persons carrying on business in the United States are subject to those laws by reason only of some economic effect of their conduct. 
Claims of this kind have been made on previous occasions and have been resisted by other countries. In particular, such claims were resisted by the United Kingdom in 1964 in connection with an attempt by the United States authorities to regulate shipping between the 2 countries. Legislation was enacted to ensure that the United States claims would not be effective. I refer honourable members in this connection to the Shipping Contracts and Commercial Documents Act 1964. In connection with the present dispute concerning uranium, Canada has recently made a regulation indicating that it rejects the jurisdiction being asserted by the United States authorities as an unjustified invasion of its sovereignty. This is substantially the purpose of the Bill that I am now presenting. 
The provisions of the Bill are directed at the protection of documents that are located in this country and with the conduct, in certain circumstances, of persons who are Australian citizens or residents. The legislation will not operate in all circumstances but will depend upon orders being given by the Attorney-General. Clause 4 of the ill sets out the circumstances in which the 
Attorney-General may act. In short, the AttorneyGeneral will need to be satisfied that documents are being required by a foreign court or tribunal in breach of the principle of international law or comity or that the making of an order is necessary for the purpose of protecting the national interest. The Bill is not confined to documents or evidence relating to uranium, but the legislation will be available to be used whenever the need for it may arise in other contexts. It will be available also in relation to countries other than the United States. Orders may be made in respect of classes of persons and classes of documents. 
Insofar as the current United States proceedings relating to uranium are concerned, I can inform the House that I am satisfied there is a need to make orders under the proposed legislation and I will be taking actionin this regard as soon as the legislation has been passed. Any contravention of these orders would, of course, be viewed very seriously by the Government. 
As I have already indicated, this legislation has particular relevance to certain letters of request which may already have been made to the Supreme Court of New South Wales and there is, accordingly, a need for this legislation to be passed as a matter of urgency so that the necessary orders prohibiting the production of evidence to that court can be made and applied in those proceedings. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
-In reply-The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised a question about clause 4 (2). He was concerned about its effect on the validity of the Act. He put forward the official view of the Opposition. Clause 4(2) will not, in my view, affect the validity of the Bill when it becomes an Act. Clause 5 of the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Bill is sustained by the external affairs power. Clause 4 of the Bill is designed to direct the mind of the AttorneyGeneral to the basis upon which he ought to move under clause 5; that is to say, he should not move under clause 5 unless he is satisfied of one of two things. The first matter is that the foreign tribunal is exercising or proposing or likely to exercise powers etc. not consistent with international law or comity in proceedings relevant to matters to which the laws of the executive powers of the Commonwealth relate. 
-I ask the honourable member to wait just a moment. This particular matter relates to the actions of certain companies in. relation to uranium which may be exported. It also relates to people or companies which have no business or any residence in the United States. The view is that that goes beyond what is proper at international law. That is a principle to which I referred in an answer this morning. The other basis for this matter is that the national interest may, in certain circumstances, require that certain documents or evidence be not made available and may not be made available, not to an Australian tribunal but to a foreign tribunal. 
Clause 4(1)(b) so provides. The AttorneyGeneral has to be satisfied of either of those matters. Needless to say, clause 5 could operate and be valid without clause 4 being in the Bill because clause 5 is sustained, as I have already said, by the external affairs power. Clause 4 is designed merely to direct the mind of the Attorney-General in relation to these matters. It is important, where the national interest is involved, that the decision of, one hopes, a responsible Attorney-General in this matter will not be subject to challenge because questions about national interest are matters which are peculiarly for the executive to determine. Therefore, all that is being asked of the Parliament is that it commit to a responsible Attorney-General- one hopesthe discretion in this regard. That is the purpose of clause 4. 
Clause 4 (2) is a provision which goes as far as this Parliament could go to render the discretion of the Attorney-General not subject to challenge by a foreign government, a foreign tribunal or a foreign company. It is there to protect the decision. After all, the decision of the AttorneyGeneral of this country is in relation to a particular matter. This clause is not designed m some way to take away from the rights of Australians or Australian companies. It is a clause which is designed to protect Australia. That is what it is about, and I should have thought that it would have appealed to the sense of nationalism of the honourable member for Wills. I was suddenly troubled when I saw him get to his feet and start criticising this provision. I thought that for once he had lost his sense of nationalism. 
There is only one other matter with which I have to deal and that is a matter raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  relating to whether this Bill, when it becomes law, would have the effect of operating on a person who is taken on a plane at San Francisco, say, under a subpoena from a United States court. It would not, and the simple reason for that is that at international law we could not ourselves interfere with the jurisdiction of a United States court and one would not purport to do it directly within the jurisdiction. But we can affect what happens in Australia and we can affect what happens in the Supreme Court of New South Wales. In conclusion, I simply say that the reason for urgency, and I would not have brought this matter before the Parliament had I not been satisfied of the need for urgency, is that this Bill is needed to become law if it is to operate in Supreme Court proceedings which, as I understand it, could come on before this Parliament resumes on Tuesday week. I apologise to honourable members for the fact that time ordinarily given has not been given, but I ask them to bear with me and with the Government and to accept our assurances in this regard. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Honourable members will recall that on 5 October - 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Criminology Research Act 1971 I present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Criminology for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Legislative Drafting Institute Act 1974 I present the Annual Report of the Legislative Drafting Institute for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I do not think it appropriate to make public information about particular applicants for legal aid who are entitled to expect that information supplied would be kept confidential. I would, however, be prepared to make it available to the member, if he wishes, on a confidential basis. I can, however, supply the following information: 
I am informed that three applications for fiancial assistance were approved prior to 1 1 November 1975 to enable the applicants to appear before the Trade Practices Commission on the hearing of applications for authorisation under section 88 of the Trade Practices Act of exclusive dealing agreements. 
I am informed that applications for financial assistance were approved after 1 1 November 1 975 in respect of the following matters: 
To enable the applicant to appear before the Trade Practices Commission on the hearing of an application for authorisation under section 88 of restraint of trade agreements relating to the accreditation of advertising agencies. 
To enable the applicant to appear before the Trade Practices Commission on the hearing of an application under section 88 of exclusive dealing arrangements limiting borrowers' choice of insurance companies for insuring the mortgaged property. 
To three applciants to enable them to defend prosecutions instituted by the Trade Practices Commission for an alleged contravention of the restraint of trade provisions (section 45) of the Act 
To three applicants to enable them to appeal to the High Court of Australia against a ruling of the Australian Industrial Court on the question of the onus of proof under section 45 (2) of the Act 
To enable the applicant to institute an action against a company for damages arising from the termination of a dealership agreement that it is alleged contravened sections 45 and 46 of the Trade Practices Act. 
To enable the applicant to institute an action for damages against a company following the termination of a franchise agreement. 
To enable the applicant to defend an action for damages for alleged breach of section 46 ( 1 ) (a) and (c) and section 48 of the Act. 
To enable the applicant to institute an action for damages arising from alleged breaches of sections 45 and 46 of the Act. 
To two applicants to enable them to institute an action against a company arising from an alleged breach of sub-sections 47 (3) and (4) of the Act. 
) To enable the applicant to institute an action for damages against three companies arising from alleged breaches of section 52 of the Act. 
I am informed that no applications for financial assistance were refused prior to 11 November 1975. Applications for financial assistance were, I am informed, refused after 11 November 1 975 in respect of the following matters: 
To enable the applicant to defend a prosecution by the Trade Practices Commission for an alleged breach of the restraint of trade provision (section 45) of the Act. 
To enable the applicant to appear before the Trade Practices Commisiion on the hearing of applications for authorisation under section 88 of the Trade Practices Act of exclusive dealing agreements. 
To enable the applicant to institute an action for damages for alleged breaches of the restraint of trade provision (section 45) and the exclusive dealing provision (section 47 ) of the Act. 
To enable the applicant to institute an action for damages against a company for alleged misleading and deceptive conduct (section 52(1)) and false representation (section 53(a)(0). 
To cover the costs of the applicant at the public hearing of its application for authorisation under section 88 of the Trade Practices Act of exclusive dealing agreements. 
f) To cover the costs of an application to the Trade Practices Commission for authorisation or clearance of a mutually exclusive merger proposal between the applicant and another company for the control of a third company. 
To cover the applicant's costs to be incurred in appearing before the Trade Practices Commission on the hearing of applications for authorisation under section 88 of the Act. 
-I thank the honourable member for giving me the opportunity to refer again to this matter. When I was answering the question yesterday about this matter I did hear  sotto voce  something by the Leader of the Opposition but it was not until I received the greens that I discovered what it was that he had said. It was crossed out in the greens, but he did say: 'It would not wash in Japan'. Had I heard that comment at the time I would have said something about it because to me that suggests that the 
Solicitor-General, an officer of my Department, and I were engaged in some whitewash in this matter. I want to assure the House that if there is one thing that has to remain independent, it is the Law Officer's function in this House. It should not be tarnished in any way whatsoever. The documents to which I referred yesterday represented all the material that had come before what I understand is the Church committee and had been sent on to the Department of Justice in the United States of America. Those documents have been looked at since by myself, the Solicitor-General and a senior officer of my Department. 
As the honourable gentleman well knows the agreement under which this information is provided says that all such information made available by the parties pursuant to these procedures and all correspondence between the parties relating to such information and to the implementation of these procedures shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed to third parties or to government agencies having no law enforcement responsibilities. I have no intention of revealing to this House the contents of those documents. I want to make it clear that those documents represent all the material that was before the Church committee. The Minister for Transport made a statement in this House in May last. He had gone through a series of files relating to this matter. The Leader of the Opposition had the opportunity while he was Prime Minister of this country and while I was Solicitor-General to have this matter investigated. 
-So far as I know and so far as he knows no such attempt was made. What has happened here is that the Leader of the Opposition is going back to his colours, in the way that he cannot resist. He cannot resist the temptation to use his tongue to destroy other people, innocent people. In this case there is not a taint against the late  Senator Paltridge  or his family or against any other Minister of the Crown or anybody. Why don 't you give up? 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The amendments that have been made by the Senate are Government amendments. Broadly, they do 2 things. Firstly they will insert a new section after proposed section 19B a in order to put beyond doubt the application of section 1 9ba to a case where a department is abolished and a department with the same, name is established, as in the present case in relation to the Department of the Treasury. There is doubt whether section 1 9ba as it appears in the Bill would cover such a situation. Secondly some amendments will be made to the Audit Act and to consequential provisions concerning references to persons and things in other laws which have been found necessary as a result of the announced reorganisation of the Department of the Treasury involving the substitution of 2 departments- the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance- for the existing Department. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The purpose of the amendment made to the Ombudsman Bill 1976 by the Senate is to ensure that the Ombudsman is not able to investigate action taken by officers of the staff of the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory. The Bill already provides that actions taken by officers of the departments associated with this Parliament are not to be subject to investigation by the Ombudsman. This is because the Government sees these departments as outside the ordinary course of government administration. They are, of course, responsible to one or both of the Presiding Officers of the Parliament and not to a Minister. The amendment made by the Senate is consistent with that existing provision and is acceptable to the Government. 
I am satisfied that the amendment is intended only to take out of the scope of the ombudsman's considerations actions by persons employed as members of the staff of the Legislative Assembly which would be the equivalent of actions taken by the staff of this Parliament, either of the House of Representatives or of the Senate. It is not intended to exclude any actions that they may undertake of an administrative character. Of course, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  will be well aware, the Legislative Assembly is established as a form of parliamentary institution and it has privileges, etc., which it enforces and maintains just as this House maintains them. This amendment is simply to put the staff of that body in the same position as staff of the Senate or of the House of 
Representatives. I should not think there would be any problem. Should any problem arise, should the legislation be interpreted as so wide that it enables those officers to do more than what is described in the amendment to encompass administrative action, then that is a matter which would receive early consideration by the Government. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-I think I have previously referred to this matter in the House. I indicated that I would take the matter to the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. I think I have since indicated that the Committee was not of a mind to take up the matter. A further matter that I have indicated is that the question will be kept under review by me to see whether any protection can be given to young people particularly who are taken by advantage in relation to this sort of activity. I have already indicated that a delicate question is involved as to the religious freedom that to some extent is enshrined in our Constitution. Therefore, any government would have to be very careful, when introducing legislation in this area, to ensure that religious freedom was not tampered with. To that extent I must agree with the honourable member that any government that is thinking of moving in this area needs to be very cautious. On the other hand, one cannot overlook the fact that many parents in this country are continuously concerned about their young. I simply regard it as a matter that we, as administrators and legislators, ought to keep under review. At the moment there is no intention on my part to recommend any specific provisions to amend the law in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory in this regard. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make certain amendments to the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976. The House will recall that this Act was passed as a matter of urgency on 18 November 1976 because proceedings were then pending in the Supreme Court of New South Wales to take evidence for the purpose of proceedings in a court of the United States of America. In the course of the debate in this chamber and in another place, attention was directed to some aspects of the Bill which appeared to deserve further consideration. At the time there was a need for the Bill to be passed into law without delay, but in the other place my colleague,  Senator Durack,  indicated with my approval that the Government would give close consideration as soon as possible to the matters that had been raised and introduce an amending Bill to correct any deficiencies. 
The Government has now been able to give the matter further consideration and has concluded that the amendments provided for in the present Bill are desirable. The principal change provided for in the Bill is the abolition of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act. This subsection provides that the validity of an order of the Attorney-General is not to be subject to challenge in any court. The argument has been advanced that provisions of this kind are not generally desirable and should be confined to those situations where they are really necessary. In the context of the present Bill the Government has concluded that this provision is not strictly necessary and its repeal is accordingly provided for by the present Bill. The Government has concluded moreover that the Parliament should be able to disallow an order made by the 
Attorney-General in the same way as it would be able to act if the orders were made by regulation. The Bill accordingly provides for an order to be tabled and to be subject to disallowance by either House in accordance with the procedure under the Acts Interpretation Act which applies to regulations. 
There are 2 grounds provided in section 4 upon which the Attorney-General may act in making an order under section 5. One is that a foreign tribunal is exercising jurisdiction in a manner that is contrary to international law or comity; the other is that an order is desirable to protect the national interest. Logically, an order made on the first of these grounds should be confined in its operation to the particular foreign tribunal that is breaching international law or comity. As this is not the position under the existing Act the Bill provides for it to be so. Different considerations apply, of course, where an order is made on the ground of national interest. In such a case it is appropriate that the order should apply to all foreign tribunals and not be confined to any particular tribunal. That is now the position under the Act. 
Another matter that was the subject of comment when the legislation was being debated by the Senate related to the definition of a foreign tribunal. Doubts were raised as to whether this definition might cover the Privy Council. In view of those doubts the Bill provides for an express provision to make the position clear. Under this provision 'foreign tribunal' is not to include the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the exercise of jurisdiction in respect of appeals from any court in Australia. Two other amendments to ensure the legal effectiveness of the legislation are proposed. One avoids a distinction under the existing Act between an order that has been served and one that has been deemed to be served. The other provides that where a person is prohibited from making evidence available to a tribunal in Australia, the tribunal is not to be able to require a person to act in contravention of the order. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will provide machinery to protect the large number of historic shipwrecks and relics on the continental shelf of Australia. It also provides controls for the recovery of such wrecks and relics and for their disposition. In particular, the Bill makes provision for the protection of the old Dutch shipwrecks and relics covered by the 1972 agreement between the Australian and Netherlands Governments. Under this agreement the Commonwealth has accepted responsibilities in relation to the Dutch East India Company vessels that were wrecked on or off the coast of Western Australia. There is at present no specific Commonwealth legislation on historic shipwrecks, although some control is possible under the Navigation Act. Western Australia does have legislation, but the validity of this legislation has been contested before the High Court. The decision which may resolve the matter is awaited. The Government believes that the Commonwealth has the necessary constitutional powers to legislate in this area and considers that it should introduce appropriate Commonwealth legislation into the Parliament during the current sittings. Should the relevant High Court judgment be handed down in the meantime, the Bill will be reviewed in the light of that judgment. 
I am sure that all Australians will agree that there is an urgent need for effective legislation in this field. The Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections has pointed out that a wealth of historical material lies beneath the waters off the Australian coast. More than 500 shipwrecks have already been located and identified, and about 1500 more ships are known to have been wrecked around the coastline. These ships are an important part of Australia 's heritage and a vital part of its history. Many were involved in the early exploration of this region. They reflect European man's early contact with Australia. Many were involved in the carriage of migrants to this land. Many were involved in the vital cargo trade that was first Australia's lifeline and later essential to its growth and ultimate prosperity. For the historian their contents provide valuable guidance to the habits and customs of the period. For every Australian they are a reminder of the courage, initiative and skill of our pioneer sailors. 
The Government shares the Pigott Committee's view that these shipwrecks must be protectedfrom acts of outright vandalism, from indiscriminate looting, from impetuous souveniring and accidental damage or destruction. Already future research in marine archaeology has been severely impaired because of the many shipwrecks which have been damaged, by accident or design, in the last 2 decades. I am sure most of those who take part in the increasingly popular sport of diving in search of shipwrecks are aware of the need to respect and preserve these memories of our past. But there have been cases when shipwrecks of immense historical interest have been wantonly destroyed. In other cases well meaning souvenir hunters have been unaware that, following exposure to seawater, metals become unstable and require expensive and lengthy conservation treatment. As a result, !&gt;eople acting in the best of faith have deprived future generations of relics of great historical value. I stress that the Government is particularly appreciative of the major role being played by Western Australia in preserving that part of Australia's history represented by shipwrecks lying off the Western Australian coast. The Western Australian Museum, through its Fremantle Branch and associated conservation laboratory, leads Australia in marine archaeology and the preservation of historic shipwrecks. 
A principal purpose of the Bill is to provide for the continuance on a sound legal basis of the existing high level of co-operation between Commonwealth agencies and such State institutions as the Western Australian Museum. The Bill therefore contains provisions that will allow agreements to be entered into between the Commonwealth and the States relating to implementation and enforcement of the legislation. These include provisions enabling the Minister to delegate his powers for these and other purposes. Such agreements would enable States to continue and expand their efforts to preserve Australia's maritime heritage under secure national legislation. At the same time, the Commonwealth will be able to act in the national interest when this becomes necessary. 
I turn now to the main provisions of the Bill. Under the Bill, the Minister for Administrative Services is authorised to declare as historic shipwrecks or historic articles the remains of ships or items from them that are of historic significance. These then become subject to the protective provisions of the Bill. Under these provisions persons finding or having possession of such items are required to notify the Minister. The Minister is then empowered to give directions as to how the items are to be dealt with, and he may also issue permits for the exploration or recovery of shipwrecks and relics subject to such conditions as are considered appropriate. The area surrounding a declared wreck or article may be declared a protected zone and this will permit controls to be applied to any activity that may occur in the area. 
In its report, the Pigott Committee pointed out that any legislative action should be accompanied by compilation of detailed wreck records. The Government endorses this suggestion. As a result, the Bill provides that a register, to be known as the Register of Historic Shipwrecks, will be maintained. This register will be open to public inspection. I believe all Australians will welcome this move to protect, preserve and record important aspects of Australia's early days. Maintenance of the register will not only assist in preserving these shipwrecks, it should also provide a valuable guide to those who wish to see, but not interfere with, the relics of our past for themselves. 
I would point out that one of the major aims of this legislation is the preservation of our links with our past history. As I mentioned previously, perhaps fewer than one-quarter of the known wrecks have been located. While protecting these wrecks, the Government is also anxious to ensure that exploration and discovery is not inhibited or prevented. Even on a recreational basis, the process of exploration is a costly one. As well, many of these vessels contain valuable cargo. To reduce temptation while at the same time encouraging exploration, the Bill provides for the payment of a reward for the discovery of hitherto unlocated historic shipwrecks. The amount of the reward will not be contained in the legislation, but will be determined from time to time, according to the relative money values of the day and the importance of the discovery. The aim of this reward provision is to encourage exploration and discovery without offering incentives to pillaging. By way of illustration, the money value of the coins found on the Dutch shipwrecks off the Western Australian coast amount to many hundreds of thousands of dollars. It would be unfair and unreal to deny totally any prospective discoverer some reward for his effort. 
Dutch shipwrecks, which are mentioned in the 1972 agreement between the Netherlands and Australia concerning old Dutch shipwrecks, are automatically brought within the protective provisions of the Bill without the need for prior declaration by the Minister. The agreement and a list of known such vessels and their locations are presented in schedules to the Bill. Further shipwrecks will be placed on the register as appropriate. I wish to express my thanks to the Western Australian authorities for the advice that has been given to the Commonwealth while this legislation has been under preparation. This has ensured that difficulties that might otherwise have arisen have been avoided and that legislation able to meet the needs of the States has been produced. 
Before concluding I wish to foreshadow 3 amendments I propose to move to the Bill that arise from points made during the debate on the Bill in another place and from further consideration of the Bill by the Government. The first relates to clause 9 of the Bill. It has been suggested that, as the clause stands, a person who, quite innocently and legally, has in his possession an article that comes within the protection of the legislation may be prosecuted for failing to notify the Minister that he has that article, despite the fact that he did not know that the article is, in fact, a protected one. My colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  has considered this matter and has agreed that it would be reasonable to provide a defence to a charge brought in such circumstances, and an amendment to achieve this will be moved at the appropriate time. 
The second matter relates to clause 17 of the Bill. Sub-clause (2) of that clause sets up a defence for a person who fails to give the required notice with regard to the discovery of a wreck. It makes it a defence against a prosecution if the person charged can prove that someone else has given the necessary notice. It has been suggested that it should also be a defence if a person has reasonable grounds for believing that the necessary notice has already been given. The Minister for Administrative Services has also accepted this point and an amendment to cover it will be moved at a later stage. 
Finally, the Government has given further consideration to the terms of clause 23 of the Bill. It is now proposed to spell out expressly that self- incrimination constitutes a reasonable excuse for the purposes of sub-clause (5), thus confirming that this is a defence to a prosecution for failing to comply with a requirement to answer a question under sub-clause (1). This reflects the Government's concern to ensure that civil liberties are clearly accorded proper recognition by Commonwealth legislation. 
I believe that this proposed legislation will adequately serve the purpose of protecting an important part of Australia's national heritage and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the High Court's decision in  Russell  v.  Russell  on the Family Law Act, the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General considered the question of uniform State and Territory legislation in the areas of matrimonial property and also maintenance and custody of children to the extent not covered by the Family Law Act. 
The proposal for uniform matrimonial property legislation was referred to the Queensland Law Reform Commission for a report, and that uniform legislation on maintenance and custody of children outside the Family Law Act was referred to the Family Law Council, which has now been established and is due to hold its first meeting later this month. 
A review is being undertaken of the Maintenance Ordinance of the A.C.T. to see what portions should be repealed as having been superseded by the Family Law Act, and what amendments have to be made to give the Family Court of Australia jurisdiction under the remaining provisions. However, it may be desirable to defer any amendments to this Ordinance, and any substantive amendments to the Married Women 's Property Legislation of the ACT, pending the receipt of the reports referred to above. 
A review of the corresponding legislation in the Northern Territory will be undertaken and any necessary amendments will be prepared in consultation with the appropriate Executive Member of the Legislative Assembly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Instructions have been given for the drafting of formal amendments to the Married Women's Property Act 1901 of New South Wales as it applies in the Australian Capital Territory. These instructions were given following the report of the Law Reform Commission of the Australian Capital Territory on New South Wales Acts in force in the Australian Capital Territory. A substantive review of this Act as it applies to the Territory will be undertaken, if necessary, when the Queensland Law Reform Commission furnishes its report to the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General on proposed uniform State and Territory legislation on matrimonial property (as to which, see answer to Question No. 1432). 
Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health (Question No. 1472) 
As I have stated previously in reply to the honourable member's questions relating to the grant of financial assistance, I do not think it appropriate to make public information about particular applicants for legal aid who  are entitled to expect that information supplied would be kept confidential. I would be prepared to make the information available to the honourable member, if he wishes, on a confidential basis. I can, however, supply the following information: 
I am informed by my Department that since 11 November 1975 financial assistance has been given by the Australian Legal Aid Office in the following 10 instances: 
to a conservation group invited to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into Moreton Island which was set up by the Queensland Government; 
to a society as relator which was granted the fiat of 2 State Attorneys-General to pursue Supreme Court action for a declaration that mining leases being operated within a recreation reserve had been issued invalidly; 
to a group of individuals for Supreme Court proceedings to establish whether a City Council holds certain land in trust for public recreational purposes thereby preventing the Council from selling the land for commercial development; 
to a conservation group to object in a Mining Warden's Court to the grant of mining leases in an area which had been recommended for a National Park Reserve; 
to a conservation association to obtain counsel's opinion on whether discharge of sewage into a river by a sewerage authority can be restrained. 
to a conservation trust for an appeal to the High Court in relation to the prevention of prospecting within a rare wilderness area; 
to an environmental association to appeal to a State Planning Authority against consent given for the construction of radio masts in an area which is a scenic backdrop to a capital city; 
to three conservation groups to be represented by counsel at the final stages of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry; 
to a conservation group to object in a Mining Warden's Court to applications for mining leases within a proposed National Park area. 
I am informed by my Department that after 11 November 1975 financial assistance was refused by the Australian Legal Aid Office in the following 3 instances: 
to a conservation group to pursue action in the High Court of Australia to ensure that procedures under the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 were fully implemented. However, the group was informed that the refusal would be reviewed if it obtained a considered opinion from senior counsel on the prospects of success of the proposed action. 
to a group concerned to preserve an Island on the Great Barrier Reef from development as an extensive tourist project. The group appeared to be able to raise sufficient funds to obtain counsel 's opinion and it was informed that its application would be reviewed in the light of counsel's opinion if obtained. 
to an individual to pursue an action for damages against a City Council for destruction to plants and growth on her property used for scientific studies. The matter was regarded as not qualifying for assistance in terms of the national interest involved. 
I am informed by the Department that prior to 11 November 1 975 financial assistance was given by the ALAO in the following 1 8 instances: - 
to a group of individuals to contest in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory construction of the communications tower on Black Mountain; 
to a citizens' committee to appeal to a Local Government Court against permission granted to a company to mine clay and produce clay products without the imposition of adequate conditions to prevent pollution, in a major catchment area; 
to a conservation organisation to oppose, firstly, in a Mining Wardens Court applications for sandmining leases, secondly, to pursue Supreme Court proceedings to a writ of mandamus to require the Mining Warden to hold a proper hearing; and thirdly, when the writ was refused, to appeal successfully to the High Court of Australia; 
d ) to a conservation group to appeal to a Local Government Court against a local government council acting without authority in granting approval for cement works to be constructed on the shores of a city 's river; 
to two conservation groups to be legally represented before a State Commission of Inquiry which exonerated them from any dishonesty in having collected funds for the purpose of setting up a trust to preserve caves containing Aboriginal art regarded as part of the national estate. 
to a conservation group to object in a Mining War dens Court against mining leases issued over land which it claimed, in the public interest, should be included in a proposed National Park; 
to a conservation group to object in a Mining Wardens Court to applications by a company for total exemption from labour conditions on mining leases within a proposed National Park; 
to an association as respondents to a Supreme Court appeal from a decision of a Local Government Court which had upheld the Association's objections to rezoning approvals given by a City Council; 
to a group to object in a Mining Wardens Court to applications by a company for mining leases which threatened underground water supplies to a rural community; 
) to a conservation group to obtain legal opinion on the prospects of a successful challenge to the proposed construction of oil pipelines through parks and recreation areas; 
to an individual representing the public interest to pursue Supreme Court proceedings aimed at curtailing quarrying activities in an area adjacent to a national park; 
to two conservation groups to appeal to a Town Planning Appeals Tribunal to obtain resiting of proposed sewerage works which threatened sea pollution at Westernport near Flinders Naval Base, Victoria; 
to a conservation group to obtain counsel's opinion on whether a local authority was exceeding its powers in its dredging activities associated with a creek, preparatory to piping the creek, through a scarce remaining pocket of natural vegetation in the Mornington Peninsula; 
to a conservation group to appeal to a Town Planning Appeals Tribunal against the grant of a permit for sand extraction likely to cause pollution of streams and loss of land for a public open park; 
to a conservation group as appellants to the Full Court of a Supreme Court from a decision which had reversed the findings of a Mining Warden in relation to prospecting in a rare wilderness area; 
to an association to oppose the appeal of a developer to an interim Planning Appeals Board against a City Council's refusal to permit high density housing on scenic slopes at the approaches of a capital city; 
to two conservation groups to enable them to object to a Metropolitan Regional Planning Authority against proposed extensions to a motor freeway along the foreshores of a city's river; 
to a conservation group to be legally represented before the Commission of Inquiry into Fraser Island. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Prior to answering the honourable member's question of 22 September I had seen Press reports about possible Victorian legislation to fix a minimum price for beer and I had given preliminary consideration to whether Federal legislation would be inconsistent with and invalidate legislation of this character. I had not however seen a copy of any proposed legislation. The honourable member's question of 22 September was of course directed to State legislative or administrative acts purporting to fix a minimum price for commodities which for the purposes of considering inconsistency is materially different from State legislative acts purporting to fix a minimum price for beer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
and (2) I am informed that the names of the committees and the dates of their establishment are as follows: 
Uniform Crime Statistics Committee-July, 1973. 
Commercial Arbitration Committee- February, 1974. 
Computers Committee- July 1975. 
Armed Robbery Committee- July 1975. 
Administration of Justice Committee- July 1 975. 
Credit Laws Committee-July 1 975. 
In addition, the Parliamentary Counsel's Committee operates in conjunction with the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. 
Rural Processing Co-operatives  (Question No. 1573) 
I do not think it is in the interests of justice to disclose publicly facts relating to specific cases where alleged breaches of the law are involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I indicated in Parliament on 1 December 1976 nothing in documents' received by my Department from the United States Department of Justice in connexion with the Lockheed Corporation matter suggests any breach of law or other impropriety by any person. Further, I am unaware of any evidence indicating the receipt by persons in Australia of bribes or secret commissions from the Lockheed Corporation. However, in May last to ensure such a situation will not arise in Australia and as a part of a general review of such legislation, I asked my Department to review the Secret Commissions Act 1 905. That review is continuing. 
) As far as I am aware there is no such proposal. 
As I have indicated before in this House, the discussions with the States are continuing. Those discussions are designed to preserve the position of the staff involved. No final arrangements have been reached with the State of Western Australia in relation to either the form of the legislation or the conditions and terms upon which staff would be taken over by the State of Western Australia. Discussions are going on with that State and with the State of South Australia. I understand that some discussions will be held later this week with the State of Queensland in relation to this matter. I am going along steadily, pursuing the objective which I indicated the Government had adopted earlier this year- that is, to set up an independent commission in each State. During the discussions officers of my Department will continue to attempt to obtain conditions which will preserve the situation of staff. The staff are being consulted in the course of those discussions and I hope that any final arrangements that are arrived at will succeed in preserving their position. 
Some people seem to believe that when the officers go across they will remain Commonwealth public servants. It has always been clear that these commissions will be independent of government and that they will have staff of their own. One of the basic problems with the Australian Legal Aid Office at the moment is that the officers are officers of my Department and on occasions I am in the difficult situation where I am the prosecutor in relation to an applicant for legal aid and at the same time my officers are appearing for him. That is a most undesirable position. I hope that the honourable member for Grayndler would agree with me that it is undesirable and that therefore the officers of the legal aid commissions should be independent of government. It was never my view that the officers would or could remain Commonwealth public servants. However, their terms and conditions of work and their salary structure should be no less favourable than they are at present. 
In the absence of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and as one who has been a farmer for a period of 1 S years, I will do my best to reply to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  First of all, it is to be noted that the amendment is an expression of concern and that the honourable member did not move a detailed amendment. Of course, the honourable member well knows that this scheme flowed from the Industries Assistance Commission report on rural reconstruction. No mention was made by the IAC of the fishing industry to which, I understand, the honourable member's amendment is directed. It is important also to note that the amendment refers to rural adjustment and not to primary industry adjustment. The Schedule to the Agreement in paragraph (a) of Part 1, under the heading 'General Principles', refers to the fact that all agricultural, horticultural and pastoral industries are included in the scheme. It is clearly intended to deal not with primary industry but with rural industry- that is, landbased industry. 
In principle, of course, there is no reason why the fishing industry should not have a similar scheme. I think it is conceded that the basic differences, however, between the rural industry and the fishing industry are such that separate schemes obviously would be more appropriate. It was an election promise of this Government to establish a reconstruction scheme for the fishing industry similar to the present rural reconstruction scheme. At the moment a reference on the fishing industry is before the IAC and a report is expected early in 1977. For that reason, the Government cannot accept the amendment. I think my remarks sufficiently answer what the honourable member for Blaxland has said. Other questions were raised, and I think I should refer them to the Minister so that he can answer them directly. I note that the honourable member for Blaxland raised a question about interest rates. As he is aware, the Commonwealth Government lends to the States at 7 per cent and the States are free to lend on terms and conditions which they set. On the other hand, paragraph 7 (2) of Part C of the Schedule, under the heading 'Introduction', states: 
The Authority shall have the right to review the terms of repayment, including interest rates, of individual accounts at any time and shall exercise this right at regular intervals with the objective of the borrower being encouraged to transfer to commercial credit as soon as circumstances permit. 
That is all I can add to help the honourable member for Blaxland at the moment. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  referred to the inadequacy of the $3,000 lump sum granted under the household support scheme. I think he may have overlooked the existence of the rehabilitation assistance of $5,000 which is not reduced by other assistance received under the household support scheme. I shall refer to the Minister the other matters that have been raised and ask him to deal with them directly. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

They know their farmers. I rise again to answer the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I am sure that he has read the Industries Assistance Commission report on rural reconstruction, because he had to draw on it for what is not really an original amendment. He took it out of the IAC report. That report sets down the matters which appear in sub-paragraphs (a) to (h) in the third paragraph of his amendment and it then says: 
There are several types of administrative arrangements that could carry out the above-mentioned activities. Two approaches are put forward for consideration. Of these the second is preferred. 
Of course, the Commission preferred the approach which the honourable member put forward, namely, a statutory body. We are aware of the desire of the Opposition to set up boards and commissions. Commissions were established time after time in the years in which it was in office. We do not operate automatically in that sense. We look to see whether a commission is necessary. The IAC did not say that this board was necessary. It said that either approach was satisfactory, but it preferred the board. That is clear enough. The honourable member's amendment is in line with the second approach. 
This second approach was discussed with the States. It will be recalled that it was suggested in the IAC report that the States would have representation on this board. Despite the fact that they would have this representation, the fact is that no State authority was in favour of a board. No State authority was in favour of the second approach. That in itself is an indication of their reaction. Some of those States are Labor States, as honourable members will recall, and their reaction was that they did not want a board. Our analysis of the proposal suggests that it would be more costly and would achieve no better results. A very telling point, I suggest to honourable members, is that all the things mentioned in paragraph 3 of the amendment about the method of operation are things that the IAC said could be achieved by a commissioner for rural adjustment appointed within the Australian Department of Primary Industry. There is no need for a board with a large number of members. There is no need for additional administration. There is no need for the additional cost. Therefore, the Government rejects the amendment and indicates once again that it prefers the first approach. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Keating's)  be agreed to. 
-in reply-One wonders why the Opposition is not prepared to accept the fact that the Government and I are prepared to look at legislation so that this Parliament produces the most effective legislation possible. That is the reason why this debate is taking place today. I listened to the debate on the last occasion and I took into account what was said. As events happened that night it was not possible to accept any amendments, having in mind the processes of this House and of the Senate. I considered and investigated the matter at the time and, even though I felt that there was some merit in some of the matters that were being raised, it would not have been possible to accept any amendments. It was for that reason that  Senator Durack,  with my approval, indicated to the Senate that we would take these matters into account. 
I hope that while I am Attorney-General I will approach legislation on the basis that the Parliament should produce the most effective legislation possible. For that purpose I personally am prepared to take into account what members of the Opposition say as well as what honourable members behind me say. So, that is the reason why we are debating this legislation and that is the reason I give to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  as to why the matter could not be dealt with on the last occasion. I was troubled by those who took that point of view, and it seemed to me that in the long run this was a provision that could be left out. The justification for it was to place beyond debate a matter which is a peculiar consideration for a Minister of State- namely, the public or national interest -and to leave it beyond the examination of a court which is not appropriate to deal with it. However, the views of honourable members opposite and those behind me and in the Senate indicate that that sub-section might best be left out. It is for that reason that the Government is minded to leave it out. 
There has been some suggestion that the legislation was invalid or unconstitutional. I do not regard the legislation in its existing, unamended form as unconstitutional. As I said on the previous occasion- I repeat it now- if section 4 (2) is left out it will improve it as a piece of legislation insofar as it confers on an Attorney-General- not just this one but also future AttorneysGeneral a power which might be regarded as being excessive. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  made a suggestion. When I first considered the suggestion I thought it was reasonable. He said that m a case such as this where an Attorney-General makes an order the Parliament that produces the legislation ought to be able to review the order. It is for that reason I felt it was appropriate for the provision to go in. 

 Senator Steele Hall said that he was troubled by the fact that the words ' foreign tribunal ' could include the Privy Council. There again it seemed to me to be reasonable to exclude the Privy Council where it was exercising jurisdiction by way of appeal from a court in this country. It is unfortunate that these appeals to the Privy Council continue. I remind honourable members opposite that 3 State Attorneys-General are of their political colour and I invite honourable members opposite to say to those State Attorneys-General: 'Why do you not take the step of removing that right of appeal?' I have said this in a public speech to one AttorneyGeneral while he was present. If the right of appeal was removed, this question would not arise. 
I refer now to the reservation that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has. I do not have the same trouble. The Privy Council is taken out of the definition of 'foreign tribunal'. When the Privy Council is exercising jurisdiction on appeal it is not likely to be in a situation, as a foreign tribunal, where it is requiring evidence from persons in Australia which would possibly be against the national interest. It would be dealing with a matter within the purview of Australian law, albeit that the Privy Council, as some would see it, is a foreign tribunal. I invite honourable members opposite to go to the State Attorneys-General and see what they say. 
Some other matters were raised. I do not feel any threat from my rear, but it was suggested that I had no sense of urgency, that I had interrupted a defence debate. Let me say that since that occurred proceedings have come before the Supreme Court of New South Wales and an order was made by me as I have already indicated to the Parliament. Those proceedings have since been adjourned as a direct effect of the order made under this legislation. I say that simply to indicate that the passing of the legislation on that night was necessary. The letters of request themselves were executed according to my information by a judge of the United States District Court in Virginia on 21 October 1976. The honourable member for Hawker apparently knew- the facts were not easy to discover; it is a pity he did not tell me- that the proceedings came before the Supreme Court of New South Wales on, I would imagine, 7 November. According to the honourable member it was Tuesday, 7 November. That only indicates that this matter was considered in some sense of urgency. On the morning of 1 8 November I said to him- I refer to this matter perhaps to defend myself to some extent: 
The matter of whether such evidence should be produced is under consideration at the moment. 
I meant that. The question of whether legislation should be introduced that day was determined that day. The final form of the legislation had to be determined that day. I thought I expressed regret- if I did not I do now- that such legislation has to be introduced as a matter of urgency. I do not apologise to the House or to members opposite or behind me for the Government 's seeing fit on that night to introduce that legislation. 
Perhaps if I deal with the amendment now it may save time at the Committee stage. The Government is not prepared to accept the amendment that this Act operate only until June 1977. The legislation is regarded as satisfactory in its amended form. The point is this: The Parliament is protected because the order has to be laid on the table in each House of Parliament. We are deleting sub-section (2 ) from section 4 of the Act. I say to honourable members opposite that if they indicate to me any matter which troubles them about this legislation and its operation in ensuing months or at any time while I am Attorney-General I will certainly take it into account and give it careful consideration. I would think that that is the way in which to deal with the legislation. It is not opposed by either side of the House. We both see its merit in order to protect the situation of Australia, Australian companies and the like. The honourable member for Hawker says that he wants a marketing authority. That was his party's view when in government.  His  party wanted to take over the mining and marketing of uranium through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. That is a form of nationalisation which honourable members opposite adopt. We do not adopt it. There is no ment, from the Government's point of view, in what the honourable member for Hawker suggests. I thank honourable members for their comments and I simply again commend this Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I have dealt basically with the matters that have been raised. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  spoke for some time about inserting an amendment in the legislation. I indicated earlier that so far as I am concerned the Government is willing to listen to any amendments put forward by the Opposition. If members of the Opposition examine the legislation in the ensuing months and feel that it is ineffective or unjust, or breaches some basic principle, I ask them to bring it to my attention and it will receive consideration. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  raised the question of reciprocity. He said that we have to consider the rights of States in international law. Well, I guess we have to do that. This legislation is concerned with the rights of Australia in relation to this matter and the intrusion of anti-trust laws in the United States of America into what basically is Australia's concern, namely, the price at which we will fix our uranium. We are acting in our national interests. That is why we are acting in this way and that is why this legislation ought to remain on the statute books, f can understand the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  being a little sensitive because I referred to him as a socialist. He does not like being called a socialist. When I was referring to him during the debate at the second reading stage, I was referring not to him personally but to the policy of the Opposition when in Government, namely, the policy of mining every piece of metal in Australia and then selling it. That was the previous Government's method of having a marketing authority. This Government will not follow that course. It has made it quite clear that it wants the mining operations of this country to be carried out by another method- one that is more likely to be efficient and in the national interest. 
I have no doubt that in the range of policy options that the Government will consider m this matter will be the question of establishing some form of marketing authority. Let me make it quite clear that what the Labor Government did and what previous Government did so far as their participation in any activity which is now thought to be the subject of anti-trust laws in the United States was concerned was exactly the same. The Labor Government did nothing about it. It had an opportunity to do something but it did not take that opportunity. It continued with the policy of the previous Government in relation to this matter. It ill-behoves the honourable member for Hawker to suggest at this stage that we are somewhat in default for not having taken this action when the Labor Government had the opportunity to take it during the 3 years it was in office. 
Question put. 
That the new clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  be inserted. 
The answer to the honourable member question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of any reports of witnesses being bullied in cases coming before the South Australian Supreme Court. 
I am aware of a report that the Supreme Court of South Australia has taken the view that a practitioner had, in the manner in which a certain notice of appeal to the Full Court was drawn up, been in contempt of the court. The question whether the matter in the notice of appeal amounted to contempt of court was one for the Court to decide. 
I am not aware of any evidence of an abuse of authority. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3)I have seen the case notes in the Federal Law Review to which the question refers. The commentator did express an opinion that, by the decision, "natural justice has been offended in the matter of a man's liberty". The commentator disagreed with the conclusion in the joint judgment of Barwick C.J., Stephen, Mason and Jacobs JJ. that section 78 of the Judiciary Act does not apply to an applicant for special leave to appeal to the High Court. He also disagreed with the view of McTiernan J. that section 78 only provides a rule of practice and as such is subject to the power conferred on the Justices of the High Court by section 86 of the Judiciary Act to make rules of court regulating the practice and procedure of the Court. 
It is not uncommon for a commentator in legal matters to express disagreement with a decision of a court, or with the reasons for a decision. It is not appropriate for the AttorneyGeneral to express an opinion, in an answer to a Parliamentary question, on the legal merits of the particular decision of the High Court. 
Having regard to the decision of the High Court in the case referred to, it must be taken that, as a matter of law, section 78 of the Judiciary Act does not confer on an applicant for special leave to appeal to the High Court a right to be present personally in the Court and to argue his case on the application for special leave. Whether section 78 should be amended in any respect is a matter that will be considered by the Judiciary Act Review Committee now examining the Judiciary Act and the Committee will report to me on this matter in due course. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Although the report is entitled Law and Poverty in Australia only a relatively small number of the Commission's recommendations relate to matters that fall within my responsibility. In some of those areas the major impact of the recommendations would be on the position in the States, with the Commonwealth's responsibility in the Territories being of relatively minor significance. 
Recommendations involving human rights especially the rights to privacy and individual freedoms are within my responsibility and the Government is vigorously pursuing a policy of protection of individual rights and freedoms so far as it has power to do so. 
The Report contains many important recommendations on legal aid. I have been conducting a review of legal aid in Australia and the Government is co-operating with the States in the establishment of Legal Aid Commissions. Draft legislation establishing Legal Aid Commissions in the Territories is currently under consideration. 
In considering the impact of the criminal law on poor people, consistently with the recommendations of the Commission, the vagrancy laws in the Northern Territory have been repealed and a Report recommending their repeal in the Australian Capital Territory is before the Legislative Assembly. 
The Commission pointed out that further research is needed on the representation of poor people throughout the criminal justice system. The Australian Institute of Criminology is an appropriate body to carry out this type of research and I shall take up this question with the Director of the Institute at an early date. 
In summary, I understand that there are no recommendations of the Sackville Report for which I have primary responsibility that are not the subject of proposals for implementation or receiving consideration. 
With regard to the recommendations that are the responsibility of other Ministers I am aware that full consideration is being given to the action that should be taken. I understand that an announcement will be made at an appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The guidelines used call for the rejection of material which unduly emphasises sex, horror or violence, or which is considered pornographic. The working definition of pornography is verbal or pictorial publications devoted overwhelmingly to the explicit depiction of sexual activities in gross detail, with neither acceptable supporting purpose or theme, nor redeeming features of literary or artistic merit. 
I am informed that 2S02 publications and 37 films were rejected after examination by censorship officers and the Film Censorship Board during the period 1 July 197S to 30 June 1976. 1 understand that the figure for publications does not include material which is seized by the Collectors of Customs in each State upon entry and deemed to be hard core pornography. This type of material need only be referred to my Department if the seizure is contested by the importer. 
It will be seen from the answer to part 3 of the question that a list of prohibited publications would be very lengthy indeed. The details are available as part of the Department's records and, if the honourable member wishes to see them, I shall be happy to arrange for them to be made available for his inspection. Countries of origin are predominantly the United States, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark. 
No. Commonwealth censorship controls relate to all material imported into Australia irrespective of the port of entry. I understand that all State Governments have legislation governing the exhibition, advertising, display and sale of material within their borders. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Legislation relating to the formal validity of wills already exists under the Wills Ordinance 1968 of the Australian Capital Territory and the Wills Ordinance 1938 of the Northern Territory. So far as my Department is aware no action is currently being taken to review this legislation and no action has yet been taken to implement the Convention Providing a Uniform Law on the Form of an International Will. I would propose to discuss the implementation of this Convention in due course with the State Attorneys-General. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
So far as my Department is aware no general review of the laws relating to personal property in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory is presently contemplated. The Australian Capital Territory Law Reform Commission has recently reported on a reference concerning a review of the laws relating to real and personal property in the Australian Capital Territory in the context of reform of the law in that Territory relating to conveyancing. The reference to personal property was included to cover leasehold title to land. Particular aspects of personal property are also under consideration in relation to the model Credit Bills in the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. 
Procedure in Courts of Petty Sessions  (Question No. 1436) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report on the Civil Procedure of the Court of Petty Sessions presented by the A.C.T. Law Reform Commission in September 1972 was made in response to the following reference- 
The review of the civil procedure of the Court of Petty Sessions with a view to recommending amendments that would be desirable if the present monetary limit in the Court's civil jurisdiction is increased by several thousand dollars'. 
The Law Reform Commission made recommendations as to the civil procedure in the Court of Petty Sessions appropriate for claims up to $5,000. The Commission also recommended the establishment of a separate procedure for small claims. This latter recommendation was implemented by the Small Claims Ordinance 1974. 
No substantial increase in the civil jurisdiction of the Court of Petty Sessions has been made. It is now proposed to increase the limit of civil jurisdiction of the Court from $ 1 ,000 to $2,500. 1 am also considering the question of a new lower court structure for the Australian Capital Territory. A revision of the rules of civil procedure based on the Report of the A.C.T. Law Reform Commission will be considered in the context of these proposals. 
Expenditure by Overseas Visitors in Australia  (Question No. 1469) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 expect to be in a position to introduce legislation next year. 
and (3) I will instruct my Department to give consideration to the Canadian provisions in the course of preparing the legislation. I understand that the Credit Laws Committee has had its attention directed to the Canadian provisions. I also understand the matter is still under consideration by that Committee. 
The Australian Bankers' Association, The Law Council of Australia, The Commercial Law Association of Australia Limited and the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
Overseas Visitor Arrivals in Australia (Question No. 1462) 
by leave- The interdepartmental committee on policy proposals for freedom of information legislation was convened earlier this year at the request of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to study and report to me on policy proposals for freedom of information legislation, taking into account the report of the interdepartmental committee on proposed freedom of information legislation that was tabled in Parliament in 1974, the implication of amendments to the United States Freedom of Information Act that were made in 1974 and not dealt with in the earlier report and any other matters that might be relevant. The Government decided that this further report should be tabled before the Parliament rises to enable the widest possible public discussion of the proposals made by the committee. The Government authorised me to prepare legislation for a freedom of information Bill. It is intended that that Bill will be introduced in the Autumn sittings next year. Representations that are made upon the interdepartmental committee report will be taken into account in drafting the Bill. 
I should say that, in authorising the preparation of a Bill, the Government does not commit itself to accepting the proposals put forward by the committee. I will be examining these proposals very carefully, with particular regard to public comments that are made on them. The final shape of the Bill will be decided by the Government. It is also proposed that the Bill, when introduced, will be left to lie for a reasonable period for public comment on the Bill. The Government is anxious to have the fullest possible public input in determining the final shape of the legislation. The Government regards freedom of information legislation, giving the citizens a right of access to all government records that can properly be made available consistent with the protection of necessary confidentiality, as an important element in making government accountable to the electorate. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this Legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Historic Shipwrecks Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I wish only to thank honourable members for their contributions to this debate. I think that everybody will agree that it has been a most constructive debate. It was interesting to listen to the honourable members for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and Holt  (Mr Yates)  who spoke on the historical aspects of this legislation. Their historical research indicates the significance of this legislation. As we develop the continental shelf or the economic zone around Australia, it is essential that we protect the historic relics that lie off our coast. 
I think that a great deal of credit must go to Western Australia for having the foresight to preserve these historic relics. This legislation precedes a great deal of development that I believe all honourable members believe will take place off-shore in the future. It is a good thing to have legislation which will stop the pillage that has been going on. I gather that the  Mahogany Ship  about which the honourable member for Holt spoke is not in the sea at all but is up on the beach. 
-I refer the honourable member to the fact that this legislation relates only to the sea or so much of it as is outside the internal waters of the State of Victoria. So, the matter raised by the honourable member is one for the State of Victoria. It is perhaps unfortunate if that State has not acted to deal with the  Mahogany Ship  on the hummocks referred to by the honourable member. But we are indebted to the honourable member for the interest that he has shown in this matter. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  spoke tonight with the extraordinary vigour to which we are accustomed and claimed great credit for amendments to the navigation legislation. He referred to operational manual provisions that had been omitted. I can only say to the honourable member that I regret that I cannot in the time available to me find those provisions. I have not been able to locate them in the Bill that was introduced into and passed by this House last year. I think that theonourable member may have been mistaken but he may be able to refer me later to that provision. 
The honourable member for Fremantle spoke of the Maritime College. The honourable member will know that the site for the College has been selected by the Government at Launceston and some steps are being taken in order to establish it there. Hopefully the College will go ahead in the next financial year with greater speed and zest than will be the case in this financial year. I again thank honourable members for the contributions that they have made. I will pass those technical matters which relate to the Ministry concerned to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  I am sure that he will pay attention to them. If they require answer, the Minister will answer directly to the honourable members concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill 
-Sub-clause 2(4) states: 
Section 25 and 26, sub-section 29 (2) and section 33 of this Act shall come into operation on the day on which the  Historic Shipwrecks Act  1 976 comes into operation or, if the Act has come into operation before the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, those sections and that sub-section shall be deemed to have come into operation on the day on which that Act came into operation. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (4), add 'but the amendments made by sub-sections 26(1) and 29(2) of this Act do not apply in relation to a wreck situated in waters (including waters above the continental shelf) adjacent to the coast of a State until the  Historic Shipwrecks Act  1976 applies in relation to those waters '. 
The addition of these words will have the effect of ensuring that proposed new sub-sections 26( 1 ) and 29(2) ofthe Bill do not apply until the Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976 comes into force. As a result proposed new sections 25, 26 and 29 which refer to the Historic Shipwrecks 
Act will come into force when that Act comes into force. 
-Land which appears above the low water mark becomes part of the State of Victoria. Any land reclaimed which is above the low water mark becomes part of the State of Victoria. As land is reclaimed, of course, the continental shelf goes out a little further. This would be an interesting way to get more of the seabed. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
I have 4 amendments which refer to clauses 9, 1 7 and 23 which read in part: 
Clause 9. (l)Where- 
a person has possession, custody and control of an article; and 
a notice applying in respect of the article is published in the  Gazette  under section 5 or 6, the person shall, within 30 days after the date of publication of the notice in the  Gazette,  give the prescribed notice to the Minister in relation to the article. 
Where, after the commencement of this Act, an article that is, or is a part of, a Dutch shipwreck or is a Dutch relic comes into the possession, custody or control of a person, the person shall, within 30 days after the day on which the article comes into his possession, custody or control, give the prescribed notice to the Minister in relation to the article. 
Clause 17. 
It is a defence to a prosecution of a person for an offence against sub-section (1) if the person proves that a notice setting out a description of the place where the remains are or the article is situated, being a description that is sufficient to enable the remains or article to be located, was given to the Minister by another person before it was practicable for the first-mentioned person to give such a notice. 
Clause 23. 
5 ) A person shall not- 
without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a requirement made of him by an inspector in the exercise of a power under this section; or 
in answer to a question that he is required to answer under this section, make a statement that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
-I move: 
1 ) In clause 9, sub-clause ( 1 ), omit 'and ' (first occurring), substitute 'or'. 
In clause 9, after sub-clause (4), insert the following sub-clause: (4a) It is a defence to a prosecution of a person for an offence against a provision of this section in relation to an article if the person proves- 
in the case of an offence against sub-section ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) in relation to an article in respect of which a notice was published in the  Gazette  under section 5 or 6- that the person did not know, and had no reasonable grounds for believing, that the article was an ' article to which the notice related; or 
in the case of an offence against sub-section (3) or (4)- that the person did not know, and had no reasonable grounds for believing, that the article was a Dutch relic or a part of a Dutch shipwreck. '. 
In clause 17, sub-clause (2), after 'proves', insert ', or proves that he had reasonable grounds for believing. '. 
In clause 23, after sub-clause (5), insert the following sub-clause: (5a) It is a reasonable excuse for a person to fail to answer a question that he is required to answer under this section that the answer to the question may tend to incriminate him.'. 
The first amendment is simply to correct a small drafting error. The next amendment proposes to add new sub-clause (4A) to clause 9. The reason for this amendment is that it has been suggested that as the clause stands at present a person who quite innocently and legally has in his possession an article which comes within the protection of the legislation may be prosecuted for failing to notify the Minister that he has that article, despite the fact that he did not know that the article was protected. The proposed amendment will overcome this objection. 
-I am sure that the honourable member for Newcastle who interjects will think quite quickly that that was a very fair amendment to make. The next amendment is to clause 17. It is proposed to add to sub-clause (2) the words: 'or proves that he had reasonable grounds for believing'. This sub-clause sets up a defence for a person who fails to give the required notice with regard to the discovery of a wreck. It makes it a defence against a prosecution if the person charged can prove that someone else had given the necessary notice. It has been suggested that it should also be a defence if a person has reasonable grounds for believing that the necessary notice has already been given. The proposed amendment will provide this additional defence. 
The last amendment inserts in clause 23 new sub-clause (sa). It is proposed to spell out expressly that self-incrimination constitutes a reasonable excuse for the purposes of sub-clause (s) thus confirming that this is a defence to a prosecution for failing to comply with a requirement to answer a question under subclause ( 1 ). This reflects, as do the other amendmentsparticularly the second and the thirdthe Government's continuing concern to ensure that our civil liberties are protected. Clause 23 provides in sub-clause (5): 
A person shall not- 
without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a requirement made of him by an inspector in the exercise of a power under this section . . . 
The power includes the power to require a person to answer a question. An interesting question of law could arise- and this has been answered in Victoria- as to whether it would be a reasonable excuse not to answer if one felt that the answer might incriminate one. In Victoria a supreme court single judge has held that it would be an excuse. But it was felt that we ought to put this matter beyond doubt and so we have added subclause (sa) to make it clear that this will be a defence. 
-The answer to the honourable member's questions are: 
1 ) Not to my knowledge. 
In view of my answer to (1), the question does not arise. 
Assistance to the Tourist Industry  (Question No. 1463) 
The answer to the honourable Member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any such treaty or arrangement 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am informed that the answers to the other questions asked by the honourable member are as set out in (2) and (9) below. 

 Mr Cobden is not a stenographer.  His  services were utilised because of his ability to accurately record discussions on matters that were the subject of the meeting. 
20 May 1976 at 4.10p.m. 
25 May 1976 at 8.40 a.m. 

 Mr J. Mollison, Director, Australian National Gallery, $22,000 p.a.;  Mr M.  Shannon, Artist, and member of the Public Works Committee of the Visual Arts Board of the Australian Council. 

 Mr J. Mollison from Canberra and  Mr M.  Shannon from Melbourne. 
7) On 24 May 1 976 between 2.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. 
Four other meetings have been held, three at the High Court, Sydney, on 22 August 1975, 2 July 1976 and 10 September 1976 and one at the High Court building site, Canberra, on 25 November 1 976. 

 Mr Cobden 's and  Mr Mollison's  travel was not in realtion to their official dudes as employees of the Australian National Gallery. 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The arrangement between the United States Department of Justice and my Department for mutual assistance in connection with the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation matter and tabled in the House of Representatives on5 October last requires that information made available pursuant thereto should be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties or to government agencies having no law enforcement responsibilities. It is therefore not possible to supply the information requested by the Honourable Member. 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The arrangement between the United States Department of Justice and my Department for mutual assistance in connexion with the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation matter and tabled in the House of Representatives on5 October last requires that information made available pursuant thereto should be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties or to government agencies having no law enforcement responsibilities. The information requested can therefore not be supplied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the reasons given in my answer to question No. 1709 this information cannot be supplied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the reasons given in my answer to question No. 1709 this information cannot be supplied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. With regard to (c), the report was received only recently and is being printed for presentation to the Parliament. 
(a) and (b) Ordinances for the Australian Capital Territory are being prepared to implement the recommendations contained in these reports. 
The Real Property Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory is now the responsibility of the Minister for the Capital Territory. I am informed that the report will be subject  to  examination by officers of his Department with a view to determining the nature of legislation that may be required. 
Legislation is being prepared for the establishment of an office of Public Trustee for the Territory. The recommendations of the Law Reform Commission are being taken into account in the preparation of this legislation. 
The law of Landlord and Tenant is the responsibility of the Minister for the Capital Territory. I am informed that legislation is being prepared following an examination of the Law Reform Commission's report by officers of his Department. 
If there were an inverted responsibility, that is by shadow Ministers, I would be moving a censure motion. This motion has been based on an incorrect statement of the facts. Before a motion such as this was moved against a Minister I should have hoped that those who proposed it, particularly the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  would have taken the trouble to find out the facts. One thing I am very gratified about is that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has now learnt that a Bill has to pass both Houses of Parliament before it can become law. 
Let me turn to the matter that has been the subject of censure against me. Let me first talk about the procedure which on my understanding has been followed for more than 40 years. Let me say at the outset that in doing what I did I did nothing different from what Attorneys-General Latham, Evatt, Spicer, O'sullivan, Barwick, Snedden, Bowen, Greenwood, Murphy and Enderby did. I mention one other person who was an acting Attorney-General; his name is James McClelland. 
They all followed exactly the same prodecure as I followed. 
The honourable member has a smile on his face now. That is a little better. He is beginning to realise that the matter is not quite as serious as he has made out. Section 58 of the Constitution provides: 
When a proposed law passed by both Houses of the Parliament is presented to the Governor-General for the Queen's assent, he shall declare, according to his descretion, but subject to this Constitution, that he assents in the Queen's name, or that he withholds assent, or that he reserves the law for the Queen 's pleasure. 
Not the words 'or that he reserves the law for the Queen's pleasure'. Section 58 also provides: 
The Governor-General may return to the House in which it originated any proposed law so presented to him, and may transmit therewith any amendments which he may recommend, and the Houses may deal with the recommendation. 
There are 2 questions. The first is: Does the Bill have to be reserved for the Queen's pleasure? The second is: Should there be some amendments to the Bill? It would be most unusual- the Opposition would readily agree- for the Governor-General to suggest any substantive amendments. I understand that on odd occasions a Governor-General may have pointed out the need for some typographical amendment. Section 58 of the Constitution requires him to look at 2 matters. 
The sole function of the Attorney-General is to give advice to the Governor-General as to whether a Bill should be reserved for the Queen's pleasure and whether there are any amendments which the Governor-General should propose in relation to it. It never was and never could be the function of the AttorneyGeneral to certify that a law has passed both Houses of the Parliament. That is the function of the Houses. That is why a procedure is laid down for Bills to be certified by the  Clerk  of the Senate when they have passed that House and have come back to the House of Representatives, and why a very detailed procedure is then followed to ensure that the Bill which has passed both Houses is the one a copy of which is being sent to  His Excellency. 
What happens when a Bill comes back from the Senate- if we take a case such as this, where the Bill has not been amended- is that an assent copy is printed by the Government Printer of what is thought to be going to the GovernorGeneral. Then certain procedures are followed. I have checked those procedures. If they had been followed precisely this error could not have occurred. As  Mr Speaker  indicated, there was a human error in the Department of the House of Representatives. As a result, a Bill other than the Bill that had passed both Houses of the Parliament went to  His Excellency,  under a letter from  Mr Speaker  which indicated that the Bill had been passed by both Houses of Parliament. It is that document which indicates to  His Excellency  the fact that a particular measure has passed both Houses of Parliament. 
What happens in relation to the AttorneyGeneral? He has the function of giving advice to His Excellency, not as to whether the Bill has passed both Houses but as to whether any amendments should be made or whether it should be reserved for the Queen's pleasure. In this case an error occurred, in the sense that the 
Bill which  His Excellency  received from  Mr Speaker's  office was not the Bill which had been passed by both Houses. The Attorney-General, as honourable members will understand, is a member of the Legislation Committee. He cannot and does not-I do not know of any Attorney-General who ever did- check every Bill, every comma, every 'and' or 'but'. He cannot give consideration to the expressions in every clause of a Bill. It would be an impossible task for an Attorney-General to perform. That is why he has an Office of Parliamentary Counsel to assist him. That Office prepares Bills and drafts them. They are put through the Legislation Committee and then come into this Parliament. In the Legislation Committee Bills such as the two which we have been discussing this afternoon are brought forward. 
There was never any doubt in my mind which Bill would pass both Houses of the Parliament. The first one, which passed this House in June and which remained on the table of the Senate, was followed by another Bill later in the year- I think in October or November. That second Bill was always intended to replace the first one. Once it was introduced it was never intended that the first Bill would go through because it was intended to supplant it. So, in my mind, being a person who was involved through the office of Parliamentary Counsel in relation to the preparation of Bills, as a person who attended the legislation committee, I never had any doubt in my mind as to what Bill was to go through the Parliament. That is the one that in fact went through- the short Bill, if I can call it that, as distinct from the longer Bill. 
May I indicate the part played by the Attorney-General in relation to the procedure that has been followed for 40 years. The procedure that is followed is for a person taking legislation to Government House to have with him a letter from the Attorney-General which does in fact give the advice in relation to a Bill. In the ordinary course of events, if advice is given to a Bill and there is no mistake, the letter obviously will refer to that Bill and there is no question of any problem arising. The practice that has been followed, however, is that the Attorney-General always has given his certificate- I have checked this- according to Parliamentary Counsel over a period of 40 years in advance of the Bill going from the Speaker's office to Government House. 
When I signed the document in question, in my mind I had no doubt whatsoever to what Bill I was referring. I was referring to a Bill- the short Bill, if I can call it that- that in fact went through both Houses. I was never referring to a Bill that had passed only the House of Representatives. I always had in mind that that Bill would never go forward because the other one was to replace it. I understand that the letter intending to refer to the Bill which had passed both Houses went out to Government House on 13 December, the Bill that I was talking about in my letter having passed the Senate on 9 December. What happened, of course, is obvious. The letter was exchanged with a letter from the Private Secretary of the Governor-General in the ordinary course of events which referred to a Bill of the same name. But my letter was never intended to be used in respect of that Bill. Obviously the letter was exchanged because it was referring to a Bill of the same title whereas I always intended it to refer to a Bill that had passed both Houses. 
As I have said, in doing what I did I followed a practice of over 40 years of giving the AttorneyGeneral 's certificate in advance, not having responsibility to certify that a Bill had passed both Houses of the Parliament but having responsibility to give advice that a particular Bill, one that I understood and contemplated, needed no amendments and need not be reserved for Her Majesty's pleasure. 
In those circumstances I do not, with very great respect to honourable members opposite, admit any negligence in the matter. I have followed a practice of over 40 years. Honourable members opposite may ask: 'Why has that practice been followed?' I imagine that it has been followed by successive governments in order to save time. If the Attorney-General was not able to send in advance a letter carrying his certification additional time would be spent in this procedure. 
The other aspect of the matter, of course, is that the advice that is given is based partly on the Attorney-General's own knowledge and expertise, for instance advice on whether a Bill ought to be reserved for  Her  Majesty's pleasure, but also on the assistance that he gets from the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. Acts Nos 94 to 103 in respect of which I understand  Senator James  McClelland gave a certificate in September 1975 related to such things as the independence of Papua New Guinea. One Act relating to the defence forces had many sections. As I explained earlier, no Attorney-General could ever hope to read every section and to advise whether any specific amendments ought to be made. He has to rely on his officers in the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. So in that respect I do not accept from the Opposition any charge of negligence. So,  Mr Speaker,  I say with very great respect that the Opposition's charge is unfounded. The procedures followed in this matter have been laid down for many years. In those circumstances I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="103131197702153_8_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="103131197702153_8_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Lionel Bowen's)  be agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The laws relating to vagrancy and consorting in Victoria are the responsibility of the Victorian Government. I am not aware of a specific statement by the Council of the Law Institute of Victoria on the subject. 
Section 56 of the Police and Police Offences Ordinance 1926 (N.T.) was amended in 1974 and the relevant part now reads:  56.- ( 1 .) Any person who- 
habitually consorts with reputed criminals, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Yes. 
and (5) The police offences legislation in the Northern Territory has been amended to remove terms such as 'rogues and vagabonds' and the offence of vagrancy. Further amendments are, I understand, being considered by the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. The Working Party on Territorial Criminal Law recommended removal of those terms and the offences of vagrancy and consorting. The Report of the Working Party has been referred to the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory and the Government is awaiting a statement of the Assembly's views. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5 ) It has been the long standing practice of successive Australian Governments not to disclose matters relating to security intelligence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) to (3) It has been the long standing practice of successive Australian Governments not to disclose matters relating to security intelligence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I have not seen a transcript of the interview but my attention has been drawn to the report in the Courier Mail of 23 November 1976 of a statement by the Queensland Premier. I am not aware that the Queensland Minister for Justice had any discussions with British officials during his visit. 
I refer the honourable member to the statement made by the Prime Minister on 7 December 1976 in answer to a I saacs. 
-I understand the honourable member to be referring to sections 141a and 141b of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which enable the Attorney-General to give, in effect, legal aid in cases where union members have brought proceedings in relation to oppressive rules, or perhaps in relation to nonperformance of rules, of organisations. My understanding of the amendments that were made last December in relation to the implementation of the Federal Court proposals is that those sections will apply equally to proceedings which are instituted in the Federal Court Industrial Division. If an order nisi, for instance, is obtained from the Federal Court Industrial Division the applicant can then come to me under section 14lA in order to get financial assistance if he establishes the necessary circumstances. 
I do not think so, but that is a limitation in the section. On the other hand, in relation to section 141b a respondent can come and seek financial assistance after an order for costs has been made. I shall certainly have a further look at the matter. As I understand it those provisions apply equally to proceedings in the Federal Court Industrial Division. 
Yes, I seek that indulgence. This is in one sense a very pleasant duty for me to perform. Honourable members will be aware that recently  Mr Charles  Comans, the First Parliamentary Counsel, retired. I want to place on record in this House his years of service as a parliamentary counsel. He came to Canberra as a member of the Australian Public Service in 1936. Subsequently he joined the Attorney-General's Department where his main interest, of course, was in the drafting section. He became the First Assistant Parliamentary Draftsman in 1949. He served as second in command, I think, to  Mr John  Ewens whom honourable members will recall was the First Parliamentary Draftsman for many years and who retired in November 1972.  His  place was then taken by  Mr Comans  whose retirement took effect from 4 February last. 
I simply want to place on record the many years of service of  Mr Comans.  He is a person of considerable skill as both a lawyer and a draftsman. I should like to place on record the many hours that he has given to his duties. As all honourable members are aware, a parliamentary counsel is a person who has to be dedicated to bis duties. Not only does he have to be dedicated but also he has to be very precise in the advice and attention that he gives. Parliamentary counsel work long hours and it is appropriate, in view of the work that they do for the Parliament, that when they retire from office they should receive public acknowledgement for their work.  Mr Comans,  since his retirement, has been engaged as a consultant. He will continue to work as a consultant to the Attorney-General. He will be engaged in work involving legislative drafting but, of course, he will not have the higher duties of administering the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. It would have been a pity had his magnificent capacities been lost to the Commonwealth. I am happy to say that those capacities have been retained.  Mr Comans  will remain as consultant to the Attorney-General for a period of 3 years. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Government proposes to introduce 4 Bills to alter the Constitution. The first proposes an amendment to the Constitution to provide for simultaneous elections of the Senate and the House of Representatives. The second is designed to write into the Constitution the principle that a casual Senate vacancy should be filled by a member of the same political party as the one the former senator belonged to and for the balance of the term of that senator. The third proposes to amend the Constitution so as to provide for a maximum retirement age for justices of the High Court and of other Federal courts. And the fourth proposes to give electors in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory a vote in future referendums. All these proposals stem from the Hobart meeting of the Australian Constitutional Convention. Following that meeting, the Government gave careful consideration to the resolutions adopted last October. The proceedings at Hobart have given the Government some basis upon which to determine what proposals for constitutional reform have a real likelihood of being approved by the electors. The Government's view in the light of the Convention is that the 4 proposals now brought forward should find general support amongst our people. 
The purpose of the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill is to alter the Constitution to provide for simultaneous elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives. Leaving aside double dissolutions, there is at present no requirement that the elections of the 2 Houses be held at the same time and since 1963 they have frequently been held on separate occasions. The reason for this is that there are different electoral requirements for the 2 Houses. The House of Representatives is elected for a period of 3 years subject to earlier dissolution by the Governor-General. The Senate is a continuing body with senators elected for 6-year terms and it cannot be dissolved except in the event of a double dissolution. But the 6-year terms of senators are staggered. Half of them retire each 3 years and elections are needed to choose their replacements. 
Under the existing provisions it is theoretically possible to keep the elections for the 2 Houses in phase by holding elections for the House of Representatives whenever half-Senate elections are due. However, the exigencies of political life are such that synchronisation on this basis is difficult to maintain. Apart from the special circumstances of the double dissolutions in 1974 and 1975, elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives have been out of phase since 1963. In the 9-year period from 1963 to 1972 there were in fact no less than 7 separate national elections. If the relevant constitutional requirements are not changed there could be as many as 4 elections from 1978 to 1981 and as many as 14 elections over the 20-year period from 1961 to 1981. 
This Bill accordingly provides for the Constitution to be amended so as to ensure that the elections for the 2 Houses will be brought together. It provides for half-Senate elections to be brought Unto line with elections for the House of Representatives whenever those elections may occur. Apart from the benefits of public convenience and savings of expenditure the proposal will benefit the Parliament. By ensuring that the people's will is reflected simultaneously in both Houses, it will provide a more satisfactory electoral basis upon which the government of the country can proceed. 
The proposal that is provided for in the Bill is substantially the same as the one that was submitted to referendum by the then Labor Government in 1974, and on that occasion the proposal only narrowly failed to obtain the required support. The Government believes that it is desirable that the proposal be now submitted to a further referendum. The proposal is in accord with a unanimous recommendation that was made by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Review in its 1958 and 1959 reports. It is one, moreover, for which substantial support was expressed from both sides of Aus.tralian politics at the Hobart meeting of the Australian Constitutional Convention held in October last year. 
The Bill proposes that simultaneous elections be achieved by providing for senators to hold office normally for 2 terms of the House of Representatives instead of for 6 years as at present. This Will, of course, be subject to any earlier double dissolution of both Houses that may take place under section 57 of the Constitution. 
The practical operation of the proposed amendments on senators holding office at the time when the amendments take effect will, subject to a double dissolution, be as follows: 
Senators whose terms are due to expire in June 1978 wil hold office until the first House of Representatives election after the amendments take effect; 
Senators whose terms are due to expire in June 1981 will hold office until the second House of Representatives election after the amendments take effect. 
An incidental matter to which I draw attention is that it is proposed that section 9 of the Constitution be amended to empower this Parliament, rather than the State parliaments, to make laws determining the times and places of electing of senators. This is a logical consequence of bringing elections for both Houses of the Parliament together. 
The proposal will also remedy certain technical deficiencies that have been recognised to exist under the present sections 13 and 15. These were brought to attention by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Review in its 1959 report. More recently they have been under consideration by Standing Committee 'D' of the Australian Constitutional Convention which noted that they would be cured by the simultaneous elections proposal. 
First there is a doubt as to how, after a double dissolution, the term of service of a person who has been validly chosen as a senator, but who has died, resigned or become disqualified before the division of senators into short-term and longterm classes, should be dealt with under section 13. It is doubtful whether such a person can be included in that division. This will be expressly covered by a specific provision requiring the division to be made as if the place of the senator had not become vacant. The provision will not, however, alter the existing practice and procedure for determining which senators should be long-term and which should be short-term. 
The other deficiency relates to persons who are elected as senators, but who have died, resigned or become disqualified before the commencement of their terms of service. Such cases are not likely to happen often and only one case has in fact occurred. But it is doubtful whether the casual vacancy procedures are at present available in such a situation. This doubt will be removed by the present proposal because under the new provisions a senator's term of service will commence on the day of his election, rather than on the first day of July after the election as is at present provided in section 13 of the Constitution. 
The proposal in this Bill departs from the earlier proposal in the following minor respects: 
The 10 day limit within which writs for Senate elections must be issued will be extended to 14 days to permit greater flexibility without unduly delaying the election; 
The 1974 Bill contained a transitional provision to deal with the possibility of an earlier double dissolution. That provision is omitted from the present Bill on the ground that it is unnecessary. The present Bill contains a provision rendering ineffective provisions in it relating to casual vacancies if the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill is passed. 
The BUI contains a redrafted provision to deal with the position of a senator holding office at the time the law commences by virtue of a casual vacancy. In substance it is the same as the provision in the earlier proposal. 
The earlier BUI contained different provisions for the terms of existing senators. This appears to have been because of the particular situation which existed with respect to their term when that Bill was proposed. In broad principle however, the Bills are the same in this regard. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to write into the Constitution the principle that a casual Senate vacancy should be filled by a member of the same political party as the former senator belonged to. The filling of casual Senate vacancies is governed by section IS of the Constitution, which provides for the new senator to be chosen by the Parliament of the State for which the former senator was chosen. If the Parliament is not in session at the time, the Governor of the State, with the advice of its Executive Council, may make a temporary appointment. 
The procedure in section 15 preserves the principle that in the Senate the States are to be represented equally. But it does not ensure that a vacancy will be filled in a way that will preserve the relative voting strengths of the political parties represented in the Senate. Nevertheless from the introduction of proportional representation in 1949 until the vacancy caused by  Senator Murphy's  appointment to the High Court in 1975 the practice was observed of filling casual vacancies by the appointment of a person belonging to the same political party as the former senator. 
When  Senator Murphy  had to be replaced this practice was questioned. Questions arose as to whether it was incumbent on the New South Wales Parliament to replace him with a member of the Australian Labor Party. There were some who felt that there was a convention which required the vacancy to be filled on that basis. But others took the contrary view. In the result, as honourable members will well remember, the person chosen to replace  Senator Murphy  was not a member of the Labor Party. In choosing the person to replace  Senator Murphy  the New South Wales Parliament quite clearly acted within the strict terms of the Constitution. Whether it breached a convention is a matter on which opinions have, and no doubt wil continue, to differ. 
Similar questions arose in relation to the person chosen by the Queensland Parliament to replace the late  Senator Milliner.  The person chosen was a member of the late  Senator Milliner's  party but had not been nominated by it. More recently, however, following the death of the late  Senator Greenwood,  the filling of his place followed the convention. He was replaced by a person who was a member of the political party to which the late  Senator belonged. 
The manner in which casual Senate vacancies should be filled was discussed at the Hobart meeting of the Constitutional Convention last October. On that occasion different views were expressed as to what the principles should be but there was a consensus that the present state of uncertainty that exists in regard to the matter is undesirable. The Convention passed a resolution in the following terms: 
That this Convention affirms the principle that a casual vacancy in the Senate which occurs by reason of the death of a  Senator or  the disqualification or resignation of a  Senator caused  by  bona fide  illness or incapacity, should, in order to maintain the principle of proportional representation and the wishes of the people of the State at the relevant Senate election, be filled by a member of the same political party as the  Senator whose  vacancy is to be filled, but in reaffirming this principle the Convention recommends that the Constitution be amended to provide that the person elected by the Houses of Parliament of the State should hold office for the balance of the term of the  Senator whose  place he is taking. 
The Government has concluded that the appropriate course is to invite the people of Australia to write provisions into the Constitution which will make clear and certain the manner in which Senate casual vacancies are to be fined. The effect of the amendments proposed is that a Senate casual vacancy will have to be filled by a person chosen from the same political party as the person he is to replace. This wil ensure the preservation of the relative strengths of the political parties in the Senate before a vacancy occurs. Doubt was expressed in the 1959 report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Review and in a report of Standing Committee D of the Australian Constitutional Convention whether the concept of a political party is sufficiently certain in its meaning to be written into a provision in the Constitution. I have considered this question but am satisfied that the provision as drafted in the present Bill will operate with certainty of application to the circumstances of Australian political life. It is practicable therefore to insert the provision in the Constitution rather than leave the matter to be governed by a convention which would be uncertain and lead inevitably to debates of the kind that have already taken place. 
The amendment will operate only when the senator chosen by the people- that is at an electionwas, at the time he was chosen, publicly recognised by a political party as being an endorsed candidate of that party and publicly represented himself to be such a candidate. The replacement of senators who were elected as independents will not be affected. If the person who has been chosen as a replacement ceases before taking his seat to be a member of the party to which the former senator belonged, he will be deemed not to have been chosen or appointedunless the reason why he ceased to be a member of that party was that the party itself ceased to exist. 
One question that was debated at the Hobart meeting was whether any amendment of the Constitution or a convention governing the manner of filling Senate casual vacancies should apply to all vacancies no matter how they arose, or whether they should be applicable only in the case of vacancies caused by death, disqualification or resignation cause by  bona fide  illness or incapacity. The resolution passed at the Hobart meeting in fact supported the view that an amendment should be confined to vacancies of this latter kind. The Government has, however, concluded that it would not be desirable to have different rules applying for different types of Senate casual vacancies and the amendment provided for in the present Bill will accordingly apply to all Senate vacancies no matter how they arise. 
In accordance with the resolution passed at the Hoban meeting a person appointed as a replacement senator will hold office under the proposed amendment for the balance of the original senator's term, instead of until the next House of Representatives or Senate election as at present. One matter which the amendments make clear is that a replacement senator can himself be replaced. Any subsequent replacement will, however, like the original replacement, have to be on the basis that the relevant political party is always the party for which the original senator was endorsed at the time he was chosen by the people. The Government would hope that this Bill will be supported on both sides of the House. This, more than anything else, will convince the electorate that the proposed amendments are desirable and should be accepted. I commend the Bill to the House. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Constitution so as to provide for a maximum retirement age for justices of the High Court and of other Federal courts. Section 72 of the Constitution provides for justices of the High Court and of other courts created by the Parliament to be appointed by the Governor-General in Council and it provides that they are not to be removed, except by the Governor-General in Council, on an address from both Houses of the Parliament in the same session praying for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. 
As long ago as 1918, the High Court held in Alexander's case that section 72 requires that every justice of the High Court and every justice of any other court created by the Commonwealth Parliament, and indeed every magistrate so appointed, shall, subject to the power of removal contained in that section, be appointed for life. It has, in consequence, been generally accepted that justices of the High Court, and other Federal judges including magistrates, cannot be required to retire on reaching a specified age. This is an unsatisfactory situation. There is an almost universal practice that the holders of public offices retire on attaining a maximum retirement age. The reasons for this practice are well known and they do not need to be spelt out here. 
In Australia and in similar countries there is a growing acceptance of the need for a maximum retiring age for judges. In all Australian States a retiring age has been fixed for Supreme Court judges. The question of a maximum retiring age has assumed increased significance today when there are many more Federal judges than in 1918 when Alexander's case was decided. At present there are in all S3 serving Federal judges. This includes seven on the High Court, 19 on the Federal Court of Australia and 27 on the Family Court of Australia. When the Family Law BUI was passing through Parliament in 1 975 the view was taken that Family Court judges should be required to retire on attaining the age of 65 years. Provisions were in fact included in the BUI to ensure that this is the position in the case of judges appointed to State Family Courts. But the present constitutional requirements precluded similar provisions being included in relation to judges appointed to the Family Court of Australia. It is anomalous that this distinction between Federal and State judges of similar courts should exist and that the Commonwealth Parliament should be unable to do anything about the matter. 
The amendment provided for in this Bill is in accordance with recommendations made in October last year by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and by the Hobart meeting of the Australian Constitutional Convention. The Senate Committee's recommendation drew a distinction between justices of the High Court and judges of other Federal courts. The Committee considered that the Constitution itself should provide that High Court justices be required to retire on reaching the age of 70 years and that Parliament should be empowered to fix the maximum retirement ages of other Federal judges subject to a constitutional limit of 70 years. This is a proposal with which the Government fully agrees. The Constitutional Convention, by an overwhelming majority, adopted the Senate Committee's recommendation in its own resolution. The distinction drawn by the Senate Committee is an important one. In observing this distinction the amendment contained in this BUI recognises the special position of the High Court as the Federal Supreme Court created by the Constitution and vested with the power to interpret the Constitution and, one hopes, soon with ultimate appellate power in this country. It also recognises that the same considerations do not necessarily apply in the case of judges and magistrates in courts other than the High Court and that the position in regard to those other courts may well vary from court to court. 
There are 3 important safeguards embodied in the present proposal, all of which were contained in the recommendations of the Senate Committee and the Constitutional Convention. Firstly, the amendment will have only a prospective operation. That is to say, the existing life tenure of all Federal judges holding office at the time of commencement of the amendment wil be preserved. There can be no suggestion, therefore, that the amendment is directed against any existing judges, or that those judges will be prejudiced in any way by the amendment. An existing judge will, however, become subject to the retirement requirements of the amendment if, after the amendment takes effect, he accepts appointment to another office of justice of the same court having a different status or designation. If, for example, a justice of a court were, after the amendment took effect, to accept appointment as Chief Justice of that court, he would thereafter be subject to the retirement age applicable to any justice of that court. 
The second safeguard is that, even though under the proposal this Parliament wil be authorised to fix the specific retiring age forjudges of federal courts other than the High Court, a judge once appointed will have a constitutionally guaranteed tenure to the retiring age that was applicable to his office at the time of his appointment. In other words, any subsequent changes in the retiring ages will, again, be purely prospective in effect. This wil ensure that there can never be even any suggestion that judicial retiring ages are being manipulated. More importantly, however, it will help to secure the independence of the federal judiciary, notwithstanding the existence of a procedure for fixing retiring ages. 
The third safeguard is that the existing provision in the Constitution that federal judges cannot be removed from office except on the grounds of proved misbehaviour or incapacity wil be preserved subject only to the provisions relating to retirement. This will remain the formal ultimate guarantee for the independence of the federal judiciary. As I have indicated, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Hobart meeting of the Australian Constitutional Convention have recommended this proposal. It will provide for federal judges to retire at an appropriate age without in any way interfering with the independence of the judiciary. I commend the BUI to the House. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this BUI is to give electors in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern 
Territory the right to vote in referendums for the alteration of the Constitution. At present a proposed law for the alteration of the Constitution must be submitted in each State for the approval of the electors qualified to vote for the House of Representatives. A proposed amendment is not, however, submitted to electors in the Territories. If a referendum proposal is to succeed it must be passed by what has become known as a 'double majority'. The proposal must be passed by a majority of all the electors voting in the referendum and it must also be passed by a majority of votes in a majority of States. 
The amendment provided for in the Bill will require a proposed law for the alteration of the Constitution to be submitted to all electors qualified to vote for the House of Representatives. It will not matter whether those electors live in a State or a Territory. The amendment will affect the operation of the first of the double majority requirements I have mentioned, that is, the requirement that there be a majority vote of all the electors. That majority will now take account of the votes of electors who are resident in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Any other Territory which in future develops to the stage where it is allowed representation in the House of Representatives will also at that stage be automatically covered by the amendment. The proposed amendment will not, however, affect the second majority requirement I have mentioned, that is the requirement that a proposal for amendment of the Constitution must be passed by a majority vote in a majority of States. That requirement will continue to apply as at present. 
Both Territories have repeatedly sought the right to participate in referendums. The former Advisory Council of the Australian Capital Territory passed a series of resolutions between 1965 and 1967 seeking voting rights in referendums and the former Northern Territory Legislative Council passed a similar resolution on 1 1 October 1973. The proposal to give electors in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory a vote in constitutional referendums was also the first item on the agenda of the meeting of the Australian Constitutional Convention in Hobart last year and was overwhelmingly endorsed by that Convention, I think, by a vote of 81 to 10 
It may come as a surprise to many Australians that electors who are resident in the Territories are not at present entitled to vote in constitutional referendums. The reason for this is to be found in the fact that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory did not exist when the Constitution was framed. But now that these Territories are rapidly growing communities with representation in both Houses of the Federal Parliament there is no sound reason to exclude them from participating in the process of constitutional reform. When the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory ceased to be parts of the States of New South Wales and South Australia respectively the residents of the Territories were disenfranchised. In the intervening years they have been allowed representation in both Houses. The proposal in this Bill if adopted wil redress the situation. 
In principle, the proposition that all electors of the Federal Parliament ought to be entitled to vote in referendums cannot be open to challenge. What is involved is a basic democratic right. Electors in the Territories are not second-rate citizens. They, like other Australians, are affected by changes to the Constitution and it is anomalous that they do not, at present, have the right to participate in referendums. Honourable members will recall that a proposal to give Territory electors referendum voting rights was included in the Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill that failed at a referendum in 1974. It was then, however, linked with a proposal that section 128 of the Constitution should be amended to allow changes to the Constitution if a majority of voters in only 3 States agreed to the alteration instead of a majority of voters in a majority of States, as the Constitution now provides. 
Yes. The present Bill does not link the proposal with any other proposal. This will enable people to interpret it. Although different in terms it is in substance the same as that measure. The indications from the Hobart meeting of the Australian Constitutional Convention are that the proposal that Territory electors should be given a vote in referendums has overwhelming support. The Government believes that the proposal is one which should now be submitted to the people. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The Government has not given consideration to that Bill. Although the 
Government supports the view that the High Court should become the ultimate court of appeal in the country, it regards the question whether appeals to the Privy Council should be abolished or terminated as a matter for each State. I can only say that I have raised the question at meetings of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General for consideration by Attorneys-General of the States. At my request the question of a Statute of Westminster for the States was referred to a sub-committee of that Standing Committee. It seemed to me that it might consider the abolition of those appeals in the course of considering that matter. That subcommittee has not yet reported. 
May I say that there are at the moment 3 Labor Attorneys-General. I understand that recently an appeal did go from South Australia to the Privy Council on an electoral matter and that there was a finding against the State of South Australia. I do not know whether that decision will incline the Labor Attorney-General in South Australia to do something about appeals to the Privy Council. There is no indication whether the Attorneys-General from either New South Wales or Tasmania are active on this question. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that if he is anxious to further the cause of abolition of appeals to the Privy Council he have a word with the Premiers of those States. 
in reply-I am very grateful to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  Indeed, I am very grateful to all members for the way in which this debate has been conducted. There have been moments when there has been some looking backwards but basically this has been a very constructive debate. One of the reasons for the hurry in relation to this matter is that these Bills have to be passed by next week. They have to go to the Senate. The intention of the Government is that a referendum on these matters be held on 2 1 May. Under the Constitution a period of 2 months must elapse before there can be a referendum. It must be held within a period between the expiration of 2 months and the expiration of 6 months after the passage of the Bills through both Houses. I am grateful to all members of the House for being prepared to co-operate. 
One of the main matters raised by members is the fact that the Government, when in Opposition, opposed the simultaneous elections referendum. There are a number of very good reasons why the Government's attitude has changed. Honourable members will remember that in May 1974 those referenda were put to the people at a general election. The simultaneous elections referendum was part of a number of referenda. If honourable members recall, some of those referenda were of a nature that clearly no government of our political persuasion could agree to. Two of the better referenda, namely, that relating to simultaneous elections and that relating to electors of the Territories being able to vote on referenda, were mixed up with others. Therefore, in an election atmosphere there was little chance of being able to put matters to the electorate, in a way that would have enabled it to appreciate properly the various referenda. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no point of order. 
One of the referenda related to the Commonwealth taking over local government borrowings. Another related to electoral divisions being divided not according to the number of electors but according to equal numbers of people. That would have been a most confusing electoral division to have because the principle of one vote one value would not have been even approximately achieved. Probably under that proposal there would have been a SO per cent differential instead of one of 20 per cent. That was the sort of referendum that we had in 1 974. Was it any wonder that the previous Government could not sort the good from the bad. That proposal was like so many things that the previous Government did- some of them were good but they were mixed up with the bad so often. 
Honourable members will remember that the previous Government also attempted to control the upper Houses and the electoral systems of the various States. As a result, it was not possible for the then Opposition to approve of these referenda. Now the right thing is being done. The referenda that we are now proposing are to be taken to the people in a proper atmosphere. I would suggest that the right time in which to hold a referendum is not at the time of a general election. The best time to hold a referendum is when people can give proper consideration to the matters that are being raised, when they are able to analyse the arguments, and decide what is the appropriate thing to do. That is precisely what the Government is now doing. These questions will be put in an atmosphere which is isolated from the heat of political battle that inevitably surrounds an election. 
I think also that the events of 1975 support the desirability of the simultaneous election proposal. If the Senate is prepared to exercise its power to force the House of Representatives to the people, I believe that at least half of the senators ought also to face the people at that time. If this is done I believe that the Senate will be made a better and more responsible body. Some people will argue that such a proposal would detract from the Senate's power. I do not believe that it would. Rather it will make the Senate more responsible. 
Another matter that makes the simultaneous election proposal much more significant now is the fact that it was discussed and approved at the Australian Constitutional Convention in Hobart. As honourable members who were at the Convention will recall, this proposal was passed on the voices and it therefore appears to have had the unanimous support of all of who were there. 
I would like now to draw attention to an argument I put forward in my second reading speech, namely as to the savings that will be made if simultaneous elections are held. At current costs a half Senate election would cost $5. 5m and a House of Representatives election would cost $5m. A joint election for the House of Representatives and half of the Senate would cost $6m. It is true that a referendum may cost $5m to $7m. Bearing in mind that we can anticipate at least 4 elections between 1978 and 198 1, obviously simultaneous elections would lead to a great deal of saving in public expenditure as well as in convenience to the public. 
A number of points have been raised and I shall try to deal with them very quickly because we have very little time in which to pass these Bills. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - 
-I want the vote to start in about 2 minutes. The honourable member for Hindmarsh very seriously raised a couple of matters for my attention. He was concerned with the introduction of the concept of political parties into the Constitution and he asked whether laws could be passed by the Parliament to define them. If the provision in respect of casual vacancies is accepted, it will in fact have the effect of giving to the High Court should the occasion arise the definition of a political party. The Government understands, and I believe that all honourable members understand, what a political party is. If we do not understand what a political party is, I doubt whether we understand what anything is. The problem of definition is not a very real one at all. 
Questions were raised about what would happen to various senators whose seats were vacated. I do not want to refer to particular senators, but under the proposal if the seat of an independent candidate elected by the people is subsequently vacated, the Government or Parliament of the State he represented is responsible for filling his vacancy. They could choose anybody who had the qualifications of a senator to replace him. So under the proposal there is no binding provision relating to political party governing the replacement of an independent senator. In the case of a senator who changes his party the State parliament would choose a candidate from the Party to which the ex-senator belonged when he was elected. The basic principle is that the will of the people should prevail. This principle ought to be translated into the replacements following a casual vacancy. 
We have, of course, adopted the view that the reason for the casual vacancy has no relevance. Indeed it has not. It may be that what brought about the casual vacancy can give rise to a great deal of public debate, as it has in this Parliament in the past. But that has nothing to do with the implementation of the principle, namely, that the people's will ought to prevail in respect of the replacement. The fact that a senator vacates his seat for some unsatisfactory reason has nothing to do with the people. They choose a Liberal man, a Labor man, a National Country Party or an independent. That is what ought to be reflected in the act of replacement. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is the first of 3 Bills which I shall introduce tonight. As they are inter-connected, I will deal with all of them in this speech. These Bills propose a number of amendments to the- Representation Act 1905, the Census and Statistics Act 1905 and the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that at this hour of the evening the honourable member for Wills should not continue to take frivolous points of order. 
Most of the proposed amendments arise as a necessary consequence of 2 High Court decisions- that of December 1975, known as the McKinlay case- and that of February 1977, known as the McKellar case. In the past, the procedures for redistribution of the House of Representatives provided that, on the basis of the 5-yearly census population figures, the Chief Australian Electoral Officer determined, according to a set formula, the representation entitlements of each State. The procedures which followed involved the appointment of distribution commissioners who examined and made recommendations for the electoral boundaries to apply in each State in accordance with the determined representation entitlement. Following the presentation by the Minister of the reports of the distribution commissioners, it was then a matter for Parliament to decide whether or not to accept those distribution proposals and, as a result, whether or not the determined representation entitlement for a State would be put into effect. 
The High Court has now made a number of very important rulings which have changed this scheme of things and which require new procedures to be introduced as a matter of urgency. In the first place, the Court looked at the constitutional provision in section 24, namely, that the number of members to be chosen in the several States shall be determined 'whenever necessary'. The Court's view was that this means that the number of members to be chosen in the several States must be determined in time for each ordinary general election and that such elections must be held in accordance with the entitlements so determined. However, the Court recognised that this mandatory principle would not apply in the case of elections other than ordinary general elections. 
The Bills contain provisions designed to ensure that the High Court's decision is given effect to and ensure that a determination of the representation entitlement of the several States will be made in the twelfth month of the life of a House of Representatives. The Bills also contain provisions designed to ensure that where the representation entitlement of any State is altered, the redistribution of that State will accordingly be effected. However, although the Parliament has no discretion to decide whether or not to accept any new representation entitlement in any of the States, it does not follow that it should have no say in the redistribution process. The position in this regard will remain as before. In the twelfth month of every Parliament, the Chief Australian Electoral Officer, on the basis of the latest available population statistics which he is to obtain from the Australian Statistician, will make a determination as to the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for each State and forward that determination to the Minister. If that determination discloses that there should be an alteration to the number of members of the House of Representatives for any State, then the required redistribution will be proclaimed and Distribution Commissioners will be appointed. The procedures for the conduct of a redistribution will follow in the same way as they always have done, in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, until the Distribution Commissioners' reports have been presented to Parliament. The reports will then be subject to parliamentary acceptance or rejection. 
However- and this is a most important point to note- in the case of an ordinary general election, if a State has not been divided into the appropriate number of divisions which accords with the determined representation entitlement, that ordinary general election will be conducted 'at large ' for that State. This means that the State will be regarded as one division and the members, to the number as determined, will be elected for that one division. 
Do you mean when it is at large? 
-Well, we will have to do what they did in 1900. The Government believes that the procedures which I have outlined meet the constitutional requirements as interpreted by the High Court in its McKinlay judgment. The procedures will be given effect to by the proposed amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 and the Representation Act 1905. Additionally, amendments are proposed to the Census and Statistics Act 1905 in order to require the Statistician to conduct quinquennial censuses and to compile quarterly population statistics. Account must also be given to the judgment of the High Court in the McKellar case. In this case the Court ruled invalid that section of the Representation Act relating to what is known as the 'remainder provision'. Under the Act as it stood, if, in the calculation of the representation entitlement of a State for the purposes of a determination, there was any remainder resulting from the calculation, then one more member was added. 
The High Court held invalid and of no effect the 1964 amendment which introduced the 'any remainder' formula as it did not comply with the requirements of section 24 of the Constitution relating to the nexus between the House of Representatives and the Senate and the proportional representation of the several States in the House of Representatives. The Court held that the pre- 1964 provisions which reflected the constitutional position were the operative ones. The Representation Amendment Bill restores those provisions to the Act. The Representation Amendment Bill also provides that a determination of the representation entitlement of the several States will be made within 30 days of the Bill receiving Royal Assent and further that the next general election for the House of Representatives will be conducted on the basis of the representation entitlement as disclosed by that determination. 
The Government is also taking this opportunity to propose to Parliament that there should be a review of the guide-lines which Distribution Commissioners are required to take into account in their consideration of proposed distributions. These guide-lines are at present set out in section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The problems of geographically large electorates vis-a-vis small electorates has long been acknowledged. 
Given the problems confronting electors and their members in electorates spread over large areas, the Government believes that it would be unreasonable to continue a situation where it is possible for a geographically smaller division to contain less electors than a larger division. In proposing that section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act be amended to contain a guide-line to Distribution Commissioners along these lines, the Government has decided to adopt as a general principle the dividing-line used by the Remuneration Tribunal in its 1 976 report in relation to members allowances, namely, 5 000 square kilometres. The proposed amendment is that section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act shall include a provision that Distribution Commissioners in making any proposed distribution shall ensure that no division with an area of 5 000 square kilometres or more shall have at the time of a redistribution an electoral population which is greater than the electoral population of any division with an area of less than 5 000 square kilometres. To assist consideration of the legislation, there has been circulated an explanatory memorandum giving greater detail in respect of the clauses of each Bill. I commend the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr E.  G.  Whitlam)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have already referred to this Bill in my previous speech. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have already referred to the provisions of this Bill in introducing the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
It would be when the Prime Minister comes from our side of politics but I am not sure whether it would be when the Prime Minister comes from the Opposition Party. The subject of religious sects has been raised in the House before and I have answered questions in relation to it. I have expressed concern to the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. The Commonwealth's area of jurisdiction covering this matter is not wide. It is basically a matter within State jurisdiction and that is why I raised it with the State Attorneys-General. Presumably if the New South Wales Parliament decides to set up an investigating committee the committee ought to have power to investigate both sides of the matter because very serious issues are raised such as the question of religious freedom to which I have referred previously. On the other hand there is the question of the effect these organisations have on young people and on their families. So one would hope that if a committee is set up in a State parliament, as it was in the State of New York in the United States of America, to investigate this sort of matter it will have broad powers. Quite clearly this is a matter that ought to be looked at at the State level. Nevertheless my Department has been looking at the matter and will continue to keep it under review. 
-I have been asked to accept questions on behalf of the Minister for Immigration, who I think is still ill. I am sure we all wish him a speedy recovery. On a question that was raised yesterday and the question that the honourable member has now raised, I point out that the Government's visit visa policy and the procedures followed in implementing that policy are designed to ensure that the many thousands of genuine visitors throughout the world each year who seek to spend a short period in Australia receive their visas with a minimum of formality and delay. At present visit visas are being issued overseas at the rate of approximately 27S 000 per annum. Applicants for visit visas are required to complete a declaration which includes a question relating to any criminal record. The procedure provides that the cases of any applicants who indicate that they have a criminal record should be subjected to special inquiry prior to a visa decision. This applies also where overseas posts consider, on good grounds, that further inquiries should be made in relation to applicants who may have declared that they have no record. 
The need for special inquiry arises only in isolated instances and this means that the many thousands of genuine visitor applicants are able to receive their visas without impediment. It would be unthinkable, even if it were practicable, that visa issues should be withheld in respect of all applicants to enable detailed checks concerning possible criminal records to be conducted. Individual cases do arise from time to time in which it is learned that a visitor who has entered Australia has a criminal record which he failed to disclose at the time of his application for a visa. The immigration powers enable the Minister to deal appropriately with any such cases which come to notice. As honourable members will be aware, the person referred to in questions asked yesterday has since been asked to leave. I gather he has left the country. 
in reply- This debate has been very interesting and I think very productive because there have been contributions from both sides of the House without the customary abuse that accompanies a discussion on electoral matters. I can remember that the debates which took place in 1975 were somewhat more heated than the debate which we have had in this House today. It is proposed that we go into Committee on this legislation, but there are a number of matters with which I want to deal before we do that so that I can answer some of the questions raised by honourable members. 
Honourable members opposite have asked the question: Why do we need the legislation? Obviously it is unthinkable that in a democracy we should not put into our legislation the basic steps by which the democratic process will come into operation. In the Commonwealth Electoral Act we provide for redistribution. In the Representation Act we provide for the determination of numbers. In the Census and Statistics Act we provide for the counting of the people of the Commonwealth. Those are all matters that have to be dealt with by legislation. Although in a sense one could have a redistribution on an executive basis, at the same time obviously it is highly desirable that our people know what the Distribution Commissioners are about. What they are about, of course, is implementing the provisions that this Parliament will lay down in this legislation. 
The Representation Act, the Census and Statistics Act and the Act that we are debating are a trilogy which will implement the decision of the High Court. That decision has made it quite clear that there is a need to amend the existing relevant legislation in order to bring it into accord with the Constitution as it was interpreted in the 2 High Court decisions. For instance, although the High Court said that it was enough just to rely on section 24 of the Constitution, there is a need to do something about section 10 of the Representation Act and the amending legislation in fact does that. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  seemed to get some glee from the fact that perhaps the Chief Justice had approved the legislation of 1964. I only wish that the Leader of the Opposition had looked at the Act of 1964. Had he done so he would have found that it was introduced on 15 October 1964. He will find also that the Chief Justice left this place on about 27 April 1 964. So I guess, as usual, the barb was in his tongue because of things that he can never forget. 
Much of the debate has turned on the amendment to section 19 and the amendment to section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. For instance, section 19 deals with the principle in relation to 5000 square kilometres and the other section deals with redistribution being forbidden, in effect, because of the quota coming out of balance within a period of 7 years. The attack in this regard has been based on the principle of one vote one value. Obviously that is not a principle which is practicable in any sense whatsoever. I want to demonstrate as quickly as I can, first of all, that you cannot apply the principle, that the Constitution does not require it, and that the Labor Party has never adhered to it. When you add those 3 things together, I am not sure what you get- I will not call it humbug or hypocrisy- but let us just put the principle of one vote one value in its place, because to try to espouse it in a logical way just is not possible. 
For instance, the Constitution itself belies the principle of one vote one value. Section 24 of the Constitution provides a method of dividing States in proportion to the respective populations and it allows the quota system. If after the appropriate division is made there remains greater than one half of the quota, one more member can be chosen in that State. Quite clearly, if the remaining number is less than one half of the quota- in other words, if it amounts to only 49 per cent- the State concerned does not get another member. If the remaining number represents5 1 per cent of the quota, the State concerned does get another member. It does not take a great mathematician to work out that that system immediately takes one away from the one vote one value principle. Then again, section 29 of the Act, which deals with representation and the subdivision of boundaries and so on for the States, allows allegiance and reference to State law. If the founding fathers had intended that one vote one value be written into the Constitution, they would hardly have left it in that form. Of course, the Commonwealth Parliament did not legislate for a certain period, and the State laws applied. 
The reference in section 24 of the Constitution is to the people of the Commonwealth, not the electors of the Commonwealth. The High Court has recently re-endorsed that. The term 'the people of the Commonwealth' means all the people of the Commonwealth and not just those chosen to be electors. It says that the House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth. Of course, that does not mean that it is chosen by people of unsound mind or by babes in arms. It is a political expression but, at the same time, when you come to the numbers and the nexus in section 24, you find that the term the people of the Commonwealth' does include all those people, because honourable members in this chamber do represent all the people in a very real sense. Those who are given the privilege of voting do so on their own behalf and on behalf of the people in the electorate. Therefore in that sense the Constitution does not espouse the principle of one vote one value. We know that each of the original States was to have at least 5 members of Parliament and we know that Tasmania divides up in a certain way. So again you cannot have one vote one value; it just is not possible. It is not written into the Consitution. 
Of course, there are certain other practical effects. The senators are chosen by the people but there is an equal number of senators in each State. I do not have to take honourable members through the figures, but it can be seen that again you do not get one vote one value. If you go through the quotas of electors - 
The honourable member for Robertson should not leave. I have something for him in a moment. If we look at the quotas based on the latest figures we find that ley are different for the various States. So again you do not get one vote one value. Really the Labor Partyhas never espoused the principle of one vote one value except in this chamber when its members take part in debates on electoral matters. Let me read to honourable members the terms of the 1974 referendum. I do not know that Labor Party members yet understand what they were espousing at that time. They proposed an amendment to section 29 of the Constitution in these terms: 
The numbers ascertained in respect of the several divisions of a State by dividing the number of people in each division by the number of members to be chosen for the division shall be, as nearly as practicable, the same. 
In other words, the purpose was to divide the electorate into equal numbers. Of course we know why that was proposed. If it was carried out in that way the result would be more city seats and fewer country seats. The Labor Party did it in that way to instal itself, it thought, in power. That was not one vote one value; far from it. That system was a complete departure from that principle. So the Labor Party has not espoused the principle of one vote one value in terms of what it has done outside this chamber. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member of Adelaide has been constantly interjecting for the last few minutes as the Attorney-General has been - 
In addition, we have the 1975 redistribution, which reveals its own facts. In that redistribution one finds some very interesting figures. The Leader of the Opposition has spoken in this debate and has espoused the principle again of one vote, one value. But listen to this: In the 1975 redistribution that was brought forward in this Parliament the electorate of Gwydir had 67 560 people and Werriwa 59 070 people- a difference of 12 per cent. Is this an indication of one vote, one value? Ralph Hunt, with one of the largest electorates in his State, had 67 560 people; the then Prime Minister had 59 070 people in his electorate. Where is the principle of one vote, one value in that? 
I am only saying this because I believe a lot of nonsense is spoken and espoused around the principle of one vote, one value. I am not suggesting that a principle is not involved in this, but lt is a very broad principle, for the simple reason that it is just not practicable to achieve the principle of one vote, one value. Honourable members opposite go on discussing it and talking about it, but all the time they are not able to aim for it. Perhaps it could be achieved in a fixed agrarian society, but it just cannot be achieved in the society we have in 1 977. 
Quite obviously, in providing for a redistribution there must be a time lag between the time the numbers of the people are counted and the time they are divided up. We all know that it takes something like 12 months to have a redistribution and if one is to be held in a 3-year period it has to commence no later than the end of the first year. Of course, that is what these amendments seek to provide for in a practical way. Nothing is dictated by the Constitution in relation to this but, at the same time, by the time an election is held after a redistribution it may well be found that the precise numbers upon which electorates have been divided up have changed because of population changes. 
I think it is fair to say that the Labor Party members have tended to adopt a rotten borough approach to this, particularly in their attacks in this Parliament. All I want to say about that is this: If they go to the figures for the redistribution of federal electorates they will find a fairly good record. They can go back through the figures. They have been quoted already and I do not want to quote them again. But they do show a reasonable adherence to the 10 per cent principle. It is only in more recent years, with a more volatile moving population, that the distribution gets out of kilter more quickly. We need to get away from this rotten borough idea in terms of the Commonwealth redistribution. The redistribution system has been reasonably fair. Even when one takes the figures in relation to the totality of numbers and votes they tend to reflect that the party that has the greatest number of votes usually is in power. 
What are important in all this are the criteria that are laid down in section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. This Bill- the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill- purports to introduce another criterion in relation to large divisions and small divisions. Quite clearly, it is fair enough to take into account the size of electorates. If I might suggest, it is fair enough to require that the electorate of Gwydir, for instance, which covers more than 5000 square kilometres, should not have more electors to service than Werriwa. Of course, that is what clause 7 of this Bill would achieve. I have given the figures for those 2 electorates under the Labor Party's attempted redistribution in 1975. This clause is intended to deal with that situation. It is an eminently fair clause. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said that the role of a member of Parliament was to come here and to talk, but also to speak to his electors. I suggest to honourable members that it is fair enough that factors such as this should be taken into account in determining the numbers in and size of electorates. That is what the amendment to section 1 9 is aimed at doing. 
Something was said about the 7-year period provision that this Bill seeks to include in section 25 of the Act. We are all familiar with the arguments concerning this. But just to make it clear, despite the fact that the Executive can call for an earner redistribution if it wishes, the amendment is aimed to give stability and to make sure that people grow accustomed to their member and get to know him; that they are not confused by change at every election. This is highly desirable. We have had suggestions from honourable members that in the country there is a much more personal relationship between members and their constituents. But constituents in city electorates get to know their members also. It is a good idea for that situation not to be disturbed too often. Therefore, this is not an attempt to entrench provisions or politicians, or to require that a distribution take place no earlier than within 7 years. It is a method of ensuring adequate, proper and reasonable electoral representation. Of course, if the Executive sees some problem or if some event occurs that requires redistribution, it can have one at an earlier stage. 
The other provision that has been referred to is the addition of sections 25a to the Act, which relates to elections at large.  Senator Withers,  the Minister for Administrative Services in the other place, indicated that he was concerned about this matter and thought that the Electoral Act ought to contain specific provisions in order to deal with elections at large. He indicated to the Senate that he was working on this matter. After all, the latest decision in the High Court was given only a fortnight ago. In due course the Minister will bring forward measures to govern the provisions of proposed new section 25a, relating to elections at large. That is to deal with the unlikely event of such an election occurring. If it does occur in the meantime, it would seem that under the Constitution such an election would have to be held in a way which added up to the description 'members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth', as contained in section 24 of the Act. No doubt that election, which could be subject to State laws which might to some extent be applicable, would be prescribed by the Executive. But this would not be desirable in this area. One can readily conceive of the method being otherwise than is provided for in legislation. Section 25a, one hopes, will be supplemented in the near future by provisions which will govern an election at large. Of course, the thought of an election at large is not something which fills any of us with any joy. It is a remote possibility that one would be held, but it is something that the Minister for Administrative Services has well in mind. One hopes that it will be dealt with in the near future. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I draw the attention of the honourable member to the  Hansard  report of the other place in which the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  indicated that the question of procedure for election at large was under study. The Minister proposes in due course to bring the matter before Cabinet and hopefully there will be legislation introduced later this year. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) No. I am informed that  Mr. Withnall  agreed to prepare a report on South Australian Acts in force in the Territory for which he was to be paid a fee. He carried out some work on the project but he has not submitted a report and no fee has been paid to him. He has indicated that due to other commitments he is unable to continue with this work. I am currently considering other means of having the work completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (7) This question was placed on the notice paper prior to a bill to amend the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1 976 being introduced into the parliament. When introducing the amending Bill on 7 December 1976 I explained the reasons for the measure in my second reading speech(Hansard, p.3384). Since the passage of the amending legislation the orders which had been previously made under the Act have been revoked and fresh orders have been made in their place. I understand that proceedings on the Letter of Request addressed to the Supreme Court of New South Wales have been adjourned. As far as I am aware the Supreme Court has not made any order following upon a consideration of the Letter of Request. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions of the Crimes Act and Public Service Regulations referred to in the question are being considered in the course of the current review of the Secret Commissions Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, asked on 15 February 1977, is as follows: 
The Criminal Injuries (Compensation) Ordinance 1975 (No. 19 of 1976) was assented to on 8 April 1976. 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I am informed that a company called Vinnell Corporation Australia Pry Ltd was incorporated in New South Wales on or about 17 February 1960 and that the principal objects of the company were to carry on and conduct a construction, building and general engineering quarrying and contracting business and to engage in the manufacture and retail of tools and instruments for these purposes. 
I am also informed that this company was struck off the register on 18 May 1973 pursuant to sub-section 308 (4) of the Companies Act, 1961 (New South Wales) as no longer carrying on business or being in operation. 
and (7) Inquiries have failed to disclose any connection between the Vinnell Corporation and any Commonwealth Government Department, authority or agency. 
I am not aware of any association between activities of the Vinnell Corporation in Australia and any United States military or foreign policy instrumentality. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not think it appropriate in answer to a parliamentary question, to undertake a detailed exposition of the extent to which the N.S.W. Acts and regulations in question are continued in force in the Australian Capital Territory. I refer the Honourable Member to the discussion of the legislation to be found at pages56-58 of the 'Report on the Review of New South Wales Acts in force in the Australian Capital Territory' published by the Law Reform Commission of the A.C.T. in 1974. That report identified the Public Instruction Act 1880 and the Free Education Act 1906 as being N.S.W. laws that in some respects are continued in force in the Australian Capital Territory to the extent that they are applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Does not arise. 
Department of Health: Expenditure in Division of Macarthur (Question No. 1828) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The sum of $500 was handed to  Mr M.  Cavanough in the Office of the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor in the Australian Capital Territory on 19 May 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I understand that certain provisions of the Canadian Borrowers and Depositors Protection Bill are relevant to the work of the Credit Laws Committee. Those provisions will be brought to the attention of the Committee for its consideration. 
Not to my knowledge. 
-I think the question I answered, I answered on behalf of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, who was then ill. The answer I gave was based on the information that I had received. I cannot assist the honourable gentleman in regard to the detail of the question that he asks. I will refer it to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I have no doubt that he will give an answer. 
-I have answered the question. 
Reports have appeared in the newspapers and on television with regard to literature which was supposed to have been on sale under the counter in I think New South Wales and Victoria. I have seen some literature. I do not know whether it is identical with the literature on sale, but if it is identical it is literature which bears the mark of having been produced overseas. It is literature which represents children in various sexual poses. Honourable members will be aware that the basic policy of both the Government and the Opposition is that adults should be entitled to hear and see what they wish. In the past films have been brought into this country pursuant to regulation 4a of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations and they are classified by the Film Censorship Board. Literature that is presented comes to officers of my Department. If it is indecent or obscene they will prohibit it under regulation 4A. 
I have caused inquiries to be made of officers of my Department and they have told me that, as far as they could ascertain, literature of this character would be prohibited. From time to time articles of this description come before them and they prohibit them. If such items are on sale in Sydney or Melbourne and if they come from overseas, according to my inquiries they have come in illegally. It is very difficult to police the import of articles of this character. They may come in in somebody's brief case or in a bag as well as in commercial quantities. If they come in they can then be used as the basis for the production of literature for disposal. However in New South Wales and Victoria, and perhaps in other States, I understand all literature, even literature of this character, is available but if it is of this particular character it will be marked for direct sale and I gather that it has to be put under the counter. 
Having looked at the literature which is alleged to be of the same character I have certainly formed the view that it is literature that ought not to be available anywhere in Australia because it exploits young children. If any honourable member thinks I am harsh in that regard, I invite him to look at some of the literature. I have some of it in my office. Following representations from New South Wales, I propose to call a meeting of ministers dealing with censorship, to see what steps can be taken to impose some limit on this type of material in the States and Territories so that material that would be prohibited at the point of entry would also be prohibited from sale in shops around the country, whether they be sex shops, newsagents or any other kind of shop. I hope that meeting will take place at an early date after a meeting of officers has been held. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to supplement an answer that I gave earlier in relation to a question about the issue of a visa to a person with a criminal record. I apprehend, from certain interjections that were made when I concluded that answer, that the Leader of the Opposition might have thought that I was responsible for the Commonwealth Police. I will refer to the Minister for Administrative Services, who is responsible for the Commonwealth Police, that part of the question which relates to the Commonwealth Police. I, of course, as Attorney-General, am not responsible for the Commonwealth Police. 
! take it that leave has been granted,  Mr Speaker. 
-With the indulgence of the House I would like to point out that there was one part of the address of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  with which I did not agree completely. 
-I agreed with the rest of it. I did not agree with the honourable member's reference to victimless crime. There is a lot of discussion both abroad and here about victimless crime, but that tends to be a misnomer because it suggests that there are no victims. An examination of the situations reveals that quite often there are victims in these so-called victimless crimes. In the case of drug offences, prostitution, pornography and in many other areas there is a victim. 
-I had not finished,  Mr Speaker.  I want to say by way of information to honourable members- that is why I rose- that recently a high level report produced in the United States, which I will make available to honourable members, looked into the costs and the effects of the legalisation of the so-called victimless crimes. The view expressed in that report was that in relation to prostitution and pornography, I think it was, the effect of legalisation was not to decrease the involvement of organised crime in those areas but in fact to increase it. This is a very troubled area. I am not mentioning it simply because pornography is an issue at the moment; it is an area in which we need to analyse the social effects of the activities and this legislation. I anticipate that in the next year a seminar will be conducted by the Institute of Criminology which will call together experts to consider the social effects of, for instance, matters such as pornography. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is directed to meeting 2 problems that have arisen in Australia and elsewhere in recent years. Thus, the first objective of the Bill is to prohibit persons preparing for or engaging in incursions into foreign countries. The second is to prohibit the recruiting in Australia of persons to serve in armed forces in a foreign country. 
As to the first- prohibition of foreign incursionstwice in recent years persons from Australia have carried out incursions overseas. The Government takes the view that circumstances in overseas countries and Australia make possible the repetition of these activities. The Government takes the view that it should do what it can by legislative means to discourage them. While under existing law- provided information is obtained early enough- some limited action can be taken to prevent these activities achieving their ultimate objective, past events have shown that existing law is not adequate. In all the circumstances, including the need to preserve international relations, there is a need for legislation to deal specifically with the problem, including preparations in Australia for these activities. 
To this end, clause 6 will prohibit incursions into foreign countries for the purpose of engaging in hostile activities. This clause will apply to Australian citizens, persons ordinarily resident in Australia and persons who at any time during the period of one year immediately preceding the commission of the offence were present in Australia for a purpose connected with the offence. In regard to the last category of persons I mention that persons meeting this description participated in previous incursion episodes. Such persons would have sufficient connection with Australia in respect of the prohibited activity to warrant the application to them of this provision of the Australian criminal law. To a substantial extent this provision will prohibit acts of terrorism by Australians in other countries. 
Clause 7 prohibits preparations for incursions into foreign countries. In relation to acts done in Australia, the clause applies to all persons; in the case of acts done outside Australia, the clause applies to the same persons as clause 6. Clause 8 prohibits the recruiting of persons to join organisations engaged in hostile activities against foreign governments. 
The seriousness with which the Australian Government regards these matters is reflected in the heavy penalties provided for breaches of these provisions. Thus, the penalty for a breach of clause 6 will be 14 years imprisonment. The penalty for making preparations for these acts of terrorism will be 10 years. It should be noted that the consent of the Attorney-General will be required for any prosecution for a breach of the Act. As a further indication of the seriousness with which the Government views activities of this nature, I mention that the Government contemplates the making of a proclamation under section 27 of the Crimes Act prohibiting unauthorised military style training and drilling in the use of firearms. 
As to the second main purpose- prohibition of recruiting- many countries including Australia have been concerned by the recruiting of, or attempts to recruit persons in their territory for service as mercenaries in foreign forces. A United Kingdom statute, the Foreign Enlistment Act, in force since 1870 and applicable to the British dominions, dealt with enlistment by British subjects in foreign forces but in terms inappropriate in today's circumstances. The United Kingdom Government established a Committee of Privy Counsellors under the chairmanship of Lord Diplock to examine the problem. The Committee recommended the abolition of the offence of enlisting while abroad as a mercenary and of leaving the United Kingdom in order to do so. The reasons given by the Committee for this view were: 
First, for reasons we have given, we do not think it practicable or just to try to define an offence of enlisting as a mercenary in such a way that guilt would depend upon proof by the prosecution of a particular motive as actuating the accused to do so. Secondly, a penal prohibition sought to be imposed by the State upon what an individual does abroad involves a restriction on the liberty of the individual which we think can only be justified on compelling grounds of public interest. Thirdly, the practical difficulties of proving such an offence would mean that there could be very few successful prosecutions; and the chances of convicting the accused would depend not so much on his actual guilt as on his exceptional bad luck in there being available to the  prosecution  in his case sufficient evidence to convict him on his trial in this country. 
The United Kingdom Committee, however, recommended new legislation to prohibit recruitment of persons to take up service as mercenaries abroad including prohibition of offers of employment as a mercenary, publishing information as to how or where to apply for such employment or to reach the place where it is available, or making any payment or taking part in any arrangement to enable or assist a person to do so. The law in the United States prohibits recruitment of any persons as mercenaries within the United States but does not prohibit a citizen or other person in the United States leaving the country to enlist in a foreign military service. 
Independently of the United Kingdom inquiry, the Australian Government had conducted its own examination which produced the same broad conclusion as the Diplock Committee, namely, that it was not appropriate to attempt to prohibit enlistment outside Australia but it was desirable to control recruitment within 
Australia of mercenaries for service in foreign forces. To implement this conclusion, clause 9 of the Bill will make it an offence for a person to recruit, advertise in respect of recruiting, facilitate or promote recruitment, of another person to serve in or with an armed force in a foreign country, whether government, insurgent or otherwise. 
In order to meet circumstances where it is in the  interests of  the defence or international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment in Australia of persons to serve in particular armed forces, the Minister will be authorised to exempt recruitment for such forces. However, the legislation will not prevent an Australian from going overseas and enlisting in armed forces in another country. The Government recognises that occasions will arise where persons will wish to enlist and serve in the armed forces of another country because of a deeply held personal belief. To prohibit this generally would be an infringement of individual freedom. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The Government is not giving a low priority to law reform in the Australian Capital Territory. As I hope the honourable member will know, my colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory has taken some steps in relation to introducing the results of the breathalyser report of the Law Reform Commission. I understand that further steps will be taken in the near future. This is outside my portfolio but I can inform the honourable gentleman of that fact. 
In relation to the other matter, I understand that a question did arise in the Magistrates Court yesterday about the independence of the magistracy. Last year an ordinance was prepared and it was presented to the Legislative Assembly. The final printing of the ordinance was completed yesterday. That ordinance should become law on Friday. What happened was that some of the magistrates themselves raised questions about the terms of the ordinance and the nature of their own independence under the ordinance. The magistrates seemed to take the view that because they were independent they should be treated as judges. I take a slightly different view but I did listen to their representations. I hope that the ordinance will become law on Friday. Any questions relating to the independence of the magistracy will then be resolved. 
The honourable members for the Australian Capital Territory are very active today. The Commonwealth will defend these proceedings. In relation to the matter brought by the northern State of Queensland the defence has already been put in and the Commonwealth will uphold the validity of the legislation. So far as Western Australia 's challenge is concerned the defence has not yet been put in but I can assure honourable members that when it goes in it will also uphold the validity of the legislation that allows the honourable member for 
Canberra and others to sit in this House. It is anticipated that the hearing of this matter will come before the High Court early in May in the Melbourne sittings. 
I have received representations from honourable members from both Territories to have in effect the right to be represented and some sort of legal aid in relation to their representation before the High Court. I shall give consideration to that matter. Whether they really need it of course is another matter because of the fact that the High Court will have before it the Commonwealth Solicitor-General putting arguments in favour of the validity of the legislation. However, it may be that the Crown Solicitor could be asked by me under section 55e of the Judiciary Act to represent them. I shall give consideration to providing at least junior counsel to appear on their behalf. 
Needless to say, I am concerned about the delays occurring in the Family Court. Honourable members will be aware that since the beginning of 1976 the numbers of applications received by the Family Court have been running at a much greater rate than those received under the Matrimonial Causes Act. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

If honourable members opposite will listen they will hear the answer to the question. During the major part of last year applications for divorce lodged with the Family Court were running at approximately 1000 a week. That figure is for the whole of Australia. Towards the end of last year the number fell to approximately 600 or 700 a week. Early last year I anticipated that the work load of the Court might well fall but it appears that since the beginning of this year applications lodged with the Family Court have increased, and they are now running- without being completely accurate- at between 850 and 950 a week. That is a disturbing indication that the number of divorce applications is not abating at all but in fact is remaining at a fairly constant level. 
Honourable members will also be aware that at the present time judges of the Family Court have to be appointed for life. Already 28 judges have been appointed to the Court and I am proposing to put recommendations to Cabinet soon for the appointment of another 2 judges to the Family Court. Honourable members will also know that the regulations under the Family Law Act restrict to twenty-nine the number of judges who can be appointed. I am currently conducting a complete review of the judicial work load of the Court and of the need in the immediate future for additional judges to be appointed to the Family Court. I anticipate that the number will have to be increased maybe to thirty-nine or forty judges in all in the next six to twelve months. 
At the same time I want to stress that the solution to the delays occurring in the Family 
Court is not to be found only in the appointment of additional judges. I have pointed that out to the judges themselves. There is a real need for research to be done by those involved in the family law area as to the appropriate way in which this work can be done. I am not satisfied that the solution is to be found simply in the appointment of additional judges. For instance, let me point out that the 2 judges attached to the Parramatta Family Court are doing as much work as are 4 judges in another part of Australia. That is not to suggest that those other 4 judges are not working fully and up to the limit. The procedures adopted in the Parramatta Family Court are different from those used in other courts. One of the things that needs to be looked at is the use of the procedures adopted in other pans of the jurisdiction. I can assure honourable members that the matter is under review. I am concerned about the delays. I shall be acting in the immediate future to put before Cabinet proposals designed to alleviate the situation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 9 March I informed the House that, concurrent with the Referendums to be held on 2 1 May 1977 in respect of the 4 proposed laws to alter the Constitution which were passed by this House on 17 February 1977 and by the Senate on 25 February, the Government intends that a poll be conducted to assist it in choosing the tune for a national song. The purpose of this Bill, which is a simple machinery measure, is to ensure that there is no legal objection to using for this poll, the same ballot-boxes and polling booths as will be used for the Constitutional Referendums. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a major measure of reform. Its basic purpose is to codify and clarify the rights and duties of citizens and the Commonwealth Police, when involved in the process of criminal investigation. Although it will initially apply only to the Commonwealth Police provision is made for application by regulations of its provisions to other employees of the Commonwealth engaged in criminal investigation. The Bill should not be seen in isolation. It is part of a comprehensive review of the laws of the Commonwealth which closely touch the human rights of the people of Australia. 
In the life of this Parliament important steps have already been taken or foreshadowed which protect and advance human rights and it is appropriate to refer to but a few. They include: The Administrative Appeals Tribunal has been established and has begun its operations. The Administrative Review Council has been appointed and begun its vital work to review the administrative laws and procedures of the Commonwealth. The Ombudsman Act 1976 has been passed and last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced the appointment of Professor Jack Richardson to be the first Commonwealth Ombudsman. On 9 December 1976 1 announced that the Government had authorised me to prepare legislation for a freedom of information Bill. It is hoped that this Bill giving citizens a right of access in appropriate cases to government records will be introduced in the present sittings of the Parliament. 
References have been given by me to the Law Reform Commission upon a number of matters which are vital to the human rights of all Australians. A reference for a major review of the laws protecting privacy in our community was given last year and is well advanced. A reference to reform defamation laws, so vital for striking the right balance between freedom of speech, on the one hand, and the maintenance of honour and reputation on the other hand was also given to the Law Reform Commission last year. Work on this copy is also well advanced and a preliminary paper distributed by the Commission has secured a positive and favourable response. I have also asked the Commission to report upon the question of the standing to sue in federal courts and courts exercising federal jurisdiction and within recent weeks, in consultation with my colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs (  Mr Viner),  I signed a reference relating to Aboriginal customary law; a matter of great importance especially to the Aboriginal people of this country. In  Her  Majesty's Speech this month it was announced that the Government intended to establish a human rights commission. Preparation of legislation for this purpose is well advanced and discussions will take place with the States on the matter in the near future. The aim of the legislation will be to give effective machinery on a national basis to protect and advance human rights in this country. These steps reflect the Government's concern with the rights of the individual and the need to update the law and legal protective machinery so that these rights can be asserted in the present age. There are other initiatives to which I could refer but it is enough to refer to those mentioned to demonstrate the concern of this Government with the individual, the ordinary man and woman in our community. This concern is nowhere more vital than in the area of criminal investigation and police procedures, which is the subject of this Bill. 
The Bill is especially relevant for the Government's stated intention to establish a human rights commission, a basic purpose of which will be to ensure that our federal law complies with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The International Covenant is itself part of an international movement to protect human rights, which originated after the Second World War and was foreshadowed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights agreed upon early in the life of the United Nations Organisation. The International Covenant in many of its Articles demonstrates the vital importance of adequately protecting the individual when he is faced by authority. It is in this circumstance that the individual is at his greatest disadvantage. The measure of the fairness of a criminal justice system is the manner in which it deals with an accused when he is under suspicion or arrest. It is therefore natural and entirely to be expected that the International Covenant refers to the rights of a person in this circumstance. Article 9, for example, contains the provision: 
Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person. No one shall be subject to arbitary arrest or detention. No one shall be deprived of his liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedures as are established by law. 
Everyone who is arrested shall be informed, at the time of arrest, of the reasons for his arrest and shall be promptly informed of any charges against him. 
Article 10 requires that: 
All persons deprived of their liberty shall be treated with humanity and with respect for the inherent dignity of the human person. 
Article 14 contains a number of provisions entitling a person, subject to any criminal charge against him, to minimum guarantees in procedures for the determination of that charge. They include: 3. (a) To be informed promptly and in detail in a language which he understands of the nature and cause of the charge against him; 
to have adequate time and facilities for the preparation of his defence and to communicate with counsel of his own choosing; . . . 
to have the free assistance of an interpreter if he cannot understand or speak the language used in court; 
not to be compelled to testify against himself or confess guilt. 
There are many other provisions in the International Covenant which are relevant to this Bill which is a practical endeavour to implement the obligations of the Covenant. The influence of the Covenant will be seen in the provisions of the Bill and even in the language adopted by it. The Bill represents a practical attempt to translate into our criminal justice system and the procedures of the Commonwealth Police Force, the standards of the Covenant. With the deposit of a sufficient number of ratifications, the International Covenant came into force as part of international law in 1976. Australia, with a delegation led by Attorney-General Bowen, was a party to its preparation. It represents the standard which civilised communities around the world agree should govern the civil and political rights of their people. 
At the same time, it is important that any attempt to translate the language of the Covenant, which is of necessity language of generality, into specific legal provisions should be done with a full knowledge of the tradition of our criminal justice system. It is a system, inherited from the common law, in which we can take pride and which has contributed much to the standards of criminal justice which the international community now embraces. The real genius of the common law was its capacity in many instances to provide protection to the individual in the face of the organised forces of government. The Judges Rules are a basic example. We should not, therefore, underestimate too readily the rights which our own system already guarantees. At the same time, we cannot afford to be self-satisfied about it and it is entirely proper and necessary that, from time to time, we should subject our system to vigorous scrutiny. We should especially do so against standards accepted by the international community. This Bill must therefore be seen in the context both of the important initiatives taken by the Government in Australia to advance and protect human rights and against the background of the International Covenant. It exemplifies the approach which this Government takes in this field. Basic human rights should not be left in vague general terms. To be effective, they should be translated into specific, clear and simple obligations and privileges. This Bill endeavours to do that. 
This is a significant piece of legislation for another reason. It is the first occasion a Bill based upon a report of the Australian Law Reform Commission has been introduced into the Parliament. It is apt to repeat what I have frequently said. There is little point in me, as AttorneyGeneral, referring matters to the Law Reform 
Commission if the results are ignored. There is no logic in law reform bodies producing reports and spending large amounts of public money in the process if the reports are to lie unread, gathering dust on ministerial shelves. A law reform commission, which is mere window-dressing to make a government appear progressive, can have no justification whatsoever. It was for that reason that the Commission's report was referred to the Government Committee on Law and Government for its consideration and views. Although the Government had decided not to proceed with the proposal to establish an Australia Police Force, much valuable work had been done by the Commission which should not be lost. The Law and Government Committee supported this view. It expressed the opinion that the Government should proceed to implement the second report of the Commission on Criminal Investigation. However, it proposed that the first report on Complaints Against Police should be reviewed because it was closely related to the organisation of the proposed Australia Police and might need to be reconsidered for its applicability to separate police forces. I have, therefore, asked the Commission to review its report on Complaints Against the Police in the light of the Government's decision and of other developments. Already, the Commission has produced a Working Paper for this review and I expect to receive a supplementary report from the Commission on the subject of Complaints Against Police in the near future. 
The report on criminal investigation did not, however, contemplate any particular police force organisation. It is for that reason the Government decided to proceed with legislation to implement the report. The Bill now introduced follows substantially the measure proposed by the Law Reform Commission. There is one major exception, namely that a dissenting view expressed by  Mr F.  G. Brennan, Q.C, now the Honourable  Mr Justice  Brennan, has been preferred by the Government. This relates to police powers following restraint and follows more closely the traditional approach of the common law to the powers of police in this situation than did the majority view expressed by the Commission. Therefore, the rules formulated by the United Kingdom judges in 1918 to provide a guide to police interrogating suspects, which are the rules applied by Australian courts, are given statutory force. Save in this respect, the Bill represents, substantially, the implementation of the Commission's majority report. 
It is most important in the view of the Government and in the view of the Commission that its reports should be considered by the Parliament. My colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  has already announced the decision of the Government to present legislation, based on the Commission's other substantive report on alcohol, drugs and driving, to the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory for its consideration. It can, therefore, be seen that the Government is giving prompt and proper attention to the Commission's reports. I am sure that this Bill will be only the first of many measures by which the Parliament is aided to modernise, reform and simplify the laws of the Commonwealth by the reports of the Law Reform Commission. 
In the preparation of the report on criminal investigation not only the Commission itself was involved but quite a number of persons with experience specially relevant to the questions involved participated as consultants. The Commission did not simply prepare its report behind closed doors but sat in all parts of the country including all capital cities. The list of persons and organisations that made written and oral submissions, as set out in Appendix A to the report, bears witness to the major attempt by the Commission to ascertain the views on reform of this area of the law held by police, the professions, community organisations and the public. The report also records the private discussions which the Commission had with members of the judiciary. 
Nevertheless, in spite of these extensive inquiries, the Commission suggested that its report should be regarded as an interim report so that further reaction could be elicited before Parliament was invited to act. The report has received a considerable degree of attention and the reaction of the public and both the practising and academic sectors of the legal profession has been generally favourable. 
In the task of preparing the present legislation, the Government had the benefit of a draft Bill attached to the Commission's report but it was necessary to depart in a number of respects from this draft Bill, largely in order to incorporate the minority view of  Mr Justice  Brennan. These modifications have been discussed with the  Chairman  of the Commission and  Mr Justice  Brennan and the Bill attempts to reflect the results of those discussions. 
In its preparation, an endeavour has been made to strike a balance between the community's needs for effective law enforcement and the need to preserve and respect basic human rights. The Government recognises these competing interests and has decided to allow the Bill to remain on the table for sufficient period to ensure adequate public consideration by all interested segments of the community of its terms. If, in the light of ensuing public comment and criticism, it appears that the measure does not adequately protect the citizen or, on the other hand, interferes unduly with proper police investigation, the Government will be prepared to make the necessary amendments to it. At the same time, an attempt has been made in the course of its preparation to ensure that a proper balance is maintained. 
A law on criminal investigation must not be a law to protect criminals and stifle the police forces in their important role of criminal law enforcement. Crime is too rife in our community to impair the basic efficiency of our police. At the same time the basic rights and freedoms of the individual citizens in our democracy must be preserved. 
I now deal with the major reforms that will be effected by the Bill. There are ten I would like to mention. They are: 
A person held in custody will be given a specific right to be assisted by a lawyer. 
Strict criteria will be laid down for arrest without warrant and the taking of fingerprints will only be permitted for identification purposes. 
Restrictions will be imposed on the use of force, including firearms, for the purpose of arrests. 
Safeguarding provisions will be introduced as to the identification of suspects by identification parades and other procedures to ensure that injustices are not thereby committed. 
To ensure that, in the interrogation of persons suspected of committing an offence, the rights of the suspect are not infringed and to reduce to the minimum disputes as to the accuracy of records of such interviews, provisions will be made requiring that such interviews be tape recorded or be conducted in the presence of an independent third party and reduced to writing or, if neither of these courses is practicable in the particular circumstances, a written record of the interview be verified by an independent third party as soon as possible after it is made. 
Restrictions will be placed on the questioning of Aboriginals except in the presence of a prisoner's friend ' and on the questioning of persons not fluent in English except in the presence of an interpreter. These provisions are similar to some of the provisions contained in a private member's Bill already introduced into the Senate by  Senator Bonner.  They are designed to recognise the need for special assistance for Aboriginals when being subjected to interrogation on criminal matters. 
Substantial alterations are made to the system of police bail, including the spelling out of criteria to be applied by the police in making decisions as to the grant or refusal of bail; provision will also be made entitling a person refused bail by the police to appeal immediately to a magistrate, if necessary by telephone. 
The police will be given the power to require persons to identify themselves where they may be able to assist police in inquiries in relation to an offence and a reciprocal power is also to be given to citizens in those circumstances to require the policy to identify themselves. 
General search warrants are to be abolished and specific provision will be made for the granting of search warrants, detailing the situations in which searches may be conducted without warrant and providing for obtaining a warrant over the telephone. 
In a prosecution for an offence, the onus will be on the prosecution to justify the admission of evidence obtained in contravention of any of the procedures or requirements laid down in the legislation. 
Although there have been a large number of reports dealing with particular aspects of criminal investigation there are, so far as I am aware, only two other reports within the Commonwealth of Nations which have lately sought to deal with the whole body of criminal investigation, from first contact of the police with the accused up to the trial stage. It must be stressed that this Bill and the Commission's report deal with the process in a comprehensive way. The report of the Criminal Law and Penal Methods Reform Committee of South Australia on criminal investigation and the Thomson Report on criminal procedure in Scotland are the only equivalent efforts to review procedures of police investigation in recent years but neither report has, to date, been implemented. There have, of course, been particular reports dealing with special aspects of the subject. The proposals for reform of particular procedures have been carefully weighed and are reflected in the Bill. But the advantage of dealing with the whole procedure, from first police contact until the criminal trial, is that it permits the development of an approach to the relationship that should exist between citizens, including the accused, the police and the courts in the procedures involved in investigating crime. If the relationship is defined it is more likely to be understood and room for disputation, which often occurs in these matters, should be diminished considerably. 
Although a large number of reports have been produced and many reforms proposed, I think it is fair to say that this Bill represents the most significant legislative initiative in this field to be taken in the Commonwealth of Nations at least since the last War and probably since the establishment of modern police forces. It comes to grips with a whole variety of difficult issues upon which there has been much writing, widespread dissatisfaction but little legislative action. 
The Bill is also noteworthy because it represents an attempt by the law to catch up with the developments of science and technology and to call them in aid, both of the police and of the accused, in the process of criminal investigation. But above all, it proposes that these advances which are now available should be brought to the assistance of the administration of justice itself. In the foreword to the Commission's report upon which this Bill is based, the  Chairman  laid stress upon this approach by the Commission. He stated: 
The reforms should be seen as part of a total scheme to modernise and rationalise this area of the law . . . The thrust of the Commission's proposals is towards recognising, controlling and using, in the interest of the accused as well as the authorities, modern technology tape recorders, telephones, telex, computers and copiers. 
When one considers the debates that surround confessional evidence and the time of courts taken to resolve these debates, it is impossible to doubt that some at least of them could have been avoided by the use of tape recording devices. Especially in a large country, such as Australia, and in remote districts, it is diffiult to believe that telephones should not be specifically recognised as appropriate instruments for permitting, indeed encouraging, judicial superintendence over police decisions on bail, searches and so on. Recent cases and other inquiries emphasise the potential for injustices in identification parades. Why should not photography or even film be specifically recognised and required as a means of satisfying the court that the identification procedure was fairly conducted? 
Part of the resistance to the sound recording of confessional evidence is no doubt based upon the objection that it will be cumbersome and unnecessary. Part may be based upon the resistance to change itself. But, just as the law and lawyers must accommodate themselves to technological advances, so should police forces. Resistance to the use of methods that can fairly end controversy are bound, in the end, to fail. It is important that the law should not fall behind technological developments. In a number of major ways, this Bill seeks to utilise science and to bring the process of criminal investigation into the modern age. This Parliament should be content with nothing less. 
On the lines of the Commission's recommendations and draft Bill attached to the report, provision is made regarding the communication to other persons of information held in the records of the Commonwealth Police Force. When the form of the proposed freedom of information legislation is settled, it may be necessary to reconsider the provisions in the present Bill in the light of that legislation. 
As previously stated, the Bill represents an attempt to strike a balance between the community's need for effective law enforcement and the need to preserve civil liberties. The Government looks forward to an informed and constructive public debate on the provisions of this Bill which, as I have stated, will apply initially only to the Commonwealth Police Force but which may be applied by regulation to other employees of the Commonwealth engaged in criminal investigation. Any suggestions for improvement of the legislation will be very carefully considered before the Bill is proceeded with. It is important in matters as vital to the proper operation of the criminal justice system as this Bill that proposals for legislation should be thoroughly and carefully weighed before the law is finally enacted. It is also vital that the community should be involved in the formulation of this legislation. This is the way the Commission approached its task. It is also the way in which the Government approaches the implementation of the Commission' major proposals. It is hoped that the legislation will be debated towards the end of these present sittings and I look forward to receiving submissions from honourable members and senators and from all other interested persons and organisations, if possible, by 1 May next. I would also invite State Minister and police forces to make submissions if they wish to do so. The legislation could become a model for all criminal investigation in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In 1959 Cabinet decided that the then AttorneyGeneral should explore with the New South Wales authorities a proposal for the Commonwealth and the State to co-operate in the erection of a court building. It was ultimately decided to erect such a building on adjoining pieces of land owned respectively by the Commonwealth and the State. The land has frontages to Macquarie, King and Phillip Streets, Sydney. 
In accordance with the arrangements made the then Commonwealth Department of Works, acting on behalf of both governments, entered into contracts for the erection of a building and became responsible for the contract supervision and for the management of the construction. It was intended that Commonwealth courts would occupy part of the building and that other parts of the building would be occupied by the New South Wales Supreme Court. It was originally envisaged that the general management of the building would be conducted by a committee comprising representatives of the Commonwealth and the State. However, it became apparent that a number of difficulties would arise if the Commonwealth and State lands remained in separate ownership. The building had not been constructed so that those parts standing on the separate lands could be used independently and, in order to protect the separate interests of both the State and the Commonwealth, a great number of complicated conveyancing and other arrangements would have had to be made. For this and other reasons it was thought that the better course would be to form a corporation in which all the land would be vested and which would also manage the building. Accordingly a company, Law Courts Limited, was formed and incorporated under the Companies Act 1961 of the State of New South Wales. The arrangements between the Commonwealth and the State are that both the Commonwealth and the State owned lands should be transferred to the company and that the company should not be subject to Commonwealth or State taxation. 
Sub-section 53(1) of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 gives the Minister for Administrative 
Services authority to dispose of land vested in the Commonwealth which is no longer required by the Commonwealth or is not required for immediate use by the Commonwealth. As the Commonwealth owned land is obviously still required by the Commonwealth for immediate use, it is my view that in the present circumstances, the Minister has no power under that sub-section to authorise the transfer of the Commonwealth owned land to the company. Provision for the disposal of the land is therefore made in this Bill- clause 4- and, in accordance with the arrangements made with the State, clause 5 exempts the company from taxation under any law of the Commonwealth or of a Territory. If at any time the building is no longer required for its present purposes, provision has been made in the memorandum and articles of the company for the 2 parcels of land to revert to the previous owners when the company is wound up. The State is enacting legislation which provides for the transfer of the State owned land to the company and for the exemption of the company from liability to pay any rates, taxes or duties under any law of the State. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The granting of legal assistance to the Territorial senators and members of the House of Representatives has been considered by the Government and the Government has decided that legal assistance should be given. As the interests of the senators and members which will be argued are the same as those of the Commonwealth, I am proposing to ask the Crown Solicitor under section 55E of the Judiciary Act to brief senior and junior counsel to appear on behalf of the senators and members involved. That, of course, would mean senators and members from both sides of this House and the other place. 
-I have some difficulty comprehending the meaning of the phrase whether it is a viable proposition'. It depends on one's attitude to the question. Politically speaking, I should not have thought that it was a viable proposition. The whole thrust of this country since Federation has been to develop the capital of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory. This plan was adopted many years ago and has been prosecuted ever since. In that sense, I should not have thought that it was a viable proposition. At the moment the Constitution provides that the Territory shall consist of an area of at least 100 square miles. If the Australian Capital Territory were to consist of only the parliamentary triangle, it would be a very peculiar sort of territory in which to have the seat of government. With very great respect to the honourable member for Griffith and although I would like to assist him to develop a viable proposition, I suggest that this is not a proposition which I, as Attorney-General, would wish to present to the Cabinet at this stage. I suggest to the honourable member that he should bring up this matter in the Party ranks in Queensland. 
in reply- I thank honourable members for the creative contributions that they have made. But I must say much of what has been said has been based upon misapprehension. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who has just spoken, is an illustration of the sense of fear and legalistic analysis that has suddenly gripped all who have spoken against this measure. Usually it is the lawyers who are gripped by this sort of thinking. If one wants to instil fear into the hearts and souls of people in respect of legislation of the character we are considering, he need only proffer some legalistic analysis designed to show people that the legislation might strike at a man who is driving a motor vehicle up the streets of Salisbury or some other place. The fact is, of course, that such a consideration is so remote and so small a part of the legislation- in fact it is not even caught by itthat one can only say that fear and legalistic analysis of this sort do not help in a debate about a matter so serious as international terrorism, which is what this Bill is about. Let us make no mistake about this. All civilised governments of the world have decreed that terrorism ought to be outlawed. A basic objective of this Bill is to do just that. 
One would have hoped that in this debate we would have heard a cry from the Opposition supporting this basic idea and seeking to assist the Government in its attempt to put into legislative form some sort of provisions that would enable this country to play its part in the great task that this world has to smash terrorism at every level. Clauses 6, 7 and 8 of the Bill are cast in that mould. They are designed to say to every Australian: 'You are not going to engage in terrorism anywhere in this world. This, your Government -one would hope supported by the Oppositionis going to take every measure it can to stop terrorism'. Clause 6 is not designed to impede the freedom of people. It is not in the Bill to stop people from driving motor cars up the main street of Salisbury. It is not designed to prevent a man from kicking a garbage tin as he walks down the Strand. What a lot of rubbish we hear from people when they talk in this way about the provisions of clause 6 of the Bill. One may ask why the clause is in the Bill. It is there to stop the sort of thing that we saw happen at Tel Aviv airport in Israel some years ago. It is there to stop people who think that they can just enter a country, shoot people down, instil fear into the hearts and souls of the population and strike at the government of a country. 
Every civilised government has an interest in legislation of this character. I would have hoped that the Opposition, and indeed some honourable members behind me, would have hailed this legislation as a major step towards the adoption of this type of legislation around the world. By passing this legislation we will be able to say: Yes, we have set our face into the wind in this area and we have established a precedent that other civilised countries can follow'. 
I defend clause 6 not only as a matter of substance but also because its provisions, when read with that degree of common sense that is demanded in reading legislation, would lead one to the view that it achieves the objectives that I outlined in my second reading speech. Paragraph (a) of clause 6(3) states:  the overthrow by force or violence of the government of the foreign country; 
That refers to the objective of entry. Paragraph (b) states:  causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury; 
If there are some better words to explain our objectives, let us have them. But that is the draftsman's choice of words on our instructions to him, namely, that we want to stop people going from Australia into another country and doing just what the Bill spells out- instilling fear into the public of that other country, and having that as their objective. Paragraph (c)  states:  causing the death of, or bodily injury to, a person who- (i) is the head of state . . . 
We want to stop that. I do not care whether the head of state is the  President  of Russia or the  President  of the United States of America. This consideration has nothing to do with political attitudes. We are concerned with the attitudes of mankind as they relate to peace and the solution of war and violence in our communities. Every government and every one of us has an interest in stopping war and violence. 
I hope that none of us has a brief to encourage any person in our country to go abroad for the purpose of activities of the kind I have mentioned. Paragraph (d) of clause 6(3) states:  unlawfully destroying or damaging any real or personal property belonging to the government of the foreign country. 
The Australian Government says without any reservations that that is not a worthy objective for Australians to have. 
What is the purport of clauses 7 and 8 of the Bill? These clauses, which are the most effective provisions in this Bill, relate to terrorism. They have been included to strike at activities designed to prepare for terrorism that are going on in this country. I have said that there have been unfortunate incidents of this sort in this country. The Government is determined to stamp them out. Clause 7 has been included for that very purpose. Again I hope that every member of the House will see clause 7 as an effective provision designed to do just that. 
The honourable member for Wills was worried about clause 7 ( 1 ) (e) because he feared that it might relate to Vietnam. It has nothing to do with Vietnam. It is directed to people doing things for the purpose of the commission of an offence against clause 6, and, of course, that is preparing for an act of terrorism. We are not concerned about the Vietnam situation because it has nothing to do with this paragraph. To say that it has is to distort completely the purpose and object of this legislation. 
Clause 8 clearly is designed for the purpose of stopping the recruitment of people for the evil purpose of hostile activities against foreign governments. There is no doubt that it is an evil purpose for people to go into other countries in order to strike down the head of state, to strike at the people of those countries or to attempt to overthrow its government. Unless we are prepared to seek, even in Uganda and with a man like Amin, a solution to the problem by basically peaceful means, without force or violence, the principle that we are pursuing will stand for nothing at all. There is only one solution to this problem of violence- I think honourable members opposite will agree with me- and that is by the use of peace and understanding. 
Clause 9 of the Bill has been the butt of a number of attacks both in relation to its scope and in relation to the powers which it proposes to give to the Attorney-General. I defend this clause as a reasonable provision. I understand that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  says that clause 9 in effect is not wide enough, that it ought to apply not only to recruitment in Australia but also to enlistment overseas. The Government has taken the view which I outlined in my second reading speech, that people in Australia ought to be able to go and join defence forces overseas. The Government is not prepared to stop that. One could quote a number of statements from the Wilberforce report, but I shall not do so. However, the report emphasises that it is undesirable to interfere with the freedom of an individual to enlist in a foreign defence force. If he chooses to do it, so be it. It does not mean that the Government thinks it is a good thing. It does not mean that we all applaud it. But the fact is that it is a right- not in a legal sense but in a general sensewhich the Government feels a person should have. 
Quite apart from that, the report of Lord Diplock points to the undesirability, and I will concede it, of extraterritorial legislation in criminal areas. Of course the Opposition can have no comfort in the fact that on the one hand it is accusing the Government of introducing extraterritorial legislation and on the other hand it is saying that it should be wider to cover enlistment. Lord Diplock says that legislation of the character which prohibits enlistment overseas should not be passed unless it is clearly in the public interest. Quite clearly clause 6 is of that order. That is to say, it is extraterritorial. The Crimes Act of Australia is extraterritorial. It too has an extraterritorial operation. 
There is no doubt about the power of our Parliament to pass extraterritorial laws. The Statute of Westminster says so. The High Court in  Croft v. Dunphy  said it. There is absolutely no doubt about it. Before legislation of this character is passed or before it is put forward there ought to be a public interest factor which is so strong as to overrule the ordinary view that in a criminal area it should not be extraterritorial. What is the public interest factor here? I have already adverted to it. That is the fact that the Government is bent on stamping out terrorist activities by Australians. Therefore we feel it is appropriate to put into the legislation a provision which does what clause 6 does. In other words, we feel it meets the public interest test to which Lord Diplock referred in the report to which many honourable members have referred. 
I come to sub-clause 9(2), which gives the Attorney-General power not to extend the operation of the legislation but to reduce its operation. He can do this only where he says it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit recruitment in a particular case. There has been in this time of ours a great deal of attack on our basic institutions. One of the institutions we have is ministerial responsibility and responsibility in this House. An Attorney-General who used that provision in a way which was clearly not in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia would be subjected to an attack. Of course, from time to time such attacks are made on Ministers. The fact is that the Attorney-General 's charter is clear.  His  duty is to act within the responsibility that is laid upon him by the Parliament in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia. If the government of the day wanted to it could bring in an amendment or there could be a proclamation procedure, but the fact is that whatever approach is adopted in relation to these matters there ought to be in given circumstances a means of allowing recruitment in times of partial war or something of that description when our country is under threat. For instance, if we were not at war but there was some threat that could involve Australia, say an attack on Canada and the Canadian people wanted to recruit Australians to fight in Canada and we felt it was in the interests of our defence that we should go to the assistance of our Canadian friends, then of course a government or an Attorney-General instructed or moved by his government would be justified under such a clause as sub-clause 9 (2) to take the step of permitting recruitment. That is the sort of thing that it is intended to deal with. It is not intended to be applied in clandestine situations such as those that have been suggested. 
There has been an attack on clause 10, which gives power to the Attorney-General to consent to the sorts of prosecutions provided for. Some honourable members have conceded that it is not an unusual provision. I remind honourable gentlemen opposite of one Act that was put forward by them. The only excuse is that perhaps they might be able to say I was Solicitor-General at the time serving their Government. I confess and avoid. In the ultimate the Labor Government's legislation committee had to adopt it and it had to be adopted by the Caucus. The Crimes (Protection of Aircraft) Act 1973 in section 17 contains a provision almost identical with clause 10 of this Bill. Why is it there? The reason is that crimes of this character ought to be the subject of a discretion on the part of the law officer before people are prosecuted. 
-I thought a couple of honourable members on the Opposition side challenged clause 10. 
The honourable member's attack on clause 10- I think if he looks at  Hansard  he will find that he made an attack on it- is not well founded because it is a clause which ought to be found in legislation of this character. He may have a point in saying that it should be confined to the Attorney-General. Quite frankly, I am prepared to concede that. If the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  wanted to move an amendment on that I might accept it. If he wants to restrict the delegation power to the Attorney-General I am happy to do that. There was an attack on sub-clause (5). Sub-clause (5) reads: 
Nothing in sub-clause (4) prevents the discharge of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time. 
It is there to help the accused. It is not there to condemn the accused or to put him in gaol a little longer. It is there to help him. I remind the honourable member for St George that there is a section in the Judiciary Act of which I am sure he is aware, section 68, which says that the laws of each State with respect to the arrest and custody of offenders or persons charged with offences etc., in effect apply. If there are laws in New South Wales which relate to the arrest of offenders and allow them to be released after 6 days, 6 hours or whatever it may be they would apply in relation to this legislation because, as it will be noticed, under clause 1 1, jurisdiction is given to the State courts. So with respect to the attack on clause 10 I would say only that the Government does not accept it except in the limited way in which I am prepared to see clause 10 amended if an appropriate amendment is put forward. 
I simply come back to the basic proposition with which I started and with which I believe the second reading speech started. That is that this is a Bill designed in its initial and main thrust to outlaw terrorism from the Australian mind. We want Australians to forget ideas of terrorist activities overseas. We hope they will forget activities of that character, certainly in their countries of origin. There are laws to prevent that but there are not sufficient laws to prevent Australians from preparing here to engage in activities overseas. 
I indicated in the second reading speech that the Government was contemplating a proclamation under section 27 of the Crimes Act in order to prevent unlawful drilling. There has been at least one instance recently of this sort of  drilling. It should stop. It cannot be allowed in our country. We do not want that in our country. If we are to have a defence force we want the taxpayers to pay for it and we want it to be brought together in a legitimate way. Section 27 of the Crimes Act will be availed of when this legislation comes into force. That proclamation will be made as a means of complementing the legislation so as to prevent unlawful drilling. The whole purpose of it will be, as I said earlier, to outlaw terrorism in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The Government has already indicated that it opposes the amendments to clause 6. Clearly, the clause selects specific conduct of what might be called a paramilitary or hostile nature and it fixes on that particular conduct. What the amendment would do, quite clearly, is to not direct the clause to any particular conduct or objective. It would omit sub-clause (3). It would apply right across the field to all military or paramilitary activity overseas. The Government does not accept that. In my second reading speech and in my speech in reply I have indicated sufficiently the Government's attitude in relation to this matter. The Government opposes the amendment. 
The purport of this amendment is to remove sub-clause (2) of clause 9. The problem, needless to say, is that what the Opposition is doing is seeking to apply a blanket principle in a situation where there will inevitably be some exceptions. The purpose of sub-clause (2), as I indicated in my reply in the second reading debate, is simply to enable the government of the day through its Attorney-General, to make those exceptions that are sensible and necessary when they arise. They are exceptions that will occur only on the ground of being in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia. Those circumstances are clearly prescribed. 
An amendment was proposed by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  Sometimes some reasonable suggestions come from him. During the suspension of the sitting, I gave some thought to an amendment to the clause that might satisfy this suggestion. Although we will not move an amendment here, if the honourable member does not mind, I say to the Committee that I shall ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  who represented me in the other place to move an amendment on behalf of the Government. In effect, it will treat an instrument which is signed under sub-clause (2) as if it were for instance, a regulation, and then it will lie on the table of each House and can be disallowed within the prescribed period. That amendment will be moved in the Senate. So, if that meets with the approval of honourable members opposite, their appetite will be satisfied in the other place. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
We heard what the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  said. It seemed to me to be reasonable to omit the words or a person authorised by the Attorney-General, by instrument in writing, to give such consents' and to substitute 'or any Minister for the time being acting as Attorney-General', i.e. provided the Minister who was acting as Attorney-General also had the power to exercise this discretion under clause 10, sub-clause (3). Again, I would not propose to move an amendment on behalf of the Government, but it will be moved in the other place. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  explained that there is a political content in this consent that may not exist in other instances.  His  point, as I understood it, was that it was desirable to confine it to a Minister. That was the reason why I was moved to accept it. It is an exception, perhaps, to other cases in which the Attorney-General's consent might be conferred on, say, the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor in the Australian Capital Territory, as it is in many cases, but it should not be conferred on such a person in relation to a discretion of this character. Therefore I am prepared to accede to his request that it be confined to a Minister. 
-in reply-I have already indicated to the House that those proposed amendments are amendments of substance to the nature of the Bill. Needless to say, the points raised in the debate were listened to by me as the debate ensued. I will take note of the various points raised. If I feel that they do raise any questions that could bring forward an amendment within the substance of the Bill as the Government sees it, I would be prepared to bring them forward. At this stage, having heard the debate and having given it consideration, I am not moved to suggest any. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-in reply- I feel that after those words of wisdom I should reply on behalf of the Government. There has been a series of attacks on me in relation to this measure. I thought it was one of those non-controversial measures which would find its way quietly through the House. However, as might be expected, this has not turned out to be so. First of all, it seems to have provoked an attack on me as the AttorneyGeneral because of my administration of the Family Court of Australia. Just to put honourable members' minds at rest, the fact is that because this building has been built and judges have moved into it, Temple Court, where the Federal judges have been for some years, will become vacant and very shortly those premises will be passed over to the Family Court and there will be eight or ten magnificent courts there to minister to the people of Sydney who find themselves embroiled in the Family Law Act. So this building has a direct effect on the people of Sydney and it enables us to get on with plans to put the Family Court where it was always intended to be- in a place much more suitable than that chosen for it by, if I might say so, the Labor Government down in George Street well away from transport, well away from the legal profession and in a place where very quickly the building became quite inadequate and people were forced to move to various parts of the city. But because of the construction of this building, and purely no doubt as a matter of coincidence in time, the fact is that the Family Court will be moving into better premises. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  would have to mention the door. He could not resist it. He assumes that the Attorney-General does nothing and that he is not in contact with the matter in Sydney. I only hope that by reason of the honourable member for Grayndler having said something about it, all the careful negotiations that I have been undertaking do not fall to the ground, but I assure the honourable member that I am optimistic that the door will be opened. 
I, and I am sure honourable members behind me- there are not too many of them but there are a few in front of me- never thought we would be criticised for allowing a shadow to fall across a park at 5 o'clock in the afternoon. Some honourable members do not come from Sydney so I can understand why they feel there is some substance in that remark but the fact is that at that end of Hyde Park there are many trees and the trees are there to shade people from the sun. Those of us who are used to walking in Hyde Park know that that is one of the more pleasant parts of the park either to wander about or to sit in the shade out of the midday sun. Now we are in trouble because we have erected a building 300-feet high that allows a shadow to fall across the park at 5 o'clock in the afternoon. I cannot apologise for that. I am very sorry; we cannot move the shadow. I do not think it is going to affect the people of Sydney in any way whatsoever. 
As for the building, it has turned out to be a magnificent building from the point of view of the administration of justice and that is actually what it was built for. It was built to house law courts and inside the building there are court rooms, places forjudges and registry rooms. May I simply add that due to the thoughts of  Senator Murphy  there is even a suite there for the Attorney-General. May I simply say that the building is a magnificent building and although, due to the type of achitecture that has to be adopted for courts, it may not look as magnificent from the outside as one might have liked it to look, nevertheless this building was constructed so as to fit in with the Law School and the surrounding buildings, and it does exactly that. I do not apologise for the architecture. I am very glad the building is completed and I hope that this Bill will bring about a situation in which State and Federal relations will flourish within Law Courts Limited. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I have only seen a report about this matter in, I think, the  Bulletin  this week. May I say that at this stage the question is hypothetical and therefore it is very difficult for me to offer an answer to the honourable gentleman. The honourable gentleman asked whether I would pay the costs. I can assure him that I am not going to pay them personally. However, I should also say to the honourable gentleman that should any proceedings of this character be instituted, and should they be proceedings which are capable of being taken- having in mind a question as to the rights of people to bring proceedings of this character in the High Court- then no doubt if applications are made to me in relation to legal assistance I will give those requests careful consideration. Until then I suggest that honourable members from New South Wales and South Australia take it quietly and get on with the job of legislating. The High Court has been asked in the past to declare seats vacant  en masse  and so far it has not been prepared to take that step. 
The question of granting remissions or recommending to  His Excellency  that such remissions should be granted by virtue of the royal visit was considered by me. I think it has been the practice in New South Wales to grant remissions. In the Commonwealth area, except I think in 1973, it has not been the practice. I think  Senator Murphy  recommended it in 1973 when the Queen visited Australia. I formed the view that these remissions should not be recommended. It seemed to me that the parole system is there to deal with questions of remissionto take into account good conduct and matters of this description. I feel that the time for remissions of this character, which are really gratuitous, has passed, because the parole system is there to deal with the matter. I can understand that there might be some element of dissatisfaction amongst prisoners, but that would have occurred many times in the past when the Commonwealth did not take the step that New South Wales had taken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member's attention to the answer provided to Question No. 138  (Hansard,  page 1641 of 27 April 1976). 
Nuclear Explosions in Australia  (Question No.  126) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The establishment of the Government Parties' Law and Government Committee, with 12 other Standing Committees covering all Ministerial areas and 2 special Committees dealing with electoral tactics and Parliamentary Reform, was announced in a press release issued by the Prime Minister on 18 March 1976. 
The membership of the Law and Government Committee, as at March 1977, is as follows: 

 Senator T. J. Tehan  (Chairman) 
M. Ruddock, M.P. (Secretary) 
J. Birney, M.P. 
A. Brown, M.P. 
L. Carige, M.P. 
D. Falconer, M.P. 
J. Groom, M.P. 
Hodgman, M.P. 
M.J. Neil, M.P. 
Hon. I. L. Robinson, M.P. 

 Senator A. J. Missen 

 Senator the Hon. R. C. Wright 
The Committees' functions, as announced in the Prime Minister's press release, include the examination of legislation and assistance with the development of policy; providing a two-way channel of communication between the Government and the community at large; and reporting to the Party Room on proposed legislation after consultation with appropriate Ministers. 
The Law and Government Committee performs these advisory functions with particular reference to those matters for which I have responsibility as Attorney-General. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The preparation of an up-to-date reprint of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations is being given a high priority among the consolidations of Regulations being prepared by my Department. 
Conciliation and Arbitration Act: Re-numbering  (Question No. 67) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It would be possible to re-number the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in the way suggested. However, any such re-numbering would need to be made by an amending Act. The amending Act would need to include an interpretative provision to enable references in other laws or documents to provisions of the Act to be read as references to the re-numbered provisions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 43 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1 976 provides that the Court or a Judge has jurisdiction to award costs in all proceedings before the court other than proceedings in respect of which any other Act provides that costs shall not be awarded. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904, as amended by the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act (No. 3) 1976, provides in section 197a that a party to a proceeding before the Industrial Division of the Federal Court of Australia, in a matter arising under that Act, shall not be ordered to pay any costs incurred by any other party to that proceeding, except where the party against whom the order is made instituted the proceedings vexatiously or without reasonable cause. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1973 volume of Acts was published in April 1973. 
The 1974 volume of Acts is expected to be published within the next few months. Steps are being taken to expedite the publishing of subsequent bound volumes of Acts. Each of the Acts passed each year is, however, distributed as a separate pamphlet and information is also issued each year giving particulars of the Acts passed in the year and of amendments or repeals made by Acts the short titles of which differ from those of the Acts affected. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the question I wanted to ask was which bench it was that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  was sitting on in that court. Those of us who have been in that court know that there are several benches in it, and some of them are higher than others. I want to say that it gave me great pleasure to go to Alice Springs last year at about this time and at least to come to a decision that the Government should be asked to proceed with this development. The previous Government had not seen fit to take it up, but we resolved last year to do it. Of course, the matter was sent off to the Joint Committee on Public Works. It is a matter that should not have been left unresolved. It has needed urgent attention for some time. As the Attorney-General and the one responsible for the administration of the courts, may I say that it is urgent work. The people of Alice Springs have gone far too long without proper court premises. I am sure that the old cell block which seems to have endeared itself to those in Alice Springs will be looked after by the Department of Administrative Services in the proper way. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since 1 February 1977, jurisdiction vested in the Australian Industrial Court has, by virtue of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act 1976 and the Federal Court of Australia (Consequential Provisions) Act 1 976, been vested in the Federal Court of Australia. 
, (3 ) and (4) No.  Mr Justice  Joske,  Mr Justice  Smithers,  Mr Justice  Dunphy and  Mr Justice  Nimmo hold judicial appointments as follows: 

 Mr Justice Joske: Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, additional Judge of the Supreme CourtoftheNorthern Territory of Australia, additional Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, Judge of the Supreme CourtofNorfolkIsland. 

 Mr Justice Smithers: Judge of the Federal Court of Australia, Judge of the Australian Industrial Court,ad ditional Judge of the Supreme CourtoftheAustralian Capital Territory, additional Judge of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory of Australia. 

 Mr Justice Dunphy: Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, additional Judge of the Supreme Court of the NorthernTerritoryofAustralia,additionaljudgeofthe Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, additional Judge of the SupremeCourtofNorfolkIsland, additional Judge of the Supreme Court of Cocos (Keeling) Island, additional Judge of the Supreme Court of Christmas Island. 

 Mr Justice Nimmo: Judge of the Federal Court of Australia, Judge of the Australian Industrial Court. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed by my Department that total amount of $76,186 was paid by my Department to various university and non-university consultants in 1975-76. 
, (3) and (4) I am informed by my Department that: 
Professor Colin Howard was paid $25,000 in 1975-76; an amount of $8,387 was also paid to the University of Melbourne as the employer's contribution of Professor Howard's superannuation contributions. 
Professor Howard's contract terminated on 30 September 1976. Payments of $8,333 to Professor Howard and $7,866 to the University of Melbourne have been made under contract in 1976-77. 
In his capacity as General Counsel, Professor Howard gave advice direct to former Attorneys-General. Professor Howard in 1976 furnished advice to the Law Reform Commission on various references until his engagement terminated. 
Yes. 
I have insufficient information to enable me to answer this question. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act of 1975 gave effect to the recommendations of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee, the Kerr Committee, which reported in 1971. It was supported on both sides of the House. The Bill now introduced is intended to make some changes in the structure of the Tribunal to enable it to operate more flexibly in dealing with a much wider range of matters than at present. The Tribunal came into operation on 1 July 1976. It has jurisdiction to review decisions under a number of Acts, some ordinances of the ACT, and by-laws made by the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission. Nevertheless, only 24 applications had been made to the Tribunal to 26 April last. Most of the legislation conferring jurisdiction on the Tribunal is not of a kind that requires decisions to be made in a substantial number of cases. So far the Tribunal has no jurisdiction in the welfare field. Plans are now well advanced, however, to enable appeals to be taken to the Tribunal under the Social Services Act. Appeals will also be provided under a large number of ACT ordinances. It has become apparent that the Tribunal should have a different structure if it is to be equipped to hear appeals on a wide range of matters without making excessive demands on the services of presidential members at a judicial level. 
The central feature of the amendments is to be found in clause 12 of the Bill. At present, subject to any provision to the contrary contained in an enactment conferring jurisdiction on the Tribunal, the Tribunal must be constituted by a presidential member and 2 non-presidential members. What is now proposed is that the Tribunal may be constituted in any of 4 ways- by a presidential and 2 non-presidential members; by a presidential member alone; by a senior nonpresidential member- a new class of memberand 2 other non-presidential members; or by a senior non-presidential member sitting alone. Subject to any provision to the contrary in another enactment the  President  is to be empowered to decide how the Tribunal is to be constituted for a particular matter. 
The  President  when constituting a tribunal is to have regard to the degree of public importance or complexity of the matters to which the proceeding relates and to the status of the decision-maker whose decision is to be reviewed. 
What is intended is that decisions made at ministerial or very senior departmental level would ordinarily be reviewed by the Tribunal constituted by or including a presidential member. So too would a decision in the nature of a test case made at a lower level of government. Of course, an appeal that begins as a straightforward matter may turn out to be a complex one or one of much public interest, or to involve difficult questions of statutory interpretation. The Bill therefore makes provisions whereby such a case, it it has been set down before a non-presidential bench of the Tribunal, may be transferred to a presidential bench. These provisions are to be found in clauses 1 1 and 13 of the Bill. 
The amendments to be made to section 20 of the Act would empower the  President  to change the composition of a tribunal where it has not commenced to hear a matter. Again this discretion will be exercisable by reference only to criteria of complexity and public importance of the matter and the status of the decision-maker. Where the Tribunal has commenced a hearing the matter can be brought before a 'higher level' of the Tribunal under the proposed new section 2 1 A which is inserted by clause 13. In such a case the change can be made only where a party makes an application for this purpose and the  President  concludes that the public importance of the matter warrants the application being granted. Now section 21A also provides for the case where only part of a matter requires to be dealt with at a 'higher level' of the Tribunal. For example, where it is necessary to resolve a question of law, proceedings commenced before a non-presidential bench can be brought before a presidential bench for the purpose, and then remitted back to the non-presidential bench. 
Consequential upon the amendments referred to, section 45 of the Act is amended by clause 30 so that the Tribunal, when it does not include a 1 residential member, may not refer a question of aw to the Federal Court of Australia without the concurrence of the  President.  This clause reflects the view that matters should not go to the court until the resources of the Tribunal have been exhausted. 
The creation of the new grade of senior nonpresidential member has required changes to a number of other sections oi the Act. Clause 4 amends section 6 of the Act to provide for the appointment of such a member. Section 10 is to be remade by clause 6, to incorporate provision for appointment of acting senior nonpresidential members. Section 22 is to be remade by clause 13, to provide for a senior nonpresidential member to preside at a hearing of the Tribunal constituted as a non-presidential bench. Although the Bill does not require a senior non-presidential member to have legal qualifications, it is intended that in practice legal training will be required for such an appointment. 
Next, the Bill proposes some changes to section 26 of the principal Act. That section enables additional jurisdiction to be given to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal by regulations made under the principal Act. At present, however, jurisdiction can be given only in respect of decisions made after regulations providing for appeals against decisions under a particular statute come into force. This means that, where there is an existing review machinery under a statute, regulations cannot provide for the transfer to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal of matters pending before that existing review machinery at the date on which the relevant regulations are made. The purpose of clause 16 of the Bill is to amend section 26 of the Act to facilitate the transfer, by regulations made in accordance with that section, of the jurisdiction of existing appeal bodies to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
The other provisions of the Bill that require special mention are those relating to the protection of information that ought not, in the public interest, be publicly disclosed in proceedings before the Tribunal or as a result of having been produced, in confidence, to the Tribunal. Section 36 of the principal Act empowers the AttorneyGeneral to give a certificate that the disclosure of information concerning a specified matter or the disclosure of the contents of a document would be contrary to the public interest. The giving of such a certificate does not prevent the information or documents being made available to the Tribunal, but it may prevent them being disclosed publicly or to parties to proceedings before the Tribunal. Except where the certificate is given on the ground that the disclosure would prejudice security, defence or international relations or would disclose proceedings in Cabinet, an Attorney-General's certificate may be challenged before the Tribunal and may, if the Tribunal so rules, be set aside. 
Section 36 is to be amended in 3 respects. First, the question whether a certificate should be set aside is to be determined by the  President  of the Tribunal. This is consequential upon the creation of the new class of senior non-presidential members to preside at sittings of the Tribunal. Under the Act as it stands, where a presidential member presides at a sitting of the Tribunal, he would decide the question whether a certificate under section 36 should be set aside. Secondly, it is to be made clear that where a certificate is set aside this may be done on terms that only some of the parties may have access to the document or information concerned. Thirdly, it is to be made clear that members of the staff of the Tribunal may have such access to a document or information the subject of a section 36 certificate as is necessary for them to perform their duties. A similar amendment is to be made to section 46 in relation to the staff of the Federal Court of Australia. The Act does not provide for the Attorney-General to claim a like immunity from disclosure in respect of an answer to a question asked of a witness in proceedings before the Tribunal. New section 36A, to be inserted by clause 23 of the Bill, makes provision for this to be done. 
Section 66 of the principal Act makes it an offence for a member of the Tribunal, a former member of the Tribunal, or a member or former member of the staff of the Tribunal to disclose any information acquired by him by reason of his office or employment for the purposes of the Act. This provision goes much too far. It applies whether or not the information concerned is otherwise publicly available. It subjects members of the Tribunal of judicial status to restrictions that do not apply to them in their office as judges. Accordingly, section 66 is to be replaced by a new section, to ensure that documents or information furnished to or given in evidence before the Tribunal cannot be required to be produced or given in evidence in other proceedings if there is a relevant certificate of the Attorney-General in force under section 36 of the Act or the Tribunal itself has ordered that there should be no public disclosure of the material. The proposed new section also provides that a person who is or has been a member of the Tribunal may not be required to give evidence in a court in relation to any proceedings before the Tribunal. Clause 28 of the Bill proposes the insertion of a new section 43A empowering the Tribunal to return documents lodged with the Tribunal to the person who lodged them. 
It is considered that proposed new sections 43A and 66, together with the general provisions of the law prohibiting unauthorised disclosure of information, will give adequate protection to confidential information and the privacy of persons appealing before the Tribunal. Regard must also be had to the powers the Tribunal has under section 35 of the Act to prohibit the publication of evidence. Contravention of an order of the Tribunal prohibiting the publication of material is punishable under section 63 of the principal Act. 
A new provision is to be made, by clause 36 of the Bill, for regulations to fix fees payable in respect of applications to the Tribunal. The regulations may provide for the refund, in whole or in part, of any fees paid when the proceedings terminate in a manner favourable to the applicant. The provision is included in the Bill so that, if it appears necessary to do so in any particular class of appeals, fees can be prescribed to deter frivolous applications to the Tribunal. 
The remaining provisions of the Bill relate to procedures in proceedings before the Tribunal. They are designed to simplify procedures and to facilitate the hearing of appeals by the Tribunal. Finally I should mention that the Bill has been very carefully considered by the Administrative Review Council which was appointed late last year. The Council endorses the changes proposed to be made to the structure of the Tribunal and to the procedures before the Tribunal. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a very significant measure. The purpose of this Bill is to reform the law relating to the review by the courts of administrative actions of Commonwealth ministers and officials. The Bill is a further step in the on-going review of Commonwealth administrative law that began with the establishment of the Administrative Review Committee- the Kerr Committee- in 1968 by the then Attorney-General. The proposals by that Committee have so far resulted in the establishment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Administrative Review Council and the enactment of the Ombudsman Act. Both the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Administrative Review Council are in operation; the Commonwealth Ombudsman has been appointed and it is expected that he will take up his office about the end of June. 
The present law relating to the review by the courts of administrative decisions is in a most unsatisfactory state. A great deal has been written about the shortcomings of the present procedures and it is not, I think, necessary for me to elaborate on these deficiencies in the present context. The law in this area is clearly in need of reform- indeed, it could be said to be medievaland simplification and to be put into statutory form. What the present Bill seeks to do is to establish a single simple form of proceeding in the Federal Court of Australia for judicial review of Commonwealth administrative actions as an alternative to the present cumbersome and technical procedures for review by way of prerogative writ, or the present actions for a declaration or injunction. 
Before I proceed to say something about the details of the Bill, it may be useful to set these proposals in the context of the machinery for review already embodied in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and Ombudsman Acts. It is very important that we get this in focus. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal is empowered to review on the merits any decision of a Minister or official acting under a statutory power if, but only if, the relevant legislation provides for an appeal to the Tribunal. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act does not confer a general right of appeal against decisions by ministers, officials and statutory bodies. Where, however, an appeal lies to the Tribunal, the Tribunal may review on the merits the decision appealed from and substitute its own decision. 
The Commonwealth Ombudsman is not restricted to the review of decisions taken in the exercise of statutory powers. He is empowered to investigate complaints against decisions of Commonwealth officials and statutory bodies, whether taken under statutory power or in the ordinary course of administration. He is excluded from reviewing actions by Ministers, but he may investigate a recommendation made by a department to a Minister. He will not be concerned directly with reviewing the merits of the decisions or action of officials where no element of maladministration is present and, in particular, he will not be empowered to substitute his own decision for that under review. He may only recommend corrective action where he thinks there has been maladministration. No doubt in many cases his decision will lead to review. 
Judicial review by the Federal Court of Australia will not be concerned at all with the merits of the decision or action under review. The only question for the Court will be whether the action is lawful, in the sense that it is within the power conferred on the relevant Minister or official or body that prescribed procedures have been followed and that general rules of law, such as conformity to the principles of natural justice, have been observed. The court will not be able to substitute its own decision for that of the person or body whose action is challenged in the court. It will be empowered to enjoin action or to quash a decision it finds unlawful and to direct action to be taken in accordance with the law. It will also be able to compel action by a person or body who has not acted, but who ought to have done so. 
It will thus be seen that the 3 avenues of review, appeal on the merits to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, investigation by the Commonwealth Ombudsman, and judicial review by the Federal Court of Australia, provide different approaches to the remedying of grievances about Commonwealth administrative action. Each has its own place in a comprehensive scheme for the redress of grievances. 
Apart from the technical limitations of the present law for judicial review under the prerogative writs, a person who is aggrieved by a decision usually has no means of compelling the decision-maker to give his reasons for the decision or to set out the facts on which the decision is based. Lack of knowledge on these matters will often make it difficult to mount an effective challenge to an administrative decision even though there may be grounds on which that decision can be challenged in law. Accordingly, one of the principal elements of the present Bill is a provision that will require a decision-maker to give to a person who is adversely affected by his decision the reasons for that decision and a statement of findings on material questions of fact, including the evidence or other material on which those findings were based. There is already a like provision in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act in respect of decisions from which an appeal lies to the Tribunal. 
A draft of the present Bill was considered in detail by the Administrative Review Council, and the comments and recommendations of the Council have been embodied in the Bill that is now before the House. 
I turn now to a description of the contents of the Bill. It provides for review by the Federal Court of Australia of decisions of an administrative character under an Act of the Parliament, a Territory ordinance or regulations or rules made under such an Act or ordinance. It also provides for the review of conduct engaged in or proposed to be engaged in for the purpose of making a decision to which the Bill will apply. Decisions made by the Governor-General under statutory authority are to be excluded, and there is provision for regulations to be made excluding classes of decisions from the scope of the Bill. The present law provides only a limited scope for review of the exercise of statutory powers by the Governor-General acting with the advice of the Federal Executive Council. Where the exercise of such a power is  prima facie ultra vires,  the courts can grant appropriate relief. But it appears doubtful whether the courts will inquire into the grounds on which advice is tendered to the Governor-General. It will still be open, in any case where such a decision is made in excess of statutory authority, for the existing remedies to be applied, but it has not been considered appropriate that the court should be empowered to inquire into the proceedings of the Federal Executive Council in the manner provided for in the present Bill. Specific provision is made in the Bill for the court to make an order requiring a decision to be made where there has been a breach of duty to make a decision to which the Bill applies. 
The grounds of review are set out in clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill. Clause 5 applies to a decision that has been made and clause 6 applies to conduct engaged in or proposed to be engaged in for the purpose of making a decision to which the Bill applies. Conduct includes the taking of evidence or the holding of an inquiry or investigation. The grounds of review specified are those that have been developed by the courts. To avoid stultifying further development of the law by the Federal Court of Australia, each of clauses 5 and 6 contains the comprehensive ground that the decision made or proposed to be made would be otherwise contrary to law. 
Clause 1 1 of the Bill provides for an application for review to be made in the manner prescribed by Rules of Court and for the time within which it may be made. An application for review under the Bill may be made by any person who is aggrieved by a decision. This term is defined in sub-clause 3 (4) to include a person whose interests are adversely affected by the decision or would be adversely affected by a proposed decision. These provisions relating to the standing of a person to challenge Commonwealth administrative action may need to be reviewed when the Australian Law Reform Commission presents its report on the law of standing. The Commission currently has a reference from me on the subject. Clause 13 provides that a person who is entitled to apply for a review of a decision may obtain from the decision-maker written reasons for the decision, including findings on material questions of fact. I have already referred to the importance of this provision. No longer will it be possible for the decision maker to hide behind silence. 
Clause 14 empowers the Attorney-General to give a certificate that the disclosure of information would be contrary to the public interest on a ground specified in that clause. These grounds cover those under which a claim of Crown privilege may be made before the court in judicial proceedings. The effect of such a certificate is that the information to which it relates need not be included in a statement under clause 13. Subclause (4) of clause 14 specifically provides, however, that the clause is not to affect the power of the court to make an order for the disclosure of documents or to require the giving of evidence or the production of documents to the court. 
The powers that the court may exercise on an application for an order of review are set out in clause 16. The court may quash or set aside the decision or part of the decision, refer the matter back to the decision maker for further consideration subject to such directions as the court thinks fit, make an order declaring the rights of the parties in respect of which the order relates, or direct any of the parties to do or refrain from doing any act or thing where the court considers this necessary to do justice between the parties. Where there has been a failure to make a decision, the court may make an order directing the making of a decision but not, of course, the making of a decision of a particular kind. 
The Bill is intended to provide a comprehensive procedure for judicial review of Commonwealth administrative action taken under statutory powers. Clause 9 of the Bill is intended to ensure that this jurisdiction is exclusive of the jurisdiction of State courts. The Judiciary Act has long embodied the policy that actions of Commonwealth officers should not be subject to review by way of mandamus or writ of prohibition in State courts- section 38 of the Judiciary Act. The clause further makes it clear that actions of the Federal judiciary are not to be subject to review in State courts. The jurisdiction of State courts to grant  habeas corpus  is not to be affected. Parliament cannot legislate, of course, to remove the powers of judicial review given to the High Court by the Constitution- section 75 (iii). It is expected, however, that the procedures provided for by this Bill make resort to the existing procedures for judicial review unnecessary except where a review is sought of decisions excluded from review under the present Bill or otherwise in special circumstances. Most of the prerogative writs are granted on the discretion of the court and one would imagine that the High Court, faced with an application for a prerogative writ under section 75 (iii), would give careful consideration to the situation in which an application could have been made to the Federal Court under these provisions. 
Clause 10 of the Bill preserves any other right of review of Commonwealth administrative decisions. In particular, paragraph 10 (1) (b) provides that the Bill is not to affect the powers of the Commonwealth Ombudsman. The Government also has 2 further measures in hand as part of the program of reform of administrative law. These are a Bill to set down standard procedures for Commonwealth adjudicative tribunals, in line with the recommendations of the Kerr Committee, and a Freedom of Information Bill, which will entitle persons to have access to documents in the possession of Commonwealth agencies, subject, of course, to certain exceptions designed to protect the public interest in the confidentiality of certain documents and proceedings. Both Bills are in the course of drafting and I would hope to be able to introduce the Freedom of Information Bill before the end of the present sittings of the Parliament. The other Bill, which sets down standard procedures, will certainly be introduced before the end of this year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I will take on notice the question that the honourable gentleman asks and I will give him an answer. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
-Is the honourable member talking about me? 
If he is not, he had better make it clear. This question is basically one of interpretation of the Constitution. It is a question of law. The facts in this matter that are relevant are not really in dispute so far as I understand them although there may be some variation here and there. It is a question of whether the Constitution catches up the position of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in such a way as to cause his seat to be declared vacant. Section 47 of the Constitution states: 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, any question respecting the qualification of a  Senator or  of a member of the House of Representatives, or respecting a vacancy in either House of the Parliament, and any question of a disputed election to either House, shall be determined by the House in which the question arises. 
Section 203 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act does bring in a qualification to that and enables this House, if it wishes, to send the matter off to the Court of Disputed Returns. It is the Government 's view in this matter that, because of the question and the answer that can be given to it, this House should determine the matter and not send it off to the High Court of Australia. 
I ask honourable members who have a regard for this matter to listen to what I say. As I understand it, although some emotive phrases were used by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  basically honourable members have attempted to approach the subject in the way I suggested, namely, as a question of law applied to the facts. I ask honourable members opposite to listen carefully because I am anxious that they should understand what I am about to say and what I am about to put to the House and that they should feel some confidence in what I am about to say because I will put it as the first law officer of the Commonwealth and not in any other way. 
One thing that is important to understand is this: Section 44 of the Constitution, in dealing with people who shall be incapable of being chosen- that is chosen or elected to this Houserefers in the relevant part to a person who is an undischarged bankrupt or who is insolvent. So the thrust of this section is to take some action in relation to a person who is insolvent. However, that is not the section that is relevant to this matter because the honourable member is neither bankrupt nor insolvent in the sense that the words are used in that section.  Mr Speaker,  I make the point right at the outset- it is very important to understand this-that there is no evidence that the honourable member is insolvent or has been insolvent. That is a very important fact to bear in mind and I ask honourable members to understand it. If they do not understand it and comprehend it at the beginning, they will get caught up in all sorts of emotional exercises. I ask honourable members to bear that in mind. 
Section 45 (ii) of the Constitution is the relevant provision. It states: 
If a senator or member of the House of Representatives- 
Takes the benefit - 
I emphasise the words 'takes the benefit'-  whether by assignment, composition, or otherwise, of any law relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors ... his place shall thereupon - 
I emphasise the word 'thereupon '- become vacant. 
It is important first of all to note that if a person had taken the benefit prior to his becoming a member- that is to say, at a time prior to his electionthe fact that he had entered into a deed of arrangement in the strict sense to which I will refer subsequently, would not preclude him from being elected because section 44 (iii) refers to an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent. Neither of those terms applies to a person who has taken the benefit, whether by assignment, composition or otherwise, of any law relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors. I point that out to honourable members. It is not essential to what I am about to say but I point it out. 
When we read those words 'takes the benefit ... of any law' and apply them to the Bankruptcy Act we find that the Bankruptcy Act deals not just with debtors, people who owe money to others. The word 'debtor' means a person who is unable to pay his debts, as they become due, out of his own moneys. That has a specific meaning. I guess we are all debtors in one sense, but I hope that none of us is so unfortunate as to be a debtor in the sense in which that section defines that word. That again is an important matter and it is relevant to what I referred to earlier, namely, that there is no evidence before this House to suggest that the honourable member for Macarthur was at any relevant time a person who was unable to pay his debts as they became due out of his own moneys. That in itself is not basic to what I am saying, but I point it out to honourable members. 
The basic point to understand is that this Act applies to people who find themselves unable to pay their debts as they become due. Section 188 of the Bankruptcy Act speaks of a debtor (being such a person) who desires that his affairs be dealt with 'under this Part' without his estate being sequestrated. Again it emphasises that it is a person taking the benefit of this Act, that is, taking benefit by way of a deed of arrangement. He or she can enter into a deed of arrangement if he or she so wishes, but it must be in accordance with the Act. I do not want to take the House through the various provisions of the Act, but it does contain technical provisions for the execution of the deed following a meeting of the creditors. There is provision for the appointment of a trustee. It is made quite clear that a deed of arrangement is a particular document which is executed by the trustee and by a person called a debtor. The honourable member for Macarthur at no time purported to act as a debtor within the meaning of Part X of the Bankruptcy Act. That is quite clear. What honourable members opposite are seeking to do, with respect, is to convict him for a course of action which he did not take but might have taken. They are seeking to do that instead of concentrating on the basically important issue, and that is what in fact he did. 
Judgments have been referred to. The judgment of  Mr Justice  Riley has been referred to. That judgment raised the question of the validity of the deeds of arrangement. We should read in association with those deeds the deed that  Mr Baume  executed. Let us be clear about the fact that he did not execute a deed of arrangement. That is quite clear. He executed another deed; it was not a deed of arrangement. Honourable members opposite can call it a deed of arrangement if they want to do so, but I can assure them that it is not a deed of arrangement within the meaning of the law. It was not so treated before  Mr Justice  Riley. There is no basis on which it can be asserted to be a deed of arrangement. One might say that it was a deed executed contemporaneously with a deed of arrangement but not executed by him as a debtor under this Act as a deed of arrangement. If honourable gentlemen opposite wish to assert simply that it is a deed of arrangement, I think they will find it very difficult to back up that assertion. Section 233 of the Bankruptcy Act provides: 
1 ) A deed of arrangement that is entered into in accordance with this Pan and complies with the requirements of this Part is, upon being duly executed by the debtor and the trustee, binding on all the creditors of the debtor. 
That section gives force and effect to those eleven deeds of arrangement which were executed by the 1 1 partners of Patrick Partners. None of those deeds was executed by  Mr Baume. 
None of the deeds was executed by  Mr Baume. 
-I repeat that no deed of arrangement within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act was executed by the honourable member for Macarthur. That is quite clear. 
That is not disputed. No assertion has been made anywhere that he executed a deed of arrangement. The honourable member cannot say otherwise, with very great respect. To say otherwise is to mislead the House. He did not sign a deed of arrangement. 
-I ask that the honourable member for Corio be requested to withdraw that remark. 
The point which I put through you,  Mr Speaker-I  do not want to trouble about the interjections- is that under section 233 of the Bankruptcy Act a deed of arrangement which is entered into in accordance with the Act and which complies with the requirements of Part X is, when executed by the debtor, binding on all creditors. I have already made the point that the honourable member for 
Macarthur was never a debtor within the meaning of the Act. He never executed a deed of arrangement. The Act says that upon a deed being duly executed it is binding on all the creditors of the debtor. I refer to that simply to indicate to honourable members how it was that, by virtue of the execution of the deeds of arrangement by the 1 1 Patrick partners, clause 9 of that deed became binding on the creditors. Of course, that had the effect of enabling the settlement of disputes between the honourable member for Macarthur and the trustee. They were settled in a way which was thought to be advantageous to the creditors of Patrick Partners. I do not want to say any more about that matter; I simply want to explain to honourable members how the deed executed by the honourable member for Macarthur became relevant. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  proposed: 
That the Attorney-General be granted an extension of time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Having referred to section 233 and indicated its relevance, I now return to section 45 of the Constitution. I remind honourable members that it states: 
If a senator or member of the House of Representatives- 
Takes the benefit, whether by assignment, composition, or otherwise, of any law relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors ... his place shall thereupon become vacant. 
The question is: Has the honourable member for Macarthur, on the facts as we known them, taken the benefit- not on the facts as they might have been, but on the facts as they occurred, with the deeds executed by the 1 1 Patrick Partners and with the deed executed by the honourable member for Macarthur? That is the question. As I said at the beginning, this is basically a question of interpretation and the application of the Constitution to those facts. 
The matter has been considered by the Solicitor-General and myself and we have approached it on the basis of the facts as we understand them. We have set them out in a joint opinion. Having considered the facts, we have formed a firm opinion that the place of the honourable member has not become vacant. I table in the House our joint opinion on the matter. It is a considered opinion and I say to members of the House that it is a firm opinion. The honourable member for Macarthur has made available to me a copy of an opinion which he obtained from a previous Attorney-General, who I believe is well respected-  Mr Hughes,  Queen's Counsel.  Mr Hughes  also expresses a firm view that the seat of the honourable member for Macarthur has not become vacant. Another opinion obtained by the honourable member for Macarthur at an earlier stage- in April 1976- from junior counsel,  Mr David  Bennett of the New South Wales Bar, is to the same effect. I also table those opinions. 
I do so simply on the basis that inevitably in a debate in this House, honourable members opposite would want to say the sorts of things they have said already this morning. They have tried to throw up some doubt based on some emotive approach to the facts in this particular case. Of course this is designed to put the honourable member for Macarthur in a position he should not be put in. With very great respect, honourable members opposite should accept the proposition that this question of law is quite clear and has been quite clearly answered. There is no need for the matter to be referred to the Court of Disputed Returns. Therefore, the Government wants this matter to be decided by this House. 
in reply- I thank honourable members for the way in which they have participated in the debate and for the very kind words which, at times, they have said about the Attorney-General. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred to the Kerr committee and to the members of that committee. As is quite clear from the attitude of the Opposition at this time the recommendations of the committee have, in effect, been adopted by the Parliament. I pay tribute to those who served on that committee, namely,  Sir John  Kerr,  Sir Anthony  Mason, who is now a Justice of the High Court, and Professor Harry Whitmore. I particularly mention Professor Harry Whitmore because he is a leading authority on the subject of administrative law not only in Australia but also in the rest of the world. 
I know from my own participation in that committee that he made a great contribution to it and, of course, to the final report. It is also a fact that he became a member of what is called the Bland committee which ultimately recommended an ombudsman and which also looked at the form which administrative appeals should take in the Commonwealth area. I take this opportunity to place on record the appreciation of the House and of successive governments of the work in this field of the persons I have mentioned. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith asked why some but not all documents which were the subject of production against the question of privilege might be shown to one party as against another. That was put in simply to recognise the fact that there could be odd occasions when the Administrative Appeals Tribunal felt that it was in the interests of justice that a particular party should have access to the documents or perhaps an intervenor who might be there should not have access to them. It was simply to provide against that eventuality that that matter was put in the Bill. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  raised some questions which I appreciate. He asked: Are we engaged in the exercise of extending the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The House will recall that when the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act was first brought into the House by the previous Government it did not have any schedules. In Opposition we took the view that schedules ought to be put into the Bill. They were ultimately inserted, by agreement, I think in the Senate. This piece of legislation was then given some teeth. Since it has been brought into operation in July last year, and indeed before that, there has been a successive consideration of Commonwealth Acts and regulations. That is still going on. The purpose is to ensure that as many discretions as possible which can be made the subject of review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal will be included by regulation within the scope of the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Another question which has arisen- and the honourable member for St George mentioned it- is a continuing review of the operation of the Tribunal. I remind the honourable member that the Administrative Review Council has been set up, as proposed in the recommendations of the Kerr Committee, to make sure that the workings of the Ombudsman, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, and any other area of administrative law, are operating adequately. It is for that reason that we have the fortune to have a high powered and representative committee to do just that. Needless to say, the Parliament can be its own watchdog in this area, as well as the Council and, if I may say so, the AttorneyGeneral. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  raised a number of questions. The Bills to which he referred- the Life Insurance Amendment Bill and the Insurance Amendment Billwere debated in this House some weeks ago. They then went on to the Senate, and I understand they are about to become law. However, I do not think that should give the honourable member reason to be apprehensive. In fact some attempt was made in those Bills to deal with the questions he brought forward. For instance, clause 24 of the Insurance Amendment Bill, which inserts a new section 63 in the Insurance Act, provides in part: 
In giving a direction as to the persons who are to constitute the Tribunal for the purposes of a review of a reviewable decision of the Treasurer or the Commissioner, or for the purposes of a request under sub-section 41 (2) of the  Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act  197S in respect of such a decision, the  President  shall ensure that each nonpresidential member of the Tribunal as so constituted is a person who, in the opinion of the  President,  has special knowledge or skill in relation to the insurance business. 
That is the whole purpose of a number of the amendments to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. There is no question that the intention is to ensure that the Tribunal will have on it people appropriate to the particular task, and it is desired to have them sit in various tiers so that that sort of expertise may be available. It may be that in some, indeed many, matters the  President  will not sit. Let me say at the outset that he could not possibly sit in all matters if what is proposed comes about. For instance, if this Tribunal takes over some social security appeals, appeals under the Life Insurance Act and the Insurance Act, and repatriation appeals it would be impossible for the  President  to deal with them. As an example, I think that there are 10 000 appeals every year under the Repatriation Act That highlights the fact that the purpose of these amendments is to so structure the Administrative Appeals Tribunal that it will be adequate to the task and be able to sit in the tiers that are necessary for it to do so. I bring those matters to the attention of the honourable member for Hawker. The honourable member also raised the question of the Tribunal not being able to publish its reasons. So far as I can gather from my reading of the insurance Bills, there is nothing there to prevent the Tribunal publishing its reasons. I can see no reason at the moment why it cannot publish its decisions. There are provisions which deal with holding the proceedings in private, but at the same time there are provisions, so far as the hearing is concerned, enabling the Tribunal to loosen that and to say who can be present and so on. 
In concluding the second reading debate on this matter, I add that in a sense this is an historic occasion. It brings to fruition a very broadranging system of administrative law in this country. Some amendments of a technical and procedural character will be proposed, but at this stage I simply again commend the Bill to the House. I seek leave to continue the debate at a later hour this day. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I seek leave to move amendments numbered 1 to 9 which relate to clauses 12, 17, 18 and 19. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (MrGiles)-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 12. 
Section 2 1 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (1 ) and substituting the following sub-sections: 
1 ) Subject to sub-section ( 1a), the Tribunal shall, for the purpose of the exercise of its powers in relation to a matter, be constituted by- 
a presidential member and 2 non-presidential members; 
a presidential member alone; 
3 non-presidential members of whom at least one is a senior non-presidential member; or 
a senior non-presidential member alone. (1a) For the purpose of the exercise of the powers of the Tribunal under sub-section 29 (4) or (6), section 31, subsection 35 (2) or 37 (2) or section 38 or 42a, the Tribunal shall be constituted- 
where the hearing of the relevant proceeding has not commenced- 
if a direction has not been given under section 20 as to the members who are to constitute the Tribunal for the purposes of that proceeding-by a presidential member, 
if such a direction has been given and the direction requires the Tribunal to be constituted by one member only- by that member; or 
if such a direction has been given and the direction requires the Tribunal to be constituted by more than one member- by the member who is to preside at the hearing of that proceeding; 
where the hearing of the relevant proceeding has commenced- by the members by whom the Tribunal is constituted for the purposes of that proceeding; or 
where the exercise of the powers is related to the institution of a proceeding before the Tribunal- by a presidential member.'. 
Clause 17. 
Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) the words 'and the reasons for the decision' and substituting the words referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based and giving the reasons for the decision , and 
For the purposes of sub-section (1), the prescribed period is the period commencing on the day on which the decision is made and ending on the twenty-eighth day after the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision is furnished to the applicant. '. 
Clause 18. 
Section 29 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted:- 29. ( 1) An application to the Tribunal for a review of a decision- 
shall be in writing; 
may be made in accordance with the prescribed form; 
shall set out a statement of the reasons for the application; and 
shall be lodged with the Tribunal within the prescribed time. 
3 ) In the case of a decision that is deemed to be made by reason of the operation of sub-section 25 (5), the prescribed time for the purposes of paragraph ( 1 ) (d) is the period commencing on the day on which the decision is deemed to be made and ending- 
in a case to which paragraph (b) does not apply- on the twenty-eighth day after that day; or 
in the case where the person whose failure to do an act or thing within a particular period is deemed by sub-section 25 (5) to constitute the making of the decision makes or purports to make, after the expiration of that period, a decision either to do or not to do that act or thing- on the twenty-eighth day after- 
if the decision sets out the findings on material questions of fact and the reasons for the decision-the day on which a document setting out the terms of the decision is furnished to the applicant; or 
if the decision does not set out those findings and reasons-the day that would be ascertained under paragraph (2) (b) if sub-section (2) were applicable in relation to the decision. 
Clause 19. 
Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1) the word 'The' (first occurring) and substituting the words 'Subject to paragraph 42a (2)(b), the'. 
-I move: 
In clause 12, proposed sub-section (1a), after '29', insert(3a). 
In clause 17, before paragraph (a), insert the following paragraph:- (aa) by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) the words "within the prescribed period"; '. 
3 ) In clause 1 7, at end of paragraph ( a), omit' and '. 
In clause 17, after paragraph (a), insert the following paragraph:- (ab) by inserting after sub-section ( 1 ) the following subsections: "( 1 a) A person to whom a request for a statement in relation to a decision is made under sub-section ( 1 ) may refuse to prepare and furnish the statement if- 
in the case of a decision the terms of which were recorded in writing and set out in a document that was furnished to the applicant- the request was not made on or before the twenty-eighth day after the day on which that document was furnished to the applicant; or 
b) in any other case- the request was not made within a reasonable time after the decision was made, and in any such case the person to whom the request was made shall give to the applicant, within 14 days after receiving the request, notice in writing stating that the statement will not be furnished to him and giving the reason why the statement will not be so furnished. "(1b) For the purposes of paragraph (1a) (b), a request for a statement in relation to a decision shall be deemed to have been made within a reasonable time after the decision was made if the Tribunal, on application by the person who made the request, declares that the request was made within a reasonable time after the decision was made. "; and '. 
In clause 17, omit proposed sub-section (5). 
In clause 18, in proposed section 29 (1) (d), before shall', insert 'if the terms of the decision were recorded in writing and set out in a document that was furnished to the applicant or the decision is deemed to be made by reason of the operation of sub-section 25 (5)-'. 
In clause 18, in proposed section 29 (3) (b) after thing', insert ', being a decision the terms of which were recorded in writing and set out in a document that was furnished to the applicant'. 
In clause 18, after proposed sub-section (3), insert the following sub-sections: -  "(3a) Where- 
no time is prescribed for the lodging with the Tribunal of applications for review of a particular decision; or 
no time is prescribed for the lodging with the Tribunal by a particular person of an application for a review of a particular decision, and the Tribunal is of the opinion that the application was not lodged within a reasonable time after the decision was made, the Tribunal shall, subject to sub-section (3C)- 
in a case to which paragraph (a) applies- refuse to entertain an application for a review of the decision referred to in that paragraph; or 
in a case to which paragraph (b) applies- refuse to entertain an application by the person referred to in that paragraph for a review of the decision so referred to. "(3b) In forming an opinion for the purposes of subsection (3a), the Tribunal shall have regard to- 
the time when the applicant became aware of the making of the decision; and 
in a case to which paragraph (3a) (b) applies- the period or periods prescribed for the lodging by another person or other persons of an application or applications for review of the decision, and may have regard to any other matters that it considers relevant. "(3c) Notwithstanding sub-section (3b), the Tribunal may entertain an application referred to in that sub-section if it is of the opinion that there are special circumstances that justify it in doing so. ' '. '. 
9) Omit clause 1 9, substitute the following clause:- 
Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the word "The" (first occurring) and substituting the words "Subject to paragraph 42A(2)(b), the"; and 
by omitting from paragraph (c) of sub-section ( 1 ) the words "any other person who was entitled to apply to the Tribunal for a review of the decision," and substituting the words "any other person (including the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth) whose interests are affected by the decision and who".'. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, a number of these amendments are consequential upon two or three substantial amendments. But the amendments in toto are matters of procedure. Basically they arise out of the problem that sometimes reasons may be called for, reasons may not be called for or they may not be given or no notice may be given in certain circumstances of decisions. Where action is taken in relation to seeking either reasons or a review of a decision, it was felt that some amendments should be made in order to cover that type of situation. The amendment No. (4)- clause 17 of the Bill- amends section 28 ( 1 ) of the principal Act. It entitles a person to apply within a prescribed time to a decision-maker to obtain reasons for a decision. This provision does not work satisfactorily when a person who may be affected by a decision is not notified of the decision when it is made. The new sub-sections lA and lB which it is proposed to insert into section 28 have the effect that a decision-maker may refuse to give reasons if, first, a person who has been notified in writing of the decision does not apply for reasons within 28 days of being so notified and, second, a person who has not been notified in writing of the decision does not apply for reasons within a reasonable time. The Tribunal is to be empowered to determine the question whether the application for reasons has been made within a reasonable time. 
The amendment numbered (6)- clause 18 of the Bill- has the effect of setting the prescribed time limit of 28 days for applying to the Tribunal for a review of the decision only where the applicant for review has received written notification of the decision or the decision-maker has failed to make the decision within the time allowed by law for the making of that decision. The other substantial amendment is that numbered (8)- clause 18 of the Bill. The new sub-sections proposed to be inserted by this amendment provide for cases where first a prescribed time within which an application must be made to the Tribunal for the review of the particular decision does not apply because no person was given written notice of the decision; and, second, the person seeking review had not himself been furnished with written notice of that decision although such a notice had been furnished to another person. In either case the application for review may be rejected by the Tribunal unless it has been made within a reasonable time after the making of the decision or the Tribunal is of the opinion that there are special circumstances that would justify it in entertaining the application for review. The purpose of the amendment numbered (9)-clause 19 of the Bill-is to permit a person in whose favour a decision has been made to intervene in proceedings before the Tribunal in which that decision is challenged by some other person.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for those reasons I have moved the amendments standing in my name. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  raises a point which relates to the Life Insurance Amendment Bill and the Insurance Amendment Bill. As I indicated in my reply in the second reading debate, it is open to  the Tribunal to publish its reasons for a decision in either case. However, I will have the honourable member's question looked at and I will draw it to the attention of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to see whether any step can be taken in relation to it or whether there is any step which the Government thinks ought to be taken in relation to it. I will certainly have examined the problem which the honourable member raised. 
I follow precisely what the honourable member means and I merely restate the undertaking that I gave him. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I have 11 amendments. I seek leave to move those 1 1 amendments together. They relate to clauses 3, 9, 1 1 ,  1 3 and 1 9. 
-I move: 
1 ) In clause 3 in the definition 'Decision to which this Act applies', omit 'or a decision that is included in a class of decisions that are declared by the regulations to be decisions to which this Act does not apply'. 
In clause 11 (1)(c), omit '(other than a decision by way of a report or recommendation) that has been made, including a decision', substitute 'that has been made and the terms of which were recorded in writing and set out in a document that was furnished to the applicant, including such a decision'. 
In clause 1 1, after sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clauses: (3a) Where- 
no period is prescribed for the making of applications for orders of review in relation to a particular decision; or 
no period is prescribed for the making of an application by a particular person for an order of review in relation to a particular decision, the Court may- 
in a case to which paragraph (a) applies- refuse to entertain an application for an order of review in relation to the decision referred to in that paragraph; or 
in a case to which paragraph (b) applies- refuse to entertain an application by the person referred to in that paragraph for an order of review in relation to the decision so referred to, if the Court is of the opinion that the application was not made within a reasonable time after the decision was made. (3B) In forming an opinion for the purposes of subsection (3a), the Court shall have regard to- 
the time when the applicant became aware of the making of the decision; and 
in a case to which paragraph (3a) (b) applies- the period or periods prescribed for the making by another person or other persons of an application or applications for an order or orders of review in relation to the decision, and may have regard to such other matters as it considers relevant.'. 
In clause 13(1), omit 'within the prescribed period '. 
In clause 13 (2), omitsub-section (3), substitute'this ssection'. 
In clause 13, after sub-clause (4), insert the following sub-clauses:- (4a) A person to whom a request for a statement in relation to a decision is made under sub-section ( 1 ) may refuse to prepare and furnish the statement if- 
in the case of a decision the terms of which were recorded in writing and set out in a document that was furnished to the person who made the requestthe request was not made on or before the twentyeighth day after the day on which that document was so furnished; or 
b ) in any other case- the request was not made within a reasonable time after the decision was made, and in any such case the person to whom the request was made shall give to the person who made the request, within 14 days after receiving the request, notice in writing stating that the statement will not be furnished to him and giving the reason why the statement will not be so furnished. (4B) For the purposes of paragraph (4a) (b), a request for a statement in relation to a decision shall be deemed to have been made within a reasonable time after the decision was made if the Court, on application by the person who made the request, declares that the request was made within a reasonable time after the decision was made. '. 
In clause 13, omit sub-clause (7). 
8) In clause 1 9, omit sub-clause ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-clauses: 
1 ) The regulations may declare a class or classes of decisions to be decisions that are not subject to judicial review by the Court under this Act. (1a) If a regulation is so made in relation to a class of decisions- 
section5 does not apply in relation to a decision included in that class; 
section 6 does not apply in relation to conduct that has been, is being, or is proposed to be, engaged in for the purpose of making a decision included in that class; and 
section 7 does not apply in relation to a failure to make a decision included in that class, but the making of the regulation does not affect the exclusion by section 9 of the jurisdiction of the courts of the States in relation to such a decision, such conduct or such a failure. '. 
In clause 3 in the definition 'enactment' part (a) after Act', insert 'other than the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act 1970'. 
10) In clause 3 in the definition 'enactment' part (c) before ' an Act ', insert ' such '. 
1 1 ) In clause 9(1), omit 'section 39 of the Judiciary Act 1903', substitute 'anything contained in any Act other than this Act'. 
These are procedural amendments, some of which are consequential. I shall deal with those which are more substantial, even though they are all procedural. The Bill provides that classes of decisions may be excluded by regulation from its ambit. Decisions so excluded are therefore excluded from those decisions referred to in the Bill as 'decisions to which this Act applies'. As the Bill stands, one result of excluding a class of decisions by regulation is that the supervisory jurisdiction of the State courts, otherwise excluded by clause 9, revives. That is because clause 9 excludes that jurisdiction only in relation to a decision to which the Act applies. The first amendment, which seeks to amend clause 3, together with the amendment I have moved to clause 19, would have the result that excluding a class of decisions by regulations does not have the effect of reviving the supervisory jurisdiction of State courts which, honourable members will recall, we are seeking to be rid of under clause 9. The supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court of Australia under section 75 (v) of the Constitution would, of course, remain unaffected. 
The second amendment is to clause 1 1. Clause 1 1 would require an application for review of a decision, other than a decision made by way of a report or recommendation, to be made within a prescribed period. The prescribed period is specified in sub-clause (3) of clause 11. The period of 28 days would begin to run from the day on which the person who seeks the review of the decision was notified in writing of the decision. These provisions would make no provision for the time within which application for review should be made where the person seeking review has not been notified in writing of the decision. The effect of this amendment is that the prescribed period of 28 days does not apply where the person seeking review was not notified in writing of the decision. 
I now turn to amendment No. 3. The new subsections proposed to be inserted by this amendment provide for the cases where, first, the prescribed period of 28 days for applying for review of a decision does not apply because no person was given written notice of the decision, and secondly, the person seeking review had not himself been furnished with written notice of the decision, although such a notice had been given to some other person. In either case, the application for review may be rejected by the court unless it has been made within a reasonable time after the making of the decision. 
I draw the attention of the Committee to amendment No. 6. The purpose of clause 13 is to give a person entitled to apply to the court for a review of a decision the right to be given written reasons for the decision. This is a most important amendment. The effect of the new sub-clauses inserted by this amendment would be that a request for reasons may be refused by the decision-maker where, firstly, the person requesting reasons had been notified in writing of the decision and had not made his request within 28 days of being so notified; and secondly, the person requesting reasons had not been notified in writing of the decision and had not made his request within a reasonable time after the decision was made. The court is to be empowered to rule on the question whether a request was made within a reasonable time or not. 
The purpose of the additional amendments Nos 1 to 3 is to exclude from the ambit of the Bill decisions of State officials exercising powers under State laws applied in relation to Commonwealth places by the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 26 December, I announced that the Government proposed to establish a Human Rights Commission that would examine laws and practices and report on whether they were inconsistent with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The Government is developing these proposals in consultation with the State governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statutory Rules 1971 No. 112, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Regulations, provide, in substance, that benefits of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act 1 97 1 are to extend to persons rendering assistance to a prescribed Commonwealth officer in the performance of his duty at the request of that officer or in the honest and reasonable belief that the assistance was necessary for the performance by the officer of his duty'. 
For this purpose the term 'prescribed Commonwealth officer' includes a Commonwealth Police Officer, members of the Police Force of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, sheriffs and sheriffs' officers of those two Territories and officers of Customs. 
The Criminal Injuries Compensation Act 1976 (Tasmania) provides for payment of compensation, and the Queensland Criminal Code Amendment Act 1968 for ex gratia payments, in similar circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 am informed that decisions on the nature of art works have not yet been made. Seven Australian artists are currently working on proposals for works of art for the building in the following categories: wall art: The large walls of Courts Two and Three facing into the Public Hall will be the location for the principal work of art. The form that this will take has not been determined but there is scope for selecting from a wide range of items including paintings, tapestries and works in ceramics, glass, metal or other media. court room doors: The two pairs of doors for entering each Court offer the potential to be works of art. carpet emblem: An emblem could be woven into the carpeted area which extends from the Ceremonial Court into the Public Hall. 
The estimated cost of the works of art is $ 100,000. 
OECD Economic Survey of Australia (Question No. 292) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Preliminary discussions have been held with the States but discussions on the matter have not yet been concluded. 
The Government is discussing with the States its proposal to establish a Human Rights Commission that would examine laws and practices and report on whether they are inconsistent with the Covenant. The Government will give further consideration to the proposal that Australia ratify the Covenant when the discussions with the States have been concluded. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Ordinance 1972 I present the annual reports of the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Committee for the years ended June 1974 and June 1975, together with financial statements and reports of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3): Tables 1-5 set out information available to my Department. I am informed that in several instances, insufficient information is available to my Department to show the age on cessation of duty and/or death of a judge. 
Table 6 sets out the information as requested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
Department of the Attorney-General: Payments into Testamentary and Trust Fund  (Question No. 303) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Deparetment. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propse to answer it. 
Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory: Imperial Statute of Limitations  (Question No.  512) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
Imperial Foreign Tribunal Evidence Act and Evidence by Commission Act (Question No. 539) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that this question was prepared by an officer of my Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has two main purposes: To establish a Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission to operate in conjunction with State and Territorial Legal Aid Commissions; and to provide for the preservation of the rights of staff of the Australian Legal Aid Office who transfer to State and territorial commissions. The Bill is a basic element in the Government's announced policy to establish a comprehensive legal aid scheme in Australia involving a co-operative exercise between the Commonwealth and the States in the provision of legal aid. Under the scheme, legal aid will be provided in each State and Territory through a single independent statutory commission, established by legislation in each State or Territory. It is intended that each State Commission will take over the existing Australian Legal Aid Offices and any State or law society schemes in that State. The Territory Commission would do likewise. In accordance with the Government's policy of self-management by Aborigines, the Aboriginal Legal Aid Services will continue to operate separately. 
Honourable members will observe that under the Bill the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission will have an advisory, co-ordinating and monitoring role in the comprehensive scheme. The new arrangements will eliminate duplication and confusion in the minds of the public caused by the present multiplicity of schemes. It is the Government's intention to maintain a continuing and direct involvement in the delivery of legal aid. This financial year it is estimated that the amount expended on legal aid other than Aboriginal legal aid will total $ 17.95m. This is 43 per cent more than the amount expended in the previous year. The continuing interest of the Commonwealth in the quality and economy of the provision of legal aid in the Federal area will be given effect to in the following ways: Firstly, there will be a formal agreement between the Commonwealth and each State under which the Commonwealth will provide funds for the provision by the State legal aid commission of legal aid in the Federal area. Secondly, the legislation establishing State and territorial commissions will require them to have regard to the recommendations of the Commonwealth Commission in providing legal aid in the Federal area. Thirdly, the Commonwealth will have a nominee- ordinarily a member of the staff of the Commonwealth Commission- on each State and territorial commission and a small expert staff that will monitor the provision of aid, conduct research, maintain statistics and examine the needs of the various commissions within budgetary limitations. 
I would also like to emphasise that it is the Government's intention that the provision of legal aid through salaried officers should continue. Many of the initiatives in legal aid have come through the work in recent years of salaried officers in the Australian Legal Aid Office. Amongst these are the shopfront, the duty lawyer and the mobile lawyer service. The staff of these offices have performed and will continue to perform a very valuable community service. I know that honourable members value the relationship they have built up with the legal aid offices in or near their electorate. The salaried service is now an acknowledged pan of legal aid. 
I shall now deal with the Bill. Under the functions set out in Part II of the Bill the Commonwealth Commission will keep under review the extent of the need for legal assistance in Australia and will make recommendations from time to time to the Attorney-General as to the most effective, economical and desirable means of satisfying that need. It will make recommendations to the Attorney-General and to legal aid commissions of States and Territories concerning the provision of legal assistance by those means in respect of Commonwealth matters. The Commission will be a monitoring body. It will collect and publish statistics concerning the operation of legal aid. It will report to the Attorney-General on the financing of legal aid commissions of States and Territories. It will, as requested by the Attorney-General, report as to the provision by the Commonwealth of financial assistance to legal aid commissions. It will also have power to determine applications for the provision of legal aid in specialised areas referred to it. 
Under Part II, the Commission will be constituted by a  chairman,  a  deputy chairman  and 6 other members reflecting the various interests involved in legal aid. The  chairman  will be a judge or a former judge or a lawyer of eminence. Two members will be nominated by the AttorneyGeneral, two by the State Attorneys-General, one by the Law Council of Australia and one by the Australian Council of Social Service. I envisage that, by arrangement among the AttorneysGeneral of the States, the 2 members nominated by them will be drawn from each State in turn and will serve for an appropriate term of office agreed with the Attorney-General. All the commissioners except the  deputy chairman  will hold office on a part-time basis. 
Considerable progress has been made towards implementing the comprehensive scheme in discussions at ministerial and officer level between the Commonwealth and the States and I have had discussions with the executive of the Law Council of Australia to explain the Government's plans and to enlist the support of the private legal profession. Two States- Western Australia and South Australia- have already passed Acts to establish State commissions to operate in conjunction with the Commonwealth Commission. Discussions will take place with the Attorney-General of each of these States with regard to amendments to these Acts thought by the Commonwealth to be desirable. I expect that ordinances to establish commissions will be made in the Australian Capital Territory and the 
Northern Territory by July or August this year. It is my hope that, before the end of the next financial year, legislation to establish commissions will have been passed in all States. 
Honourable members will recall that I have previously stated the Government's intention that salaried lawyers should have an acknowledged role in the delivery of legal aid. This was confirmed in the draft Territory ordinance circulated in March last. Thus Part IV of the Bill seeks to preserve the rights of ALAO staff who transfer to State and territorial commissions. It does this in 2 ways: Firstly, by requiring certain minimum terms and conditions to be included in any arrangement for the transfer of ALAO staff; and, secondly, by applying the second tier of the revised officers' rights declaration scheme to staff transferred. 
Honourable members will see that these provisions give effect to the statements that I have made in this House- and to undertakings that I have myself given to ALAO staff- that arrangements for their transfer to State and Territorial Commissions will be on the basis of terms and conditions of service no less favourable than those they presently enjoy. 
The terms and conditions that, under Part IV, must be included in any such arrangement are the basic rights to present salary, leave and superannuation entitlements. These are minimum conditions only and, in discussions with staff associations and the States, the Commonwealth will be seeking to have included in any arrangement the preservation of various other rights such as those dealing with allowances, increments and probationary service. ALAO staff will not be asked to elect concerning transfer to a State or Territorial Commission until a satisfactory arrangement has been concluded by the Commonwealth in the relevant State or Territory and the staff are fully informed about the terms and conditions that will apply to them. 
The second tier of the revised Officers' Rights Declaration scheme is part of a proposal developed by the Joint Council of the Australian Public Service-a consultative body of staff and management- to replace the existing Officers' Rights Declaration Act. Part IV of the Bill makes interim provision for the application of the second tier to ALAO staff transferred to State and Territorial Commissions pending the introduction by the Government during the Budget sittings of legislation to implement the full scheme for the whole of the Australian Public Service. Under part IV, ALAO staff transferred may seek transfer to or promotion in the Australian Public 
Service-and may appeal against provisional promotions- as if they had remained members of that Service. They will also have access to special re-entry provisions should their employment with a State or Territorial Commission be compulsorily terminated. 
To meet the concern of ALAO staff about their career prospects in legal aid, I am asking State Attorneys-General to include a provision in State legislation enabling Legal Aid Commissions to make reciprocal arrangements with each other for transfer of staff. Similar provision would be made in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Part V of the Bill provides, in effect, for progressive repeal of Commonwealth legislation referring to the Legal Service Bureaus and the ALAO as State and Territorial Commissions take over their functions. It also provides for the staff of the Commission to be employed under the Public Service Act 1922. The Commission will be required to provide an annual report to Parliament. 
The delivery of legal aid services to those in need is a continuing aim of the Government. The provision of that aid requires, in effect, a partnership between the relevant governments, the legal profession including private and salaried lawyers, and the community. There is a need for all to be involved. This Bill provides an important part of the framework within which that partnership will be conducted. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I will look into the question that the honourable gentleman has asked. I do think that there has been some misconception as to the effect of the High Court's decision. The High Court did not decide that Miss Karen Green was entitled to unemployment benefit. Indeed, the High Court could not so decide. As I think the honourable gentleman would well know, the High Court cannot replace the discretion of the Director-General with its own. All that the High Court could say was that the Director-General in the circumstances had taken into account a matter that he should not have taken into account. That was, in substance, the effect of  Mr Justice  Stephen's judgment. I will look into the question of the advice given and see whether, in the circumstances of this case, it should be tabled. 
My difficulty is that I cannot table the advice because it was oral. The advice given in this matter was given in part by the Solicitor-General and in part, I understand, by the Crown Solicitor. I did not participate in the giving of that advice. The Solicitor-General went overseas recently and is now overseas. I have not been able to speak to him and therefore I am not able to confirm what advice he may have given. On the other hand, I can only assume that the advice he gave would have been consistent with the judgment. I have indicated already- I think I indicated it yesterday- that the purport of the judgment was not to find that Karen Green was entitled to unemployment benefits but to find that she was entitled to a declaration that the Director-General, in effect, had taken into account something which he should not have taken into account; or alternatively, that he should have taken into account matters which he had not taken into account. I think that is summed up in part of the judgment where  Mr Justice  Stephen said: 
If, as I find to be the case, the plaintiff's claim to unemployment benefit was not considered as section 107 contemplates that it should be, the plaintiff is, I think, entitled to some relief. 
He went on to say that she was not entitled to all the relief. Under section 107 of the Social Services Act, the Director-General had to be satisfied as at 20 December last that Karen 
Green had, amongst other things, taken reasonable steps to obtain work. 
One of the questions that arose for the Director-General s consideration in relation to this matter after the judgment was as to the facts that he should take into account. One approach would have been to say: 'I shall take into account such facts as I in fact knew on 20 December'. Another approach would have been to say: 'I will take into account all facts including those that I knew at 20 December and such other facts as may have been revealed, say, in the High Court proceedings. ' I am told by the Crown Solicitor that the advice he gave orally recently to the Director-General was that the DirectorGeneral should take into account all the facts as known to him on 20 December, the date of the application, or which became known to him subsequently that were relevant to the question of whether, as at 20 December 1976, Karen Green had in effect taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. 
I am further informed that the DirectorGeneral acted in accordance with that advice; that is to say, he gave consideration to all the facts and came to a decision based on those facts. That was the decision he published the other day. The precise decision, that is, the substance of the decision, was not something that was advised to him by the Crown Solicitor because that was a matter peculiarly for the DirectorGeneral. The Crown Solicitor only went so far as to say that if he were to give a decision which did go to the contrary, that is, that she was not entitled, it could be in the form of the document which in fact was published. One has to emphasise in relation to this matter that the decision related only to Karen Green and not to others. 
-In answer to the honourable member's speech, may I say that I am after all the Attorney-General and the adviser to the Commissioner for Community Relations. Therefore I do not want to comment on anything raised about the honourable member's personal involvement in this matter or on the legality or otherwise of it. I am sure that the honourable member would not want me to trespass in that area. Later today I will be introducing into the Parliament a Bill to establish a human rights commission. Associated with that measure will be amendments to the Racial Discrimination Act. I can only say to the honourable gentleman that in the course of preparing those amendments I will take into account the point that he has raised. Under the Racial Discrimination Act as it is presently framed the Commissioner for Community Relations on receipt of a complaint which has, of course, to come from the person aggrieved or affected by the incident complained about, does have the power to refuse to entertain a complaint on certain grounds. 
It is not explicitly stated, and perhaps it should be explicitly stated, that where he is of the opinion that the complaint does not constitute a complaint under the Act he ought of his own motion be able to decline to proceed with it. My inclination is to think that he has that power now but it would be better if it were stated expressly. As I understand the honourable gentleman's question, he wants to have some right of appeal in relation to the matter. In that respect, again I can only say to him that I will give attention to it when considering amendments to the Racial Discrimination Act. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish a Human Rights Commission in Australia. The major purpose of the Commission is to ensure that Commonwealth and Territory laws, acts and practices conform with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The Bill will give individuals a specific right to complain. It will vest in the Commission functions under other Acts, such as the Racial Discrimination Act, relating to human rights. Before elaborating in greater detail on the different aspects of the Commission's work, I would first like to outline some matters that affect the Government's proposals. At an international level, human rights issues have been and continue to be of great significance to Australia. Recently we were elected as a member of the United Nations Human Rights Commission. On 18 December 1972 Australia signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Government's aim is that Australia should ratify the Covenant as soon as this is practicable. 
On the domestic level, human rights questions are obviously of concern to the whole of Australia. With this in mind the Government attaches great importance to joint discussions and arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. Both the Commonwealth and the States have their own areas of interest and it is important that there should be collaboration and co-ordination if human rights activities are to be carried out in the most effective manner. It is important that the human rights which Australians enjoy should be defined in such a way by the respective governments that the people in each State and Territory have substantially the same rights. There is a growing complexity of laws in Australia dealing with privacy and with discrimination of grounds of race, colour, sex and marital status and other laws. I do not suggest that identical laws need to be formulated but a basic aim which we should have in this area is to ensure that the human rights enjoyed by all Australians are substantially the same. 
One fundamental issue which has arisen in this area is whether the protection of human rights should be by way of a Bill of Rights. Such a Bill was introduced into this Parliament by the former Government. The Bill prompted a debate on whether it was the correct approach and opinions have been sharply divided on the issue. The Government has adopted the view that this is not the correct approach. There is of course a real question as to whether such a Bill would be valid. Even with the benefit of the decision of the High Court on the scope of the external affairs power in the seas and submerged lands case it must remain open to real doubt whether the High Court would uphold its validity. 
What are more significant however are the serious implications which such a Bill would have for our federal system of Government and our legal system. Because of the operation of section 109 of the Constitution, a Federal Bill of this kind would have the effect of introducing an entrenched Bill of Rights for the States although not, I should add, for the Commonwealth. It would bring about a fundamental change in the distribution of power between the Commonwealth and the States, and in the jurisdiction of federal and State courts. It would mean that all Commonwealth and State law, whether statute or common law, would have to be read subject to the Bill of Rights legislation. It would in some areas change dramatically the operation of State law, even procedural law. The exercise of jurisdiction by State courts would be affected in so far as their procedures did not comply with the Bill of Rights. Some State laws might even disappear leaving a vacuum or leaving the courts to fill the vacuum by judicial- type legislation. It is extremely doubtful whether the confusion and friction which this would produce is justified in the public interest particularly if there are other methods available of protecting human rights. 
Furthermore I believe it is fundamental in a democracy that our basic human rights should be defined by Parliament and not by judges. A Human Rights Bill of this character introduced by the previous Government would have left to judges a great field of judicial legislation as they defined in the judgments in particular cases the specific meaning to be given to the broad statements of principle contained in the Bill. 
What is needed in a community such as ours is a basic commitment to human rights. It is the strength of this attitude which will in part determine the sense of justice which the society possesses. If there is no positive commitment, forces in the community inevitably will treat the individual as less than human and without the respect which every true democracy must have for the individual. The forces that intrude on basic human rights can of course be the very forces that serve the individual in other respects- the Public Service, large corporations, trade unions and the like. 
The Government is committed to preserving human rights in this country. It does not however agree that it is necessary to have a Bill of Rights in order to do so. It does however believe that there should be administrative machinery, such as that involved in the establishment of a Human Rights Commission, through which our commitment to human rights can be demonstrated and constantly pursued. In the Government's view, there should be a case by case approach to human rights. This approach would deal with areas where human rights in Australia are not basically recognised or which need clarification or codification or would deal with instances where it is demonstrated by the complaints of individuals that existing laws or practices fail to observe basic human rights. The Criminal Investigation Bill is a clear indication of the Government's attitude. The privacy reference to the Law Reform Commission is another. 
The question might be asked whether the obligations that would be imposed by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights would require the introduction into Australian law of a Bill of Rights or Bills of Right. In the Government's view no requirement is made in the Covenant for action of this character. It is clear, I think, from the provisions of Article 2 of the Covenant that, while States Parties must provide effective and enforceable remedies for violations of rights recognised by the International Covenant, appropriate measures, other than legislative measures, may be taken. In particular, the provisions of the common law and procedural safeguards may be relied on. Moreover, the debates in the United Nations make it clear that judicial remedies are not necessarily the only remedies to be available for the protection of rights. Remedies determined by administrative authorities may be relied on, provided that the remedy is an effective remedy. Article 2 of the Covenant makes it clear, I think, that an emphasis should be placed on the development of processes to respond to individual complaints. These processes may be provided not only by legislative measures and common law and procedural remedies, but also by remedies of an administrative and executive character. 
It is also important to bear in mind that there are a number of mechanisms, safeguards and procedures, both general and specific, direct and indirect, that have important implications and influences on the provision of remedies for human rights of an administrative or executive character. The safeguards involved in Australia 's system of representative and responsible government, the independence of the judiciary and the procedures adopted by our courts, the freedom of the Press and the possibility of parliamentary or ministerial investigation or other inquiry are important factors in the maintenance of human rights in this country. To these factors may be added the processes that have been established for the operation of ombudsmen, for the review of administrative decisions and for the provision of legal aid. The activities of non-governmental bodies concerned with civil liberties also play an important role. These are examples of the pressures that exist within our society to ensure that infringements of human rights are provided with a remedy. 
There also has been a movement towards the introduction of legislation on specific matters, such as racial discrimination, discrimination on grounds of sex or marital status, criminal investigation and invasions of privacy. In addition, increasing attention is being given to the inclusion in legislation of qualifications and safeguards, where possibilities of intrusions into human rights may arise. The Commonwealth Government is of the view, however, that supplementary procedures should be established, to operate on a systematic and comprehensive basis, if the obligations contained in Article 2 of the Covenant are to be fulfilled. The Human Rights Commission proposed by this Bill will play an important part in these supplementary processes. 
Late last year I announced proposals for the establishment of a Human Rights Commission as a joint Commonwealth-State venture. Under this proposal, the Commission would have had power, among other things, to examine and report on Commonwealth and State laws and practices that were inconsistent with the International Covenant and it was proposed that individuals would be able to bring complaints affecting them to the Commission for investigation. It was proposed that reports of the Commission would be made by the Commission to all governments and it would then have been a matter for the relevant government, State or Commonwealth, to take any legislative or administrative action that might be appropriate to provide a remedy for any violation of the Covenant. 
Consistently with the notion that the Commission should be established as a joint Commonwealth-State venture, I proposed that the Commission should be subject to the direction of a body, called the Human Rights Council, in relation to that pan of its work that related to the examination of State and Commonwealth laws and practices. I proposed that the Council would be empowered to lay down criteria to be taken into account in determining whether laws or practices fell within the scope of the International Covenant and that the membership of both the Commission and the Council should consist of State, as well as Commonwealth, members. 
I said earlier that, in achievement of these objectives, the Commonwealth attaches great importance to joint discussions and arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. Accordingly, there have been discussions with the States on this matter and I anticipate that further discussions will be held shortly. However, most of the States have indicated that at this stage they would not propose to join in a scheme that involved functions relating to State legislation and State practices being vested in a Commonwealth commission. Having regard to these discussions, the functions of the Commonwealth 's Commission as set out in this Bill will be limited to Commonwealth and Territory laws and practices. The Bill will be left to lie on the table of the House for public comment and further discussions will be held with the States to establish a foundation for Commonwealth-State co-operation on a basis satisfactory to all parties. 
I turn now to a description of the provisions contained in the present Bill. Clause 3 of the Bill defines 'human rights' to mean rights and freedoms recognised in the International Covenant or in any other relevant international instrument specified by the Minister. The words 'act or practice' are defined to mean acts and practices in a Territory or engaged in by or on behalf of the Commonwealth or under a Commonwealth or Territory law. The word 'enactment' is defined to mean a Commonwealth Act, an ordinance of a Territory or a law made under an Act or ordinance. Clause 7 provides that the Commission is to consist of a  chairman  and six or more other members, not exceeding ten. The  chairman  is to be a judge or a legal practitioner. The precise composition of the Commission has, at this stage, been deliberately left undefined as it is a matter upon which submissions would be welcomed. 
The functions of the Commission are set out in clause 8. The main functions of the Commission will be as follows: The Commission will report on laws, acts and practices that may be inconsistent with the International Covenant and on laws that should be enacted or other action that should be taken by the Commonwealth in relation to human rights. When requested to do so by the Minister, the Commission is to report on action that needs to be taken by Australia in order to comply with the provisions of the International Covenant or any other international agreement relating to human rights specified by the Minister. The Commission is to have functions under other Commonwealth Acts- such as the Racial Discrimination Act- or under a State Act that vests functions in the Commission. The Commission is also to have functions relating to the promotion of human rights and the coordination of programs of education and research undertaken by the Commonwealth. 
Clause 9 is a very significant clause. It provides that the Commission is to inquire into and report on an act or practice that may be inconsistent with or contrary to the rights and freedoms recognised in the International Covenant when a complaint in writing is made by an individual to the Commission, when the Commission is requested to do so by the Minister or when it appears to the Commission to be desirable to do so. The Commission is to have a discretion not to inquire into certain matters, such as frivolous, vexatious, or trivial complaints or matters that could be more effectively or conveniently dealt with by the Commonwealth Ombudsman. 
I have said that this Bill will be left to lie on the table of the House for public comment. One of the matters to which consideration could be given is the possibility of adding to the functions of the Commonwealth's Commission. For example, where an investigation takes place on complaint by an individual it may be thought desirable to vest in the Commission conciliation functions in respect of alleged infringements of the rights recognised in the International Covenant. Consideration also needs to be given to whether the Commission or a tribunal should be able to make orders that would have the force of law. 
Clause 10 of the Bill provides that the form of examination and inquiries is to be at the discretion of the Commission. Under clause II. where it appears to the Commission that an act or practice is inconsistent with the Covenant, the Commission is to give the person responsible a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Commission and to make submissions. Under clause 1 2, the Commission is to have power compulsorily to require the answering of questions or the production of documents. The width of this clause is a matter for discussion and I envisage that the provision might be revised to exclude a greater range of documents from its operation. 
Clause 13 provides that, where the Commission finds that an enactment is inconsistent with the Covenant, it is to make recommendations in relation to the amendments required to the enactment. The clause also provides that where the Commission finds that an act or practice is inconsistent with the International Covenant, it is to serve notice of its findings and recommendations on the person responsible and is to report on the matter to the Minister. The report to the Minister is to state whether the person responsible has taken or is taking any action as the result of the findings and recommendations of the Commission. The Commission is to furnish an annual report, which is to be tabled in Parliament. Most of the remaining clauses deal with administrative matters. 
The procedures that will be established by this BUI to be followed by the Commission will have a number of advantages, and at the same time avoid some of the difficulties, of a Bill of Rights. The procedures will involve the adoption of the principles contained in the Covenant as a guide to legislative and administrative action and will permit flexibility to adapt to new situations as they arise. They will prompt the introduction on a systematic basis of legislation in Parliament dealing with specific problems with a particularity and comprehensiveness that could not be achieved by means of judicial interpretation of general guarantees. They will also prompt administrative action on matters that might be too minor or detailed to warrant specific legislation. In addition, the procedures will avoid the emphasis on expensive and excessive litigation that often accompanies a Bill of Rights. The procedures will establish a yardstick against which intrusion into basic rights can be measured, but will at the same time preserve the parliamentary role of determining matters of policy and settling the content of the law. The Bill will thus evidence the commitment of the Commonwealth Government and Parliament to the introduction of practical measures for the maintenance and promotion of basic human rights. 
I have already emphasised the importance of achieving wider Commonwealth-State agreement in this area. To this end discussions are to continue between the Attorneys-General. One of the matters which I hope will be discussed is whether a declaration of human rights based on the Covenant and the principles already embedded in our common law could be drawn up for adoption by all governments and parliaments in the Commonwealth and whether, based on such a declaration, a system to enforce human rights can be established in every State and Territory of the Commonwealth. I wish to make it clear that the Government is not wedded to the precise terms of this Bill and will be prepared to propose amendments based on the results of these further discussions with the States and the representations of members of Parliament and the public if they could lead to the adoption of a more comprehensive system than the Bill presently contains. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the espousal of human rights can have a very hollow ring about it especially in the mouths of people like politicians, social scientists and would-be demagogues. It is very easy and a great satisfaction to the individual and community conscience to make lofty speeches and engage in spirited demonstrations about human rights. What is difficult is the pursuit of those rights for the benefit of the individuals for whom they are intended. Recently a group of squatters occupied a building in a Kings Cross street in my electorate. They did so in pursuit of the principle of low cost housing for people in the inner city. The building was opened by them to any homeless person who wished to sleep there and as time went by many chronically disturbed alcoholic and disabled people moved in. The squatters, feeling they had made their stand for human rights, for principle, then moved on leaving these people to fend for themselves. But the tragedy is that most of these people can not fend for themselves. They could be described as the rejects of a welfare system supposedly set up to care for them. At present they are partly being looked after by a 19 year old unemployed girl. I understand her main concern is what would happen to them if she had to accept a job. The nearby Wayside Chapel and a couple of doctors in private practice who assist at the Chapel are also struggling to help these people. Bill Crews, Director of the Wayside Chapel's crisis centre, has written this: 
When one of our doctors was first called there, he was shocked at what he saw. Indescribable filth, sickness and poverty. He warned us that if something wasn't done Sydney could have an outbreak of plague from that place. He was a former medical superintendent of a hospital so he knew what he was talking about. He treated one person for double pneumonia and personally drove one young resident to hospital because she was  haemorrhaging  badly, only to have the hospital release her three hours later. 
Our Crisis Centre bathroom has become a first aid post for these people. Here they are bathed,  deloused,  and their scabies and skin disorders are treated. Our small bathroom has to be sterilised after every visit as we have to use it, too. 
It is time the hollowness of much that it proclaimed in the cause of human rights is once more exposed. What these people need is not the empty proclamation of human rights by radical squatters but the care of a society and individuals in it committed to the practical application of those rights. The problem of our time is not our incapacity to proclaim or understand basic human rights. The radicals are wasting their time. It is surely obvious to the most reluctant conservative that the winds of change are blowing in the trees in every field of human endeavour, challenging us all to a fresh appreciation and a stronger devotion to basic human rights. The real question is whether we as a people and as individuals have the will, the sense of commitment, the courage, if you like, to live out these principles in what we do. In this sense it is no different to the challenge that has confronted mankind since human life began. May this Bill at least symbolise our determination to respond to this challenge. I commend this Bill to the House. 
This is not a speech on the second reading, is it? 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The Government does not accept this amendment. But may I say that the fact that the Government does not accept this amendment does not necessarily mean that the matter will be rejected. A number of amendments and submissions have been made in relation to this Bill. They will be considered along with this proposal, but at this stage the Government does not accept this amendment. If the amendments are ultimately considered desirable to go into the legislation assuming this Bill goes through both Houses, those amendments will be brought forward in the next session. 
I think it is worthy of note that in the Legal Aid Bill that was brought forward by the Labor Government in 1975- this is apposite to the amendment and to the attack of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on the non-independent character of this Commission-there was established a board of management. It was proposed that that board of management would control the delivery of legal aid services throughout the Commonwealth. In other words, that board was going to control the legal aid offices. What did that board consist of? It consisted of a  chairman,  a director and one other member. Not only that, it was to be subject in its policy to the control of the executive. So here we have an indication of what a Labor government would do it if were going to control legal aid. It was going to control legal aid through a board which consisted solely of lawyers, a board that was to be controlled in effect by the Attorney-General of the day. That Labor Government was not alone in its attitude in relation to this matter because such thoughts are harboured at this time by the Attorney-General of New South Wales, as is evident from his views as to how a legal aid commission should be run. Such a proposition is not one that the Commonwealth Attorney-General accepts because a basic notion is that a legal aid commission ought to be independent; it ought to stand apart from government. 
I agree with the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  that a citizen who comes along with a claim against the Government ought to be entitled to independent legal advice through either the salaried service or, if it be an appropriate case, committal to the private profession. But let there be no nonsense about this question of independence insofar as the Opposition is concerned because it had its chance in 1975 and the production was a miserable one from the point of view of having an independent commission. That was part of the thrust of the speech that I made on 9 October 1975 and that is one reason why the bill was attacked. We attack it now on the same basis. 
Our commitment to legal aid has been clear and decisive. Since we came to government, funds of a considerable magnitude have been expended on legal aid. Any consideration of the figures reveals that there is no reason for this Government to have anything but pride in relation to the matter. If one looks at the figures one will find that the expenditure in 1973-74 was $2.5m, that in 1974-75 it was $5.6m and that in 1975-76 it was $ 12.5m. The estimated expenditure this financial year is $ 17.97m. That is the expenditure on legal aid apart from the Aboriginal Legal Service. If one throws in the amount of $3.7m for legal aid for the Aboriginal Legal Service in the current financial year, one comes to an amount of approximately $2 1.677m as the estimated expenditure this year. The expenditure of $ 17.97m on what might be called the Australian Legal Aid Office area represents a 43 per cent increase over the expenditure the previous year, which was approximately $ 12.5m. That $ 12.5m was basically fixed in the Hayden Budget of August 1 975. So it is a lot of nonsense to talk about this Government not being committed to legal aid and not being prepared to provide funds in relation to it. 
It has been suggested that there has been some reduction in the amount of legal aid provided. Let me give some figures in this respect. During the year ended 30 June 1976, the Australian Legal Aid Office committed 45 700 matters. Up to the end of April of this year from 1 July of last year it had committed to the private profession 40 900 matters. One can therefore anticipate that, by the end of this financial year, approximately 48 000 or 49 000 matters will be committed. That is 4000 or 5000 matters more than the previous year. That in itself represents approximately a 10 per cent increase in the number of matters committed. So again let there be no charge against the Government of failing in its decision and its intent to provide legal aid. 
The shop front advice also has continued to be provided and to be provided on the basis that anybody who goes into the Australian Legal Aid Office is given advice. If the matter requires further attention, the question then arises whether it is a matter for Federal legal aid and it is dealt with accordingly. That has been the basis upon which the matter has been dealt with right through; that is to say, the same tests are applied by this Government in that respect as were applied by the previous Government, as I understand it. We have continued the duty lawyer services, subject to one qualification and honourable members opposite might well understand why this has happened. In New South Wales the duty lawyer services provided through the Australian Legal Aid Office have had superimposed on them duty lawyer services provided by the State of New South Wales in certain courts of petty session. That is the very sort of duplication that we have been talking about and that we have been trying to avoid. But we have maintained the duty lawyer service where it was. Honourable members might like to know that recently we opened up 2 further offices in New South Wales- one at Orange and the other at, I think, Lismore. 
Areas where there is need. Just because the honourable member for Grayndler comes from the electorate of Wentworth but has a seat that embraces Leichhardt, where there is a legal aid office, for some reason he does not think that the people who live in Orange or in other country districts need a legal aid office. They do. Let me point out to him that  Mr Walker,  the Attorney-General of New South Wales, would like the Federal Government to provide funds to open up duty lawyer services in all the country courts of petty session. Why does he want to do that? It is because he feels that there is a need for those services in New South Wales. 
I have dealt with the subject of independence and I have dealt with the subject of the amount of funds being provided. The Opposition's claims were absolute nonsense. Let me make it clear that I do not think that honourable members opposite really speak otherwise than with their tongue in their cheek. I think that they understand what the Government is about but politically they do not like what the Government is doing and therefore they attempt to denigrate it at every turn. What the Government is about is entering into agreements with the States to establish legal aid commissions. We are in the process of close negotiation with Western Australia and South Australia. Tasmania, through its Attorney-General, recently indicated its interest. Even New South Wales and Queensland have indicated their interest. But we are in close negotiation with Western Australia and South Australia. 
It is the intention that those agreements will provide for the Federal funding of legal aid, that they will commit to the States an undertaking by the Commonwealth to provide funds and that those funds will maintain a level of legal aid of the character that exists at the moment. When I say 'of the character' I mean of the character. I mean of the character of shop front legal aid offices. I mean of the character of retaining the salaried service. It is said that this Bill ought to have some guarantee about salaried officers being in legal aid offices. That is like asking for a guarantee that doctors be guaranteed in a hospital agreement. Of course there will be salaried officers in a legal aid service. There is no debate about that and there is no question about it- just as there have to be doctors in hospitals. Salaried officers are part of the delivery of legal aid services and there is no question about that proposition. 
The basic purpose of this Bill, apart from establishing the Commission, is to fulfil the undertaking that was given that the salaried officers would be provided for in the transfer so that their terms and conditions of salary and employment would be no less favourable. That is exactly what is provided for in Part IV of this Bill. It provides a framework within which those staffing arrangements can be agreed on with the States. Once this Bill is passed through both Houses it will enable me as Attorney-General to formulate agreements that can be discussed with the staff on a minutial basis, that is to say on a detailed basis, so that they will be able to understand precisely what will be happening if they go across to a State commission. 
Therefore this Bill, far from being a breach of any undertaking, represents a fulfilment of an undertaking by this Government to provide a proper framework within which the staff can be transferred. I have already indicated in my second reading speech that we will attempt to negotiate an arrangement between the States and Territory commissions so that there can be a transfer of staff between the commissions, that is to say, a transfer from New South Wales to Victoria, or whatever. That is a provision that will be found in the ordinance. The Attorney-General of South Australia has already indicated to me that he will put such a provision in his Act. The same request will be made and the same firm view will be put to the Attorneys-General of the other States. I hope that at the end of the day that provision will be well and truly there. 
The purpose of the earlier part of the Bill which establishes the Commission is well known. We have been talking about it for about 1 5 or 1 8 months. The Commission is to have a monitoring function. It is not basically a commission intended to deliver legal aid services. Its aim is to take an overview of the activities of State and Territory legal aid commissions, to keep statistics about them, to work out whether they are operating efficiently, to determine whether a method of delivering legal aid which has not been thought of ought to be put before those who are actually running these commissions and to see whether inefficiencies are creeping into legal aid services. All of these things are designed to be looked at again by the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission. As I have said, it is not a commission intended to deliver legal aid services. It is very much a monitoring commission. When it is looked at on that basis, honourable members, I suggest, will readily see that clause 6, which is the subject of consideration, provides an adequate basis for membership, namely, a  chairman,  a  deputy chairman  who will be full-time and involved in legal aid, 2 commissioners nominated by the Attorney-General, two by the States, one by the legal profession, in effect, and one from the client people to whom the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  referred. Therefore clause 6 is quite adequate. There is one other matter to which I would like to refer. It has been suggested that - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable gentleman would be a little out of order if he discusses clause 6 as we are now dealing with clause 5. 
I am sorry. I meant clause 5. I was looking at the wrong clause. 
The honourable member should not trouble himself about that. Judges are lenient. In fact, they are more lenient sometimes than Chairmen of Committees. 
There is no reflection; none at all. I think that there has been a degree of disbelief on the part of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and other honourable members opposite about the Government's commitment to legal aid. In closing my remarks I want to refer to some figures and to compare what the Commonwealth is putting into legal aid with what the States are putting into legal aid. 
-I think that I have already given the Committee the estimated expenditure by the Commonwealth for this year. It is $ 17.9m plus $3. 7m for Aboriginal legal aid, making a total of $2 1.67m. 
I ask honourable members opposite to listen to what I have to say. The amount expended by the States on legal aid this year is approximately $ 13m. So out of a total of approximately $34.5m the Commonwealth provides $2 1.5m. So it is that the Government's commitment to legal aid is a very strong and committed one. I hope that we will not hear any more of this nonsense from the Opposition in relation to the commitment of the Government to legal aid. 
I really must say a little. What the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  has just said is completely and utterly wrong. It has been proved to be wrong by the fact that in the last year 45 000 matters were committed and this year 49 000 matters will be committed. How he can say that people have been disappointed as a result of any adjustment in the means test, I just do not know. It is just not correct. 
The honourable member has made bis speech. I suggest that he should just keep quiet. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for Grayndler must not reflect personally on any individual member in the Parliament. I warn him not to do so in future. 
-I shall endeavour to speak through you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The honourable member referred to the fact that I have previously referred to the duty lawyer service in New South Wales being duplicated. As far as I am aware I was not talking about the court at Glebe or at Newtown. I was talking about other courts at Fairfield, Bankstown and Blacktown where, I understand, the Legal Aid Office has been providing a duty lawyer service for a long time. It is still providing that duty lawyer service. A public solicitor service was put in those courts by the State of New South Wales. That duplicated the Australian Legal Aid Office duty lawyer service. That is the fact. I am not presenting any fiction to this Parliament. It is an effrontery for the honourable member to suggest that I am trying in any way to debase the officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office. They have studiously and with great vigour performed their duties and have provided duty lawyer services in those courts. It was not necessary for the Attorney-General of New South Wales without the knowledge, by the way, of the AttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth, who provided through his Government funds for some pilot services to be set up, to terminate those services and also duplicate Australian Legal Aid Office services. This is what I am trying to stop. All I have sought to do in the last 18 months is to have a discussion with the Attorney-General of New South Wales that would enable us to work out a rationalised system of legal aid. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
The functions of the Commission are- 
to ascertain, and keep under review, the extent of the need for legal assistance in Australia and, in particular, the need for legal assistance in respect of Commonwealth matters and to make recommendations from time to time to the Attorney-General as to the most effective, economical and desirable means of satisfying that need; 
to make recommendations to the Attorney-General and to legal aid commissions of States and Territories concerning the provision of legal assistance by those legal aid commissions in respect of Commonwealth matters and, in particular, to make recommendations as to- 
the manner in which legal assistance should be provided in respect of Commonwealth matters; 
the criteria to be applied in determining whether legal assistance should be provided to a person in respect of a Commonwealth matter; 
the extent of any contributions to be required to be paid by a person to whom legal assistance is provided in respect of a Commonwealth matter; and 
the priorities to be observed in the provision of legal assistance in respect of Commonwealth matters as between different classes of persons or different classes of matters; 
to collect and publish statistics concerning the operation of schemes for the provision of legal assistance in Australia; 
to report to the Attorney-General upon the functioning of legal aid commissions of States and Territories including the accessibility of those commissions to persons requiring legal assistance and the effectiveness and economy of the provision of legal assistance by those commissions; 
to furnish to the Attorney-General such reports as the Attorney-General requires concerning the functioning and effectiveness of other schemes for the provision oflegal assistance, being schemes that operate, whether wholly or partly, with financial assistance from the Commonwealth; 
to liaise and co-operate with, and to make recommendations to, the Attorney-General concerning the coordination of the operations of, legal aid commissions of States and Territories and other bodies providing, or interested in the provision of, legal assistance; 
to undertake research into all aspects of legal assistance including new methods of financing and providing legal assistance; 
to advise the Attorney-General as to the educational programs that would be effective in promoting an understanding by the public, or by sections of the public that have special needs in this respect, of their rights, powers, privileges and duties under laws in force in Australia; 
as requested by the Attorney-General, to report to the Attorney-General as to the provision by the Commonwealth of financial assistance to legal aid commissions of States and Territories; 
to determine applications for the provision of legal or financial assistance by the Commonwealth in Commonwealth matters in which the Commission is authorized to do so by an Act other than this Act or is directed to do so by the Attorney-General; 
to advise the Attorney-General on the provision of legal assistance or financial assistance in any Commonwealth matter referred by the Attorney-General for advice; and 
to advise the Attorney-General as to such other matters relating to the provision of legal assistance as the Attorney-General requests or the Commission considers appropriate. 
The amendment really serves to highlight the difference of approach between the Opposition and the Government. The Opposition seems to think that money comes out of the air, that the Government can set afloat some commission which will finance legal aid. I do not know where the money would come from, but perhaps we had better ask the Opposition. The Labor Government knew in August 1 975 when it formulated its Budget that it had to restrict legal aid. In fact, a decision was made at that time or thereabouts not to proceed with the opening of some 20 or 30 legal aid offices. I am blamed for closing them down, but the fact is that the decision was made in 1975 by the previous Government, the Labor Government. Why was it made? It was made because the Government realised at that time that its profligate spending could not go on any longer, that it had to stop. So it applied the test to legal aid as well as to other areas. The only problem was that in some areas- not in legal aid but in other areas- the Government did not apply the brakes soon enough. For honourable members opposite to talk about setting up a commission that is going to finance legal aid is a lot of nonsense, when we consider the reality of the situation. Where is the money going to come from? There is only one place it comes from and that is the Commonwealth Treasury, and the taxpayer has to pay for it. The reality which the Opposition does not seem able to face is that in the end it comes back to the Australian people. 
We have taken the view that people in need ought to get legal aid, and we have done out best with the funds available to provide it. The statistics show that the number of people who will get legal aid this year is 10 per cent greater than the number last year. That is a fact, and it is an important fact to bear in mind. Where does the money come from? It comes from the taxpayer. We also should bear in mind that legal aid can be justified in one sense for every citizen. Consider a man earning $ 1 5,000 a year. If he is faced with an action which involves losing his home or a fight over his home, in order to have that fight that man may well have to find legal funds totalling, say $8,000 or $10,000. He might be a man with four or five children, perhaps only two. Yet it would be impossible for him to run the risk oflegal proceedings because if he has to pay the bill, if he has to pay the costs of the other side, he may well and truly lose his fortune, those funds and assets he has put together over a period of years. It is just not on- let us face it- to provide legal aid in this country to people who are getting, say, $15,000 a year. We cannot afford it. It is a bottomless pit if we look at it in that way. 
At this stage of our development legal aid can be provided only for people in real need. That is what the Government is about and that is what the means test is designed to achieve. On the other hand, as I have said before, the private legal profession does have a contribution to make, with the Government, towards providing legal aid. I gather that one of the things the Opposition would like to do is provide all legal aid through a salaried service. 
That seems to me to be implicit in what the Opposition is saying sometimes. This would be quite impossible and, what is more, would leave untapped the great resouces that the profession is prepared to provide. The private profession, from the point of view of making its contribution and becoming involved, has to have representation, and substantial representation, on legal aid commissions. In saying 'substantial ' I do not necessarily mean 70 per cent or 50 per cent; I mean substantial. A guarantee of our good faith is contained in the Legal Aid Ordinance which I have presented in respect of the Australian Captial Territory. It provides for all the things that the Sackville report basically recommends. It provides for the administration of legal aid by an independent commission comprising people who have what the honourable member for Grayndler referred to, I think, as client interests, the Australian 
Council of Social Service, and a representative of the Legislative Assembly as well as of the legal profession. I am considering a submission whether there ought to be a staff representative on that body. That submission is supported by the Law Society, by the Legislative Assembly and, I think, by the Australian Council of Social Service. 
Needless to say, I will give very careful thought to the proposition that there ought to be a member of staff as well as a director on the commission. In other words, we have faced up to the recommendations in the Sackville report and, with regard to the delivery oflegal aid, have provided the framework in the Australian Capital Territory for a commission which has all those incidents about it. 
This amendment to which we are referring contains an interesting admission by the Opposition, that is, that after all it is an effective way of setting up State legal aid commissions through which legal aid can be dispensed. If those commissions are set up there has to be a division of funding- the States putting in funds and the Federal Government putting in its funds- pursuant to an arrangement and according to the demands for services in the various areas. We cannot have a bottomless pit. We just cannot have a commission which says that the Government this year will provide $60m for legal aid. It is just not possible or practicable. I am surprised that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  with his close knowledge of service in government would put forward the proposition that it could be. Such a body would be let loose in an area and no responsible government could possibly approve such a commission. In those circumstances, the Government has no other course than to reject this amendment. 
-The honourable member says that there is an annual report on funding. I assume that all that means is that it will indicate what money the Government has to provide. However, it does not indicate what money the Government can provide consistent with its other liabilities, and that is the point I make. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
These are simply what might be called drafting amendments. I do not think that I need say anything more about them. 
I think I follow what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is putting but I certainly do not think it means that we should leave out proposed new sub-section (6) at this stage. It seems to cover a situation where proposed new subsection (4) does not operate. 
-It can still entertain an application if there are special circumstances to justify it doing so. Under proposed new sub-section (4) it might refuse to entertain an application. 
-It might. Proposed new subsection (4) covers certain denned circumstances. There is no doubt that proposed new sub-section (6) in the form in which it has gone through contains reference to 'sub-section (5)'. It should have read 'sub-section (4)' and that is the purpose of this amendment. If it turns out to be redundant, I will be surprised. But should it do so, I certainly will take account of the matter. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The first amendment is to clause 5 sub-clause ( 1 ) paragraph (d). I think it is fairly clear that it is a drafting amendment. The second amendment is to clause 13 and is that sub-clause (8) be left out. Sub-clause (8) provided that a statement or further statement provided under clause 13 for the reasons for a decision is deemed to be part of the record of the decision for the purpose of reviewing that decision. This provision originally was inserted in accordance with the recommendation of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee. However the view has been taken that the sub-clause is unnecessary. It is similar to what we were discussing on the previous Bill. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was correct. The provision made in clause 5 sub-clause ( 1 ) paragraph (f) will enable the court to review a decision for an error of law regardless of whether that error appears on the record. The Kerr Committee had proposed as a ground of review that there was an error on the face of the record. A statement or further statement furnished under clause 13 could be taken into account by the Federal Court for the purpose of determining whether a division involved an error of law without the need for specific provisions. 

 Judicial Review Bill 

Indeed having regard to the form of paragraph 5(1) (0. sub-clause 13(8) could give rise to difficulties of interpretation and it was therefore moved in the Senate that the sub-clause be omitted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question whether, notwithstanding the abolition of the court to which he was appointed, a federal Judge is entitled under the Constitution to continue to hold his commission for life, subject only to the provision for removal from office contained in the Constitution, involves a legal opinion on the interpretation of the Constitution. I am not aware of any authority on this point. The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act (No. 3) 1976 and the Bankruptcy Amendment Act 1 976 provide for the abolition of the Australian Industrial Court and the Federal Court of Bankruptcy, respectively, on dates to be fixed by proclamation. Each of those Acts provides, however, that such a proclamation may not be made whilst any Judge of the court concerned continues to hold office. 
The Acts establishing the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory provide, in effect, that a presidential member or a Judge, as the case may be, may not be removed from office before he reaches retiring age (or during his lifetime in the case of those Territory Judges holding appointments for life) except by the Governor-General on an address from both Houses of the Parliament in the same session praying for his removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. This tenure of office having been established by Act of the Parliament, it would appear to be competent for the Parliament to enact legislation making other provision for the removal from office of a presidential member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or a Judge of the Territory Supreme Court, as the case may be, if the Commission or the Courconcerned were abolished. were circulated: 
) If this was intended, what will be the position when, as provided for in section 4 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act (No. 3) 1976, the Australian Industrial Court is abolished by proclamation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Act (No. 2) 1976, fixed the salaries of the Presidents and  Deputy  Presidents of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at $40,500 and $39,500 per annum respectively. This was in accordance with the recommendation of the Remuneration Tribunal. The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1977 now before the Parliament would establish a nexus between the salaries of the  President  and the  Deputy  Presidents of the Commission on the one hand, and the Chief Judge and the Judges of the Federal Court of Australia, on the other, by providing that the  President  and the  Deputy  Presidents shall receive the same salary and annual allowances as that of the Chief Judge and the Judges of the Federal Court of Australia respectively. 
Federal-State Agreements: Consideration by Attorney-General (Question No. 241) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) None, from theiewpoint of the validity of previously existing agreements. I have of course considered agreements in the course of their negotiation with the States since I became Attorney-General. The Agreement with Western Australia on the State Family Court, which was signed on 26 May 1976, and the Agreement that is at present being negotiated with the State for the provision of legal aid by a State Legal Aid Commission are examples. 
) See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Parramatta Registry of the Family Court of Australia was officially opened on 1 September 1976. Two Judges were sitting at the Parramatta Court at that date and were serviced by a total of 21 supporting staff within the following categories: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government has granted the Foundation the sum of $5,500 in each of the last two financial years. 
) My Department has been informed by the Foundation that: 
Keith Compton Gale has been a member of the Executive Council of the Foundation since 4 October 1973; 

 Mr Gale requested, and was granted, leave of absence from that position for 6 months from 12 May 1977. 
(a) See (2) above. 
My Department has been informed by the Foundation that the persons who have been members of the Executive Council since its incorporation and their addresses as recorded by the Foundation, are: 
Ellicott, Robert James-9 Wickham Cres., Red Hill, A.C.T., from 14 September 1973 until 12 March 1976. 
Vernon, James- 27 Manning Road, Double Bay, N.S.W., since 4 October 1973. 
Allan, David Ernest- 41 Bordeaux Avenue, Doncaster, Vic., since 4 October 1973. 
Graig, James John-25 Leura Grove, Hawthorn East, Vic, since 4 October 1973. 
Creer, James Neill- 49A Braeside St, Wahroonga, N.S.W., since 14September 1973. 
Davenport, Jack Napier- 53 Malton Road, Beecroft, N.S.W., since 4 October 1973. 
Dixon, Peter John-90 Hawkesbury Cres., Farrer, A.C.T, from 4 October 1973 until 7 November 1974. 
Gale, Keith Compton-3 Honda Road, Neutral Bay, N.S.W., since 4 October 1973. 
Gilchrist, Hugh-5 Grey Street, Deakin, A.C.T., from 4 October 1973 until 12 March 1976. 
Hermes, Clarence Lindsay- 68 Birdwood St, Hughes, A.C.T., from 4 October 1973 until 12 May 1975. 
Lockhart, John Stanley- 3 Garden Square, Gordon, N.S.W., since 4 October 1973. 
McComas, William Robert- 8A Warrimoo Ave, St Ives, N.S.W., since 14 September 1973. 
Ryan, Kevin William- 15 Orkney Street, Kenmore, Qld, since 14 September 1973. 
Stevenson, William Robin Dill- 7 Illeroy Ave, Killara, N.S.W., since 14 September 1973. 
Sutton, Kenneth Coleridge Turvey- 10 Taunton Street, Pymble, N.S.W., since4October 1973. 
Tuckfield, John Henton- 17 The Cresent, Vaucluse, N.S.W., since 14September 1973. 
Walsh, David Anthony- 4 Haverbrack Ave, Malvern, Vic., since4October 1973. 
Field, Peter Stewart-8 Tullaroop St, Duffy, ACT., from 7 November 1974 until 12 March 1976. 
Bennett, Henry Trevor- 28 Rankin Street, Campbell, A.C.T., since 17 June 1975. 
Byers, Maurice Hearne- 14 Marella Road, Clifton Gardens, N.S.W., since 12 March 1 976. 
Nygh, Peter Edward-78A Mona Vale Road, Pymble, N.S. W., since 4 October 1973. 
Fitch, Donald Richard-36 Mockridge Cres., Holt, A.C.T., since 5 November 1976. 
Vincent, Anthony Lionel- 46 Brookman St, Torrens, A.C.T., since 5 November 1976. 
My Department has been provided with a copy of the accounts of the Foundation for the year ended 30 June 1976 and also with a copy of the accounts for the six month period ended 31 December 1976. I am informed that these have been audited as required by the Companies Ordinance (A.C.T.). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I met a  Mr Licardy  in Canberra in October 1 975. In March 1 976 a solicitor communicated with me making certain requests on his behalf. I rejected these requests. I cannot recall any other contact with  Mr Licardy. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Item 8 of the Third Schedule to the High Court Rules reads: 
Reasons for judgment given by a Justice or the Full Court in a proceeding- for each copy issued to a person not a party to the proceeding and for each copy in excess of one copy issued to a party to the proceeding- per page $0.50 ' 
The present fee took effect from 1 February 1968. The previous fee, set in 1953, was: 
 For a copy of reasons for judgment of a Justice or a Court, per folio............... 6d. 
But with a minimum fee, for one set of reasons of . . 5s. 
And with a maximum fee, for one set of reasons, of............... 10/ 10s. 
(a) $117 
$70 
$60. 
I do not have the information relating to State Courts and cannot make any comparisons. 
The Chief Justice has proposed a substantial change in the method of reproducing the judgments of the Court which could make them more readily and more cheaply available to the parties and certain institutions such as Courts, libraries, professional bodies and universities and at a reduced cost to other persons and bodies. 
Married Women in Work Force (Question No. 93) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) Yes. In my address to that Symposium, a copy of which has been supplied to the honourable member, I outlined the steps that are currently being taken to effect necessary reforms to the criminal law applying in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The powers of arrest of the Commonwealth Police Force are currently under review in light of the Criminal Investigations Bill. I expect that Bill to provide a model for the Police Forces of the Territories. 
(a) As I informed the honourable member in my reply to Question No. 1671  (Hansard,  9 December 1976) an Ordinance is being prepared to implement the report. Drafting of the Ordinance has commenced, but a very great deal of work is involved. The preparation of the draft Ordinance will be completed as soon as practicable, having regard to other priorities. 
The Standing Committee of Attorneys-General has requested that a model Bill for uniform legislation on this topic be prepared. Work on that Bill is well advanced and should be completed in the near future. 
This is a matter for the Minister for the Capital Territorysee my answer to Question No. 1 67 1 . 
5 ) The recommendations are being examined with a view to action where appropriate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to question No. 1003. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff (Question No.  1017) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
The provisions of State laws relating to the enforcement of payment of fines vary from State to State. I am informed 'that in the case to which the question relates, the warrant had been issued in respect of an outstanding fine imposed by a Victorian Court for an offence under the Income Tax Assessment Act. Victorian law does contain provisions under which a person who has been convicted and 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)1 understand that, until the end of the last year, it was customary, when a Bill was presented to the GovernorGeneral for assent, for the Governor-General to ask the Attorney-General whether, in the opinion of the AttorneyGeneral, the Governor-General should recommend any amendments to be made and also whether, in the opinion of the Attorney-General, the Constitution required the Bill to be reserved for the Queen's pleasure. The wording of the Attorney-General's advice, commonly referred to as the Attorney-General 's certificate, was ordinarily as follows: 'Your  Excellency, 
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of a letter of even date from the Official Secretary to Your  Excellency,  transmitting a copy of a Bill passed by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth intituled:- and communicating to me Your Excellency's desire that I should peruse and advise upon the Measure. 
As requested by Your Excellency, I have carefully perused the Bill, and I cannot suggest any amendments that, in my opinion, Your Excellency should recommend, and I am also of opinion that the Constitution does not require Your Excellency to reserve the Bill for Her Majesty's pleasure to be made known'. 
Earlier this year I was informed by the Governor-General that the practice of a separate request for advice being made in respect of each Bill would not be continued. I was also informed that it is the wish of the Governor-General that he should continue to have the advice of the Attorney-General in respect of each Bill presented for royal assent. He wishes to be advised whether, in accordance with section  58  of the Constitution, he should recommend any amendments, and whether he should reserve a Bill for the Queen's pleasure. The wording of the Attorney-General 's certificate is now ordinarily as follows:- 'Your Excellency, 
I have the honour to forward herewith a copy of a Bill received by me from the  President  of the Senate/Speaker of the House of Representatives intituled- 
The President/Speaker has informed me that the Bill is now ready for presentation to Your  Excellency  for the royal assent and that he proposes presenting the Bill to Your  Excellency  immediately. 
I have the honour to inform Your  Excellency  that I have perused the Bill. In my opinion there are no amendments that Your  Excellency  should recommend. I am also of the opinion that Your  Excellency  should not reserve the Bill for  Her  Majesty's pleasure to be made known.' 
The Governor-General has requested advice from the Attorney-General in respect of each Bill and the advice is given in accordance with that request. The answer to (3) demonstrates the need for the practice. 
On 4 March 197S, the then Attorney-General advised the Governor-General that a printing error had been discovered in the Privy Council (Appeals from the High Court) Bill 1973 after the Bill had been passed by both Houses, and informed the Governor-General that he, the AttorneyGeneral, was of the opinion that the Governor-General should return the Bill to the House of Representatives with a message recommending an amendment to be made to correct the printing error. The Governor-General acted accordingly and the amendment was agreed to by both Houses before assent was given. 
On occasions Bills are reserved for royal assent for reasons other than those specifically referred to in the Constitution. For instance, a Bill may be reserved for the royal assent because of the presence of Her Majesty in Australia. This happened in 1973 in relation to the Royal Style and Titles Act. The Attorney-General is an appropriate Minister to give this advice. 
The answer to (3) above gives an instance of why the Attorney-General's certificate should not be abandoned. 
Quarantine: Mail at Broome Post Office (Question No. 1048) 
-I wish to make a statement to the House explaining why I have resigned as Attorney-General. This morning I delivered a letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the following terms: 
It is with great regret that I am forwarding herewith my resignation as Attorney-General. 
I am doing so because decisions and actions which you and the Cabinet have recently made and taken have impeded and in my opinion have constituted an attempt to direct or control the exercise by me as Attorney-General of my discretion in relation to the criminal proceedings  Sankey v. Whitlam and others. 
In the circumstances I feel that I have no other course but to resign my office. I regard it as vital to our system of government that the Attorney-General's discretion in criminal matters remains completely independent. 
I would like to thank you sincerely for the confidence which you placed in me in choosing me as Attorney-General and for the opportunity thereby afforded me to serve our country. 

 Mr Speaker, the loans affair has claimed another victim. Its tentacles have stretched into 1977. It has caused yet another resignation, voluntary though it be. As a preface to what I wish to say, I would like to read two passages- one from a speech I made on 9 July 1975 and the other from a speech of 21 October 1975. On 9 July 1975 I said: 
We now know who gave the legal advice that the loan in fact sought could be dressed up as a loan for temporary purposes. The oral advice of the then Attorney-General was given. Let us just read what was stated because it is very interesting. The former Attorney-General advised orally: 
In the exceptional circumstances I have outlined the borrowing could probably be regarded as a borrowing for temporary purposes within the meaning of the financial agreement. 
I do not want to be discourteous to a Justice of the High Court, nor do I want to be discourteous to somebody I served under. But that is not the sort of advice that honest men would seek on an occasion like this with this extraordinary loan in their minds. It is not the sort of advice that honest men would seek if they were going off to the GovernorGeneral to tell him that this was a loan for temporary purposes. I have given this matter the most careful thought but I cannot believe that any honest man could advise the GovernorGeneral to approve of that minute if he knew that the borrowings were for 20 years and were to meet the long term energy purposes of the Government. I do not believe an honest man could do it. I believe it was an illegal and unconstitutional act. 
On 2 1 October I said this: 
For many months I watched the Government's incompetence. I watched it last September; I watched it into March. I watched a Minister dismissed and I watched another Minister dismissed. Then came the events of 9 July last. That was when I resolved, in no uncertain terms, to throw myself behind the throwing out of this Government as soon as possible. That day and the documents produced revealed the greatest dishonesty that one could ever find in government. 1 saw the situation then, I said so then and I made a charge then. I appealed to honourable members opposite to set up a royal commission because I wanted some questions answered. I did not want a government that was disreputable or dishonest. I wanted a government that was decent. I would not mind a little bit of incompetence, but I did not want dishonesty for a moment. I wanted a royal commission. No trumped up situation in the Senate did I want. I wanted a royal commission where people and Ministers could appear and give their evidence and clear up this terrible mess. 
When I became Attorney-General on 22 December 1975, proceedings had already been instituted on 20 November by Danny Sankey against the honourable member for Werriwa and others. For ease of reference I will refer to these proceedings as the 'Sankey proceedings'. Honourable members will recall that one of the charges in those proceedings was that the defendants had conspired with each other to effect a purpose that was unlawful under a law of the Commonwealth. The charge was laid under section 86 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act and was therefore a Commonwealth matter. The special role of the Attorney-General in criminal matters in Australia and the United Kingdom is well known. It has been the subject of many statements which are set out in  Edwards on the Law Officers of the Crown.  The description of the role by  Sir Hartley  Shawcross is well known: 
I think the true doctrine is that it is the duty of an AttorneyGeneral, in deciding whether or not to authorise the prosecution, to acquaint himself with all the relevant facts, including, for instance, the effect which the prosecution, successful or unsuccessful as the case may be, would have upon public morale and order, and with any other consideration affecting public policy. In order so to inform himself, he may, although I do not think he is obliged to, consult with any of his colleagues in the Government, and indeed, as Lord Simon once said, he would in some cases be a fool if he did not. On the other hand, the assistance of his colleagues is confined to informing him of particular considerations which might affect his own decision, and does not consist, and must not consist, in telling him what that decision ought to be. The responsibility for the eventual decision rests with the Attorney-General, and he is not to be put, and is not put, under pressure by his colleagues in the matter. Nor, of course, can the Attorney-General shift his responsibility for making the decision on to the shoulders of his colleagues. If political considerations which in the broad sense that I have indicated affect government in the abstract arise it is the Attorney-General, applying his judicial mind, who has to be the  sole judge  of those considerations. 
Honourable members will recall that shortly after I became Attorney-General I was confronted with several matters of a criminal nature which had what might be called a political aspect. One of these was the Sankey proceedings. They were raised by the defendants themselves early in January 1976 when the solicitors for the defendants wrote seeking legal aid. I replied on 20 January stating that I would not accede to it. 
Another matter which arose early in the period related to claims of Crown privilege in respect of evidence sought by the informant Sankey. These proceedings involved the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  two former Ministers and a justice of the High Court. The charges made were serious and it seemed to me that they were proceedings in which I as Attorney-General could not fail to be interested if I were to fulfil my duty. I was conscious, of course, of the political aspect of my becoming involved. However, because of the public interest aspect it seemed to me that these proceedings ought to be disposed of one way or the other at an early date. I therefore decided to ascertain the material facts by obtaining statements from the relevant witnesses. I had in mind that when the evidence was collected through the Crown Solicitor I should seek the advice of independent counsel as to whether it established a prima facie case. I first approached the Solicitor-General and the Secretary and other officers of my Department who were able to give material evidence. In due course they supplied these statements. Statements were also obtained from officers of the Executive Council- two in number. I decided to seek a statement from  Sir Frederick  Wheeler, Secretary of the Treasury. However, he took the view that because I was seeking evidence of what took place during the period of the Labor Administration I was not entitled to know his evidence or to see any relevant file. I did not agree with this and I was fortfied in this view by the fact that the Solicitor-General and officers of my Department gave their statements. 
I take the view that there is no place where the criminal law does not run, even the Executive Council; nor can any convention that a government should not look into the affairs of a previous government prevent inquiry for the purposes of enforcing the criminal law. However, it did not seem to me that there was anything I could do to compel  Sir Frederick  to give a statement and therefore at that time, in 1976, I did not pursue the matter with him or other persons. Eventually I asked the Crown Solicitor to submit a brief to senior and junior counsel containing the statements I had collected. In August 1976 counsel advised that the evidence made available was not sufficient to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the defendants or any of them were guilty of the charges. Honourable members will appreciate however that counsel did not have the testimony of people like  Sir Frederick  Wheeler,  Sir Lenox  Hewitt,  Mr John  Menadue,  Mr Larkin  and others, nor the relevant files. It was advice based on less than all the material evidence. 
On 29 March 1976 I received an application by Sankey 's solicitors to take over the proceedings. Honourable members may recall that during 1976 there were proceedings in the Supreme Court of New South Wales and from recollection those proceedings did not conclude until October 1976. As a result of counsel's advice, and having regard to the fact that all evidence was not before counsel, I decided that it was not appropriate for me at that stage to take over the proceedings. Accordingly I informed the informant's solicitors on 12 November 1976. During November 1976 a question of privilege arose. This is a matter which has arisen on the basis of Crown privilege; it is a matter which has arisen on the basis of parliamentary privilege. To put it very shortly and succinctly, Cabinet decided that privilege should be claimed in respect of evidence and documents except those documents which in fact had been published, and they included documents such as the minute and explanatory memorandum of 13 December 1974 which in fact had been published in this House and in other places and in telexes which had been sent overseas. 
On 20 April 1977 three of the defendants, that is those defendants other than  Mr Justice  Murphy, sought legal aid. In view of certain things that have appeared in the Press may I say that it is not a pan of the Attorney-General's discretion to determine a matter of legal aid. That is a matter for the Government. It is a matter of the appropriation of funds. It is a matter that had to go to Cabinet. Cabinet had before it certain advice and certain documents and in May last Cabinet decided, although it was not communicated until a later date, that the costs of the defendants should be paid. 
At that time also a decision was made by Cabinet to alter the decision on privilege insofar as it related to documents which had been published. That is to say, it was decided that in relation to those documents a claim should be made in future that they too are privileged. I took strong exception to that decision by Cabinet, and I resigned at the time. I then discussed the matter with the Prime Minister. As a result of that discussion it was agreed that that particular question would be resubmitted to Cabinet and that I would abide by the decision of Cabinet. The Prime Minister was going overseas at that time and the matter was to be resubmitted after he returned. 
Towards the end of May, at their request, I saw Messrs Whitlam and the late Rex Connor in my office. During the course of that discussion- I do not propose and I do not think it is relevant to go into the detail- reference was made to the fact that I had not taken over the proceedings. I said to the two defendants that they had not asked me to take over the proceedings, that that was a matter for them. I said that they should go away and talk to their solicitors and that if they wished to make an application to me to take over the proceedings it was open to them to do so. On 3 June, I did in fact receive a letter from their solicitors asking me to take over the proceedings. On 9 June, I received a letter from Sankey 's solicitors, in which letter it was indicated that they had learned of this application to take over the proceedings and that they had an interest in the matter as well. 
On 17 June, I wrote a letter to the defendants' solicitors. It is an important letter because it raised 2 points. It seemed to me that if I was properly to consider the application by the defendants to take over the proceedings I needed to know all the material facts. Honourable members will recall the extract I have read from  Edwards  of  Sir Hartley  Shawcross. He emphasises that the first duty of the Attorney-General is to ascertain all the relevant facts, acquaint himself with all the relevant facts. It seemed to me that it might be necessary for me to interview witnesses, to interview those who had not previously been interviewed, and to have access to relevant documents in the possession of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities. So, I wrote to the defendants' solicitors in these terms: 
It may be necessary for the purposes of my considering their request to have access to relevant documents in the possession of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities. It may also be necessary to interview persons who are or were in the service of the Commonwealth or its instrumentalities at relevant times. Although I do not consider their consent to be necessary, I would be glad to know whether your clients have any objection to me or persons on my behalf having such access or interviewing and taking statements from such persons for the purposes of the request being considered. I would also like to know whether for that purpose, each of your clients would, at an appropriate stage, wish to be interviewed. I note that in the House of Representatives on 28 April last your client, the  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam, said in relation to the matter 
The normal procedure in criminal cases is for prospective defendants to be interviewed by the police so that their statements may be considered before informations are laid. That did not happen in this case. On receipt of your reply to this letter I will consider the matter further. 
On 24 June, I received this reply: 
We are instructed to advise that our clients would have no objection to you or persons on your behalf having access to the documents or interviewing and taking statements from persons in the circumstances to which you refer. 
We also advise that if, after you have considered such documents and/or the statements of such persons, you consider there are matters requiring clarification and /or, additional information in which our clients or any of them can assist, we would be pleased to provide you with any such clarification or information upon request. 
Honourable members will see that at this stage I had an application by three defendants to take over the proceedings. I had obtained the consent of those defendants to having access to witnesses and having access to documents in the possession of the Commonwealth. Having regard to the prior attitude expressed by  Sir Frederick  Wheeler, it seemed to me that I should first seek Cabinet's agreement to my having access to persons and documents. The view I took at the time was that there was no objection and could be no objection based upon looking into the affairs of a previous government. I had in mind that I would appoint a special counsel and that this special counsel would have submitted to him all the statements and all the relevant documents, and advise me as to whether there was a prima facie case against the defendants which should go to a hearing. I also thought that I should seek the assistance and the agreement of Cabinet in the first instance for the reason I have just mentioned. 
The matter came before Cabinet on 26 July last. I sought access to all records and I sought permission to interview and obtain statements from persons who were in the employ of the 
Commonwealth or its instrumentalities. Cabinet refused to agree that I should have this access. Cabinet made it plain to me that in its view I should take over the proceedings and terminate them. I took the position that I could not do so unless I first ascertained all the material facts, according to my duty. I also made it clear that only I could exercise the discretion. I have to say that in making this decision I regarded Cabinet as preventing me from exercising my duty. I had an application to take over the proceedings. I needed to know all the evidence. I regarded Cabinet as trying to control me in the exercise of my discretion by suggesting that there was only one option- termination of the proceedings. I have to say with great regret that I regard Cabinet as having acted wrongly on that occasion. 
I do not believe that Cabinet should prevent the Law Officer from investigating any criminal matter. This is a criminal matter. There are politicians involved; in that sense one can say that it is political. But the fact is that these are committal proceedings before a court. It is a criminal matter and I believe that a basic principle is involved. That basic principle is that where the Law Officer of the Commonwealth believes that there is a matter which ought to be investigated for the purpose of determining whether some breach of the criminal law has been committed he should not have the obstruction of Cabinet; he should have every assistance which Cabinet can give. And if Cabinet has confidence in its Law Officer it will not question him. In this particular matter it seemed to me that Cabinet had a duty to assist me in the determination of the application which was before me. It was suggested that I already had enough evidence. This, of course, is patently not so. I did not have the evidence of  Sir Frederick  Wheeler or  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. I did not have the evidence of  Mr John  Menadue or of  Mr Larkin  and there may have been others. These were all material witnesses. I did not have enough evidence simply because I had before me statements from the SolicitorGeneral and officers of my Department. It was suggested that there was no justification for going any further; that it ought to be patently clear that the proceedings ought to be terminated. The Prime Minister on 9 July 1975, when Leader of the Opposition, said: 
Let us come to that more serious charge which goes to the very integrity of Australian institutions. Facts now before the public raise the strong possibility that there was an illegal conspiracy to defraud and to deceive. Facts now before the public indicate a deliberate devious attempt to avoid by a subterfuge the constraints of the Constitution and to defraud the States. 
Let me read what the Prime Minister, when Leader of the Opposition, said on 21 August 1975: 
The Prime Minister's involvement began when, on 13 December, he signed an Executive Council minute which was an evasion of the Constitution, a conspiracy to defraud the Loan Council. 
I did not think I would have to convince the Prime Minister that I would need to look at all material facts and that I would have to interview, or have interviewed, people such as  Sir Frederick  Wheeler and others- anybody who could give material evidence on these matters. In relation to this case, which will continue to stay with us for some time, I do not believe that the proper course is other than for all the material facts to be looked at and considered. The course that I was proposing was that those facts be looked at not by me but by an independent counsel who would advise me as to whether there was sufficient evidence in the circumstances. 
On 26 July Cabinet agreed, however, that it should be left open to me, as Attorney-General, in respect of the application by the defendants, to pursue the course I might determine. I therefore decided to make another direct approach to witnesses. I must say that in doing so I did not expect much success, and that was the result. I approached  Sir Frederick  Wheeler. I approached the head of the Department of National Resources. I approached  Mr Larkin.  I approached  Mr Carmody.  The result of those approaches was that I still was not able to obtain statements or files in relation to this matter. I then decided that I might consider taking over the proceedings and calling these witnesses; that is to say, not personally, but through a chosen counsel. I then gave that matter consideration and I decided that it was a proper course that I could take. 
It seemed to me that in the circumstances it was a course which the defendants were, in a sense, asking me to take. They were saying that they could not get a proper hearing. It seemed to me that, if they had a Crown counsel and if the evidence were called, this would enable them at least to get a Crown prosecution. So, on the basis of that and on the basis of doing justice to the defendants, that seemed to me to be a proper course to take. I must add that it would be a most unusual course. But it is a most unusual case. Indeed, it is most unusual for an AttorneyGeneral not to have access to all the material evidence and all the material facts and documents. I was in a most unusual position. That is why what may seem otherwise to be an unusual decision was, in fact, unusual. 
On 2 August last I informed the Prime Minister that I proposed to take over these proceedings. On 3 August I saw the Prime Minister at the Lodge. During that conversation the Prime Minister reiterated to me his view that the proceedings ought to be taken over and terminated. I made it clear to him that my view, based on what I did not have, was that I could not take over the proceedings and terminate them. That would not be proper. Therefore we seemed to be in complete disagreement on those two matters. On that occasion the Prime Minister asked me whether I had obtained the advice of the Solicitor-General or whether I had any objection to obtaining his advice. I indicated that because the SolicitorGeneral was a witness he might have had some difficulty in relation to the matter. However, I was prepared to ask the Solicitor-General. I also indicated that I would obtain advice in relation to the matter from the Crown Solicitor, the Secretary of my Department then being overseas. The Prime Minister also indicated that he had spoken to the Solicitor-General and had asked him whether he was prepared to give the Prime Minister advice on the matter. 
On Thursday 4 August I again saw the Prime Minister. I felt very strongly that we were on a collision course. I offered to resign. However, we both agreed that we did not have a fixed mind on the subject. The Prime Minister was going overseas and we agreed to consider the matter the following week. In the meantime, advice was to be obtained from counsel, the Solicitor-General and the Crown Solicitor. It was also obtained from the Acting Secretary of my Department,  Mr Mahoney.  One event of significance occurred. On 5 August I received the following letter from  Mr Justice  Murphy: 
I wish to make it clear that I have not joined in any application to you to take over the conduct of the prosecution of the proceedings brought by  Mr Sankey.  If the proceedings were taken over in order to put an end to them I could not object but if they were taken over with the intention of continuing them I would strongly object as they are in my opinion malicious. In any case you should not be involved in any official decision which adversely affects the defendants. Your personal involvement in this affair including certain statements in Parliament should as a matter of simple justice preclude you from acting as Attorney-General in any way against the defendants. As you are well aware there are ways in which any necessary decision can be made without your participation. 1 also wish to make it clear and my counsel has informed the court that insofar as any consideration arises of Crown or Parliamentary privilege I have not made and will not make any claim of privilege which would exclude any evidence. 
Advice was received during the following week. That week I made a decision. That decision was not affected by anybody. It was my decision. I decided that I would not take over these proceedings. 
On 13 August 1977 the following letter was written by me to the defendants' solicitors: 
At the outset I wish to point out that by letter dated S August 1977 the honourable  Mr Justice  Murphy informed me that he has strong objections to my taking over the proceedings if I had the intention to continue them. To enable me to consider your client's application I thought it proper that I should have before me all relevant documents in the possession of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities and statements from all those who  may  be able to give evidence relevant to the matters the subject of these charges. You will recall that I raised this possibility in my letter to you dated 17 June 1977. The faa is, however, that the whole of the above material is not available to me and consequently it is not possible to make a proper assessment of the evidence that might be led in relation to the charges. In all the circumstances I have decided that it would not be appropriate for me to take over the proceedings at this stage. 
I may say that counsel who advised in relation to the matter stressed that it was important in his view that before deciding what I should do in relation to the proceedings- that is, whether I should take them over to continue them or discontinue them- I should ascertain the facts. That, of course, is a rather simple proposition for any lawyer. One's first task is to ascertain the facts. 
But in the light of  Mr Justice  Murphy's letter and in the light of counsel's advice, I thereupon decided I should not take over the proceedings. The following statement was made in the same letter the defendants' solicitors were informed that: the Commonwealth agrees to pay the reasonable costs as determined by the Crown Solicitor for the Commonwealth of your clients in these proceedings. 

 Mr Speaker, I have been absent from this House for three weeks during which time I was overseas. When I went overseas, I was still deeply concerned about the decision of Cabinet made on 26 July, a decision in which I was refused access to documents and to witnesses. At Winnipeg in Canada I attended the Law Ministers' Conference. One of the matters that we discussed at some length- I did not participate in the discussion; I was more interested to listen because of what was on my mind- was the modern role of the Attorney-General. The following statement was set out in a communique issued by some 3 1 law Ministers: 
In recent years both outside and within the Commonwealth public attention is frequently focused on the function of law enforcement. Ministers endorse the principles already observed in their jurisdictions that the discretion in these matters should always be exercised in accordance with wide considerations of the public interest and without regard to considerations of a party political nature and that it should be free from any direction or control whatsoever. 
They added this sentence: 
They considered, however, that the maintenance of these principles depended to a large extent upon the unimpeachable integrity of the holder of the office. 

 Mr Speaker, while I was overseas an article appeared in the  Canberra Times.  This journal is not one that I find very accurate, with regard to what it says about me and I say no more than that. This may be the experience of other honourable members. But I was once given good advice by a predecessor in the office of AttorneyGeneral. He said: 'Do not worry about the  Canberra Times-  it is only circulated in Canberra; nobody reads it anywhere else'. Despite the defamations that occur from time to time it has never troubled me enough to get worked up about it. Honourable members might, however, have read what was said. The article stated: 
The decision on costs is understood to have been made by Cabinet- a departure from the usual practice in such cases, where the Attorney-General makes his decision alone, in the exercise of his power as first law officer of the Crown rather than as a minister. 
As I have explained, that is quite inaccurate. The decision as to costs is a matter for Cabinet. The discretion as to whether to prosecute is very much a matter for the Attorney-General. The article went on to state: 

 Mr Ellicott is understood to have opposed the decision Cabinet ultimately made, and to have twice threatened to resign over the issue. 
That is not correct. The article continued: 
In the end, according to Government sources, he was 'persuaded' of the ultimate view. 
No such thing occurred. I have not been persuaded of anything by anybody. Throughout this whole exercise, throughout these recent months, the views I have formed and the decisions I have made in the exercise of my duty have been my own. Further on, under heading 'Approval', this article stated: 
Government sources emphasised yesterday that the decision not to intervene did not imply any approval for the continuance of the prosecutions by  Mr Sankey.  The Government's view, they said, was that the electorate had passed its judgment on the overseas loans affair at the 197S elections and that the matter should stop. This was why the Government had refused a prosecution application, soon after the case began in late 1 975, that it take over the case. 
A decision to intervene and then discontinue the prosecutions had been 'muddied' by  Mr Justice  Murphy's firm opposition to the idea that the Government should step in, they said. 
I was deeply troubled about the 'Government sources'. It seemed to me that if that was accurate, that is to say, if it had come from Government sources it was indicating something about the discretion which I had to exercise; it was indicating, in effect, that a decision had been made that these proceedings should be taken over and terminated. But that was a decision which only I, as Attorney-General, could make. I regret to say that  Mr Dickie,  my Press officer, has given me the following statement: 
The day after the publication of the story by  Mr Waterford, Mr David  Barnett telephoned me. He told me that  Mr Waterford  had approached him the day before about the Sankey story. He said  Mr Waterford  seemed to have all the facts associated with the Sankey story and that all that seemed to be missing was the motivation.  Mr Barnett  said that he supplied  Mr Waterford  with the motivation. 
Honourable members will be aware that recently a decision was made by Cabinet that, in answer to an application by the informant,  Mr Sankey,  his costs would not be paid. That occurred while I was overseas. 
As honourable members can imagine, I have given this matter very careful and anxious thought. I have dealt at some length with what has happened in relation to these proceedings, and I hope I have not bored honourable members in so doing. I have done so because I felt it was my duty to indicate what I have done in relation to the matter. It is with very great regret that I have decided that in the circumstances I have no alternative but to resign my position as Attorney-General of the Commonwealth. As I have said already, I believed and I still believe most strongly that what Cabinet did on 26 July 1977 was wrong. Again as I have said, I do not believe that there is any part of government where the criminal law does not run. I believe that a very strong and important principle is involved. I do not want to compare it nor do I want to suggest in any way in what I have been saying here today that I have been engaged in a witch hunt against any of the defendants. What one might learn from documents and from witnesses who have not been interviewed might well be evidence which would support the defendants. 
It is not a risk at all. It is wrong of the honourable member even to suggest it. There is absolutely nothing to suggest in anything that has happened - 
I want to make a few comments on this measure, with which I am quite familiar. The Bill is of some significance because it represents the first measure to be introduced into the Federal Parliament since the first parliament met which restricts the retiring age of Federal court judges. This Bill is an historic Bill in that sense. It will remind honourable members, of course, that this Government promoted three successful constitutional amendments. Since Federation there have been only eight all told, and three of them were successfully put through by this Government last May. This particular amendment was promoted by the Government at the Constitutional Convention last October and was basically in the form of the amendment suggested by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in relation to this matter. 
The fact that an age limit of 65 years is fixed is an indication of a parliament's judgment that there is, in the Family Court of Australia, an appropriate age at which judges ought to retire. Let me say that, in the course of the 30 appointments that I recommended to the Government whilst I was Attorney-General, I stressed to the judges- in fact appointed for life- the desire of the Government that, come the age of 65 years, they might well see fit to retire. Whether they will do that, of course, will depend on how they feel in 10, 15 or 20 years time when they reach that age. But the thought is well and truly in their minds. I am speaking of the judges who have been appointed already. 
As has already been announced, the Government is proposing to appoint another six judges. Those judges probably will be appointed in the States of New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania. The appointment of those judges will bring the complement of the Court to 36. It will then be the largest single court in Australia. The number of judges will exceed the number of judges of the New South Wales Supreme Court, which is currently the largest court. Of course, we are not in the game of building the biggest court. Indeed, there are very good reasons why we should not want to extend the number of judges any more than we have to. Whatever one can say about this, the fact is that both the previous Government and this Government were surprised to some degree by the number of divorce applications received m the first year of operation of the Court. Honourable members will recall statements previously made that we had expected a 50 per cent increase. We expected about 38,000 divorce applications in 1976. That was the expectation of the Australian Labor Party Government. It also was my expectation when I took on the office of AttorneyGeneral. Of course, it turned out quite differently, and there were 65,000 applications in 1976. 
This year the number of applications has fallen back to the projected figure- that is, something between 39,000 and 40,000. That indicates that, if applications continued at that level and if one continued to appoint judges, there could come a time when judges had nothing to do. There is no point in going on appointing judges, even to the age of 65 years, let alone for life, simply to meet what I believe is really a temporary contingency in the Family Court. If one looks at the delays in defended matters one will find that the delays in New South Wales are basically no greater than they were under the old Matrimonial Causes Act- approximately two years. I do not say that that is desirable. With the current rate of work the judges are coping with the divorce applications. Thus they are dealing with divorce applications at the rate of about 40,000 applications per annum. Therefore they are keeping up with this part of the work. 
In defended matters there is an obvious need to do what one can to use the judiciary's time to the best advantage. The Government has taken measures to achieve that very object. For instance, additional registrars have been appointed. It seemed to me as Attorney-General that the registrars could do a lot of the work that the judges were doing- for instance, they could hold regulation 96 and regulation 99 conferences. As a result of decisions made by the Government, some eight additional registrars are being appointed around the Commonwealth. They will add considerably to the work capacity of the Family Court of Australia. They will be able to determine whether it is possible to settle matters before the issues go to the judges. At the same time the Government has been looking at better procedures in order to speed up the various matters that come before the court and to ensure that wherever possible the rninimum delay is involved in the judges getting down to the issues. My basic philosophy in relation to judges is that they are there to determine the issues between the parties. That is their job. To the extent to which purely procedural matters or matters of conciliation can be removed from their jurisdiction, those matters ought to be removed. 
It was always a basic part of the Family Court concept that there would be counselling services. It is very interesting to note that, although it sounds a good idea to have as many counsellors as we can usefully have, the fact is that, come the day when we try to get counsellors, we find that there is a limited number of people who have the qualifications required of counsellors. The Attorney-General's Department has attempted assiduously to increase the counselling staff in Une with the appointment of judges. It is not always easy to find people of the appropriate capacity and training to fill those positions. But the job is under way, and additional counsellors are being appointed. I believe that 36 judges ought to be sufficient to cope with the work of the Family Court, and one would hope that the additional judges would be appointed within the next 6 months. 
Some mention was made of premises. Let me say that the Family Court premises around this country are the most magnificent court premises in Australia. South Australia Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland all have top rate premises. They are premises that members of Parliament ought to visit and inspect because they create a leisurely and informal court atmosphere in which counselling can be undertaken. Public child minding facilities for the children of witnesses and others who come to the court are provided also. The facilities are designed to make the atmosphere of conciliation and counselling the dominant atmosphere of the court. 
It is true that due to the fact that the numbers of applications were underestimated in New South Wales the premises in New South Wales have not been as appropriate and as large as they might have been. But I would like the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to know that the Temple Court building in Sydney is to be used by the Family Court. It is anticipated that those premises will provide for nine courts and appropriate judges' chambers and counselling facilities. These premises ought to be available by 18 December this year. I was concerned to bring about this change of location because the premises at Scandia House have not been satisfactory for many reasons. But the facilities at Scandia House were provided to the Government when the Family Law Act was implemented in January 1976. 
But let us not talk about Family Court premises in a derogatory way, because they are ideal premises. Large sums of money have been provided and any lack of expenditure of funds last year was due to the fact that funds were set aside for the enforcement of maintenance orders under arrangements with the States. Because those arrangements were not concluded but were the subject of negotiation, funds were not fully expended. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith mentioned the need to establish a committee of inquiry. The honourable member will recall that some days ago the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who sits next to me in the chamber, suggested that a parliamentary committee be established. I suggested I think in June in an address in Adelaide that a parliamentary committee to inquire into the operations of the Family Law Act ought to be established next year. I think such a committee should not only look at those questions mentioned today but also look across the board at the whole operation of the Act. 
There is no doubt that many people, usually either deserted wives or deserted husbands, feel a grave sense of injustice as a result of the Act. In saying that, it is not my desire to go back to the Ellicott amendments of 1975. But I believe that we have to comprehend and understand the feelings of these people. We have to understand the feeling of rejection they have when they suddenly find that the other party to the marriage has decided that the marriage is all over. If the wife makes this decision, the husband who does not want to terminate the marriage is kicked out. He has to provide the family home. He does not want to get out of it, but he is told to do so. Under the ordinary approach to custody, the mother keeps the children. In many cases some other gentleman comes along and lives in the family home. The husband is divorced and sometimescertainly in the case of the children- he has to pay maintenance. But he is not even allowed to go into the home. That is a typical sort of case. I am not saying that these problems necessarily can be avoided but a sense of hardship and injustice is being bred in the community in relation to the Family Law Act. 
I think that we need to look not only at the procedural matters, such as the question of premises, which are very important but also at the basic questions of the social effect of the Act. The family has become a less popular institution in our society but it is one that we need to underpin in many ways. We are too ready to take off the shoulders of the family those responsibilities which traditionally belonged to it and put them on the shoulders of the State. This transfer is not helping the family. It means that the family is becoming a less significant unit in society and that people are looking more and more to the state for support instead of to the family. I believe we need to give very careful thought to this aspect of our social fabric. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  mentioned the question of custody, and I would Uke to refer to the point he made. One of the problems that has been faced is the problem of the enforcement of custody orders. There was no lack of enthusiasm on my part or on my Department's part when we sought to achieve the enforcement of custody orders. There is no point in having a judicial system unless one has an appropriate method of enforcing orders. The proposition is as simple as that We need such powers if the judicial system is not to become a charade. The whole purpose is to get an order and to enforce it. 
The transfer of the court order process from the State area- I am not complaining, but it is a fact- to the Federal area caused problems at the police level- whether police would enforce custody orders. Hopefully, this problem has now sorted itself out. The police of this country have agreed that they will continue to enforce warrants in this respect until other provisions are made. I hope there will be no attempt by the police to leave this very important area. I believe however, that, ultimately, we will have to face up to providing some form of enforcement body within the Commonwealth area. I am talking not only of an enforcement body to operate within the Family Court area but also of one to act in other areas such as the High Court. The task of enforcement officers would be to enforce orders of the courts. I believe that ultimately that sort of arrangement will have to be made. Although this is not necessarily police work, I believe that the ponce ought to maintain the present system until governments can afford the funds to establish an alternative. 
The honourable member for Hawker mentioned section 17 of the Social Services Act. I can only say this to the honourable member I know of one or two instances raised by honourable members on this side of the House in which particulars were supplied by the Department of Social Security. I think the honourable member will find that the Department, after having received certain advice, will in fact provide particulars in an appropriate way to help locate a child and have the child taken from the offending parent. 
The honourable member raised the question of overseas enforcement. I would like to tell him that this matter was not left untouched. At the recent Commonwealth Law Ministers Conference, it was a matter of considerable concern not only to Australia but also to Canada and many other Commonwealth countries. A decision was taken to have a look at this matter and to see what could be done. Indeed, the Conference took as an example of a perfect law to adopt our own Family Law Act. It is to be hoped that as a result of the studies by the Commonwealth Secretariat there will be some solution promoted. 
It had been put to me that the Extradition Act could be used. I say quite categorically that I do not believe the abduction of a child should be treated as a criminal matter. To adopt a course will not result necessarily in bringing back the child. The 'child-napping' or whatever one likes to call it, may well be a crime on the part of the parent. But it is no satisfaction to have the parent back and the child somewhere in some other part of the world with his grandparents. This is not a solution. We have to develop some method to bring together the various countries. I suggest that we could start with the Commonwealth countries and adopt reciprocal rules which will provide for the enforcement both of maintenance orders and custody orders. I can assure honourable members that it is a matter that is deeply felt and appreciated, particularly by the Attorney-General of Canada. They can rest assured that it will be prosecuted by this Government and future governments through the Commonwealth Law Ministers Conference. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs seen Press reports regarding a question asked in the New South Wales Parliament alleging that Customs authorities are hamstrung in their fight against drugs and suggesting that the Army, Navy and other military authorities might be used to support Customs activity? Will the Minister inform the House whether any initiative is proposed or necessary in this regard? 
-One has to admire the deftness of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who has spoken to us at great length- indeed for some 20 minutes-about something that has nothing to do with the measure before the House. He did it with the deftness of an equity lawyer and he ended up attacking the validity of something that is not before the House. I do not think he is challenging the particular determination the subject of the legislation before the House because under the Constitution that can be fixed only by the Parliament- that is, the salaries of judges. Insofar as the honourable member attempted to relate the argument to Public Service salaries, it is perhaps significant to point out that this is probably the first time that the salaries of Federal Court judges have been in a sense detached from Public Service salaries. In the past there was a tendency to fix the salaries of Federal Court judges at the same level as salaries for permanent heads in the Public Service. I think that was something that was quite unnecessary and quite unjustified. I can understand public servants wanting to retain that relativity but at the same time in order to do justice to the judges of this country it was necessary to break that nexus, and the nexus has been well and truly broken in the last 12 to 18 months and particularly in relation to the setting up of the Federal Court. Quite obviously in order to attract men of the calibre of  Sir Nigel  Bowen, and others who have joined the court, it was necessary to offer salaries at the level that is fixed in this Bill. For instance, at the time of his appointment he was a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales he was receiving a higher salary than in fact he received when he became a justice of the Federal Court. 
This also raises something else that I wanted quickly to raise. I think the honourable member for Griffith will agree with me on this point. It is time there was a rationalisation of judicial salaries at all levels around this country. I do not have the precise figures in front of me, but the fact is that the Chief Justice of Queensland still receives more than the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia. I think he receives a salary in the $60,000 bracket. That is a very high salary having regard to the fact that the Chief Justice of the High Court is now receiving something in the $55,000 bracket. One has only to compare those two figures to realise that the whole thing has got out of kilter. May I say that this matter was raised at the meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General last year in the hope that they would see the sense of my argument. They were not willing to sit down and work out a system, but the judicial salaries in this country have become so out of kilter that I suggest to the present Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that the time has come to attempt again some form of rationalisation of judicial salaries. 
Let me give the House another example. A magistrate in New South Wales, from recollection, gets as much as a Family Court judge does under this Bill- something in the vicinity of $36,000 a year. The judges of the Family Court of Australia, whether they are judges or senior judges, work very hard. There is no doubt about that. I have little doubt that they apply themselves extremely conscientiously from the beginning of their day to well beyond the time when people ordinarily knock off. The fact is that the work load in the Family Court is being kept down to a reasonable level because the judges are working at a very fast pace. There is no doubt that they ought to be paid a salary, which, having regard to their training and background, is above the salary of a magistrate. I mention this only because I wish to make the point that I have made before, that it is time relativity was established between the salaries of the judges of the various courts- the supreme courts, the High Court and the Federal Court in this country. 
The honourable member for Griffith also mentioned the Chief Judge of the Family Court. I think there is a need to understand that the Chief Judge of the Family Court will soon be overseeing the largest court in this country. She has a tremendous burden of judicial responsibility. Under this measure she receives the equivalent of a judge of the Federal Court of Australia. I suggest to the honourable member that that is not an extravagant sum for her to be paid. The Family Court shortly, when those six judges are appointed, will be. the largest single court in Australia- not concentrated in one place but spread over five States; requiring appellate work as well as original jurisdiction work; but, more than that, requiring the administration not only of judges but also of counsellors, registrars and other people connected with the Family Court. I commend this measure to the House. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Productivity, who represents the Attorney-General in this House. Does the Minister recall the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act, which has now been on the statute book for some months? Does the Minister recall also that, under that Act, certain reforms were introduced which give citizens a simplified method of approaching the court to review judicially decisions by public servants and Ministers? Can the Minister inform the House when this Act will be proclaimed so that citizens can enjoy the benefit of those reforms? 
-I just want to speak in relation to some of the matters that the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has mentioned. He referred to legal aid. The fact is that the amounts appropriated for legal aid under this Government increased from something like $12m in 1975-76 to, I think, $20.2m this year. That is an increase of more than 50 per cent. Last year the amount expended was $ 17.1m. This year it has gone up by a couple of million dollars. In other words, this Government has honoured its election promise. It has, in fact, increased the moneys available for legal aid around this country. From the time the Government came to power it is quite clear that very lengthy discussions took place with the States for the purpose of establishing a rationalised legal aid system in this country. These discussions have gone on assiduously so far as the Commonwealth is concerned since early last year. 
At this stage legal aid commissions are about to commence in Western Australia, the Australian Capital Territory and probably in South Australia. Those legal aid commissions will, we believe, add considerably to the amount of legal aid funds available to the community. The effect of the rationalisation of the institutions that exist in the various States with the Australian Legal Aid Office will be that more funds will flow to the public. It is true that the means test was regulated m March last year, but that means test has applied ever since. It has, in a satisfactory way, meant that people who are really in need of legal aid have been getting it. We know that legal aid, in proportional terms, has basically gone to people who are involved in family law matters. I think that more than 80 per cent of the legal aid vote in fact goes to family law cases. I and others have said that there is a great need to work out in this area some sort of lump sum fee that will, in effect, mean that the legal aid vote for family law will be spread amongst more people in need. I know that this matter has been looked at by the Attorney-General's Department with a view to ensuring that instead of there being a bottomless pit for legal aid- this often occurs in custody and maintenance cases that are defended- in future a lump sum fee will be made available. . The person who is legally aided will have to face die same situation as a non-legally aided personnamely, a limited amount of funds will be available. As regards the honourable member's reference to the form of the legal aid commission, I remind honourable members that the legal aid ordinance that was prepared for the Australian Capital Territory, and is now in operation, provides for a broad span of community interest. It is not only lawyers who are involved in the Commission. Others from the social service and consumer areas are involved. The salaried lawyers made submissions that they should be on the Commission and an undertaking was given to them that within time that would be reconsidered. But basically, what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith mentionednamely, a broadly based commission- is proposed for the Australian Capital Territory. 
He also mentioned the Human Rights Commission. The Human Rights Commission Bill 1977 was introduced on 1 June this year. That Bill followed discussions which took place between the Commonwealth and the State Attorneys General with a view to ensuring that there would be a system of human rights that would, in effect, cover all law within this country. The honourable member well knows that, and he well knows that it was the Government's desire that, if possible, there should be a broadly based commission. However, we cannot force the States into institutions that they do not want to go into. It is not only Queensland that does not want to be part of this Commission. Indeed, the Labor States of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania, do not want to go with the Commonwealth into a human rights commission which would be broadly based. However, they agreed to sit down with the Commonwealth and discuss further the legislation. This agreement came out at the Premiers Conference to which the honourable member for KingsfordSmith referred. There are currently in train arrangements for discussions to take place one hopes in the reasonably near future that will lead to a more broadly based approach to human rights in this country. 
I think there is one aspect at which we should be looking, and that is whether there could be evolved a declaration of human rights that could be adopted by this Parliament and also by every other parliament in the country. Honourable members will know that in Canada there is a declaration of human rights. It is, in effect, part of Canada's constitutional documents. It would be a good thing in this country if we were able to use the covenant on civil and political rights to formulate legislation which formed the basis of a declaration of human rights in this country. It could then act as a guide to legislation in this Parliament and in every other parliament in the country. It could, in effect, be a broadly based, broadly stated document. It could, in effect, be almost a constitutional document although one would have to agree it could be amended by parliaments or it could be departed from. At least it would be a step- a very significant step- towards getting a broadly based system in this country. 
The other purpose for which such a document could be used is as a guide to human rights committees or commissions which would hear applications from members of the public who claimed that in some way their human rights were being infringed. For instance, if somebody said that he was discriminated against in his employment or in some other way- even on a racial or sexist basis- he would be able to go to a commission and put the matter before the commission. The commission could look at it and make a decision. If the decision was one that was capable of being enforced by some order which could be registered, say, in the Federal court or some State court, a human rights system could be evolved in this country which would be broadly based and effective. May I say, however, that this system could not operate unless there was full cooperation between certainly some of the States and the Commonwealth. I have in mind that there could be a human rights committee, for instance, established under State legislation in New South Wales- just to take an examplewhich could have jurisdiction conferred on it by a Federal Act. That committee could administer a State Act and a Federal Act relating to human rights. By that method there could, as I say, be a broadly based situation where human rights could be enforced across the board. As I have said, reference was made to legal aid and also to human rghts. One other matter relating to costs has been raised but I will leave that to other honourable members to deal with. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
As the Minister responsible for this most important pan of Australia, may I say that, as honourable members will be aware, last September my predecessor published some proposals relating to the transfer of powers to a legislative body in the Territory. Those proposals have been the subject of debate and consideration by the local community and by the Legislative Assembly. I expect that by April I will be in a position to formulate some proposals to put to the Government as to the future transfer of powers to an Assembly in the Territory. In the process of doing that it may be necessary to review the role of the National Capital Development Commission. That would involve seeing what its future relationship will be with such a legislative body, should one be established, and also determining what function it will perform within the context of the national capital. 
I do not accept the broad criticism implicit in the question about the role that the National Capital Development Commission has played in the past. Since its establishment in 1958 1 believe it has done a tremendous job in the development of our national capital. It has had its critics. It has had a difficult task to perform, but the national capital is now a city of which all Australians can be proud. I hope that members of this Parliament will cease seeing it as a place to be denigrated and will start to develop a little pride in their national capital. 
I am not aware of any permission that my Department has given in relation to the matter. I will investigate it and give the honourable gentleman an answer when I have it. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Film and Television School Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Australian Film and Television School for the year ended 30 June 1976. In tabling this report, I should explain that the letter of transmittal printed with the report is addressed to the Prime Minister who was the Minister responsible when the report was printed. The report has, however, been furnished to me as the Minister now responsible. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930, I present the statement of receipts and expenditure relating to the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962 I present the annual report of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are 12 full-time tea attendants employed in the Department of the Capital Territory. 
The cost of salaries of the tea attendants in 1976-77 was $83,598 and there were no other costs involved in the provision of services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The Government has not yet made any decisions on the wide range of recommendations of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. The matter, however, remains under consideration and an appropriate statement will be made as soon as this is possible. 
Commonwealth Employment Service: Staffing of Offices in New South Wales (Question No. 97) 
-I am the Minister for Home Affairs in my own right. The honourable gentleman asked a question about the evacuation of Christmas Island. No plan has been approved by me to evacuate Christmas Island. I have no doubt that people who are concerned with Christmas Island may, from time to time, speculate in relation to it. Nothing has come before me under which my approval has been sought for, or that indicates that any other Minister has approved of, a plan to evacuate Christmas Island. Industrial questions have arisen on Christmas Island. So far as I understand, they have been the subject of debate and consultation in recent weeks. I imagine that if the parties involved speak together in a spirit of compromise as is necessary on the Island they will be able to come to agreeable terms. As the honourable gentleman would know, an arbitrator has been appointed. He allowed an award last year. I also understand that the question of the extension of that award is currently being considered. I do not think the honourable gentleman should be concerned about an impending evacuation of Christmas Island. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. It gives me an opportunity to make an important announcement. It is true that during the election campaign the Government promised to establish a permanent women's advisory body. I am very happy to announce to honourable members that the Government has decided to honour that election promise and to establish a National Women's Advisory Council. Honourable members will be aware that in September of last year the report of the women's advisory body working party was presented to the Parliament and was available for honourable members to look at. That resulted from an initiative taken by the Prime Minister in 1 976 to call together women's organisations and representatives of women's organisations from all over Australia. As a result of that initiative, that advisory body was set up. It recommended that a permanent advisory body be established. 
Of course, the new Council will give women a permanent voice in government. It will enable them to give advice to me as the Minister for Home Affairs in relation to all matters of concern to women. This body will consist of 12 women who will be drawn from all walks of life. They will not be on this body to represent particular organisations. They will come with their own experience. They will represent all women- I repeat, 'all women'. At this point I pay a tribute to the women who work in my Office of Women's Affairs. They have come to my Department and have assisted greatly in the establishment of machinery leading to the Government's decision. I hope that in a fortnight or a little longer it may be possible for the Government to announce the membership of this body. But I think that all honourable members will agree that it is a very significant step forward. As I say, it will enable women to have a firm, strong and permanent voice with government in this country. I do not propose to read out the powers and functions of the body. But I think it appropriate that they be incorporated in  Hansard,  and seek leave for their incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

POWERS 
The powers of the Council shall be: to report and make recommendations to Government on request or on its own initiative in relation to matters of concern to women; to set up, subject to Ministerial approval, subcommittees, working parties or task forces as necessary, drawing on its own resources when appropriate and on other resources which may be made available; and at the request of the Minister responsible, to encourage research into areas of importance to women. 
The Council may do all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of its functions. 
FUNCTIONS 
The primary role of the Council will be to advise me, as Minister for Home Affairs, on matters of concern to. women. In furtherance of this function the Council may: establish and maintain effective communication with women and women's organisations and other interested groups and individuals; explore means of overcoming language and other communication barriers; raise awareness within the community of the situation of women and of their varied and changing roles and aspirations; encourage and assist effective liaison with the communications media in ensuring that the individuality and achievements of women are given due recognition; actively promote a policy of equality of opportunity for all women; review and report to the Minister on legislation specifically relating to its powers and functions; convene forums, seminars and conferences throughout Australia; report annually through the Minister to Parliament and the public, and regularly produce publications and other material in several major languages to disseminate information; establish and maintain cooperation with other advisory bodies and relevant machinery at State and Commonwealth levels and internationally, with a view to guarding against unnecessary duplication; and in collaboration with Departments and agencies and through the Depanment of Foreign Affairs establish and maintain liaison with international and regional agencies in relation to implementation of the World Plan of Action for the UN Decade for Women. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Owing to the state of the records of the period in question and because of the inadequate system of record keeping which prevailed at the time, it frequently requires a major search to locate particular documents. When the honourable member sought the papers in the Australian Archives, a search was immediately commenced and is continuing. Every effort will be made to find the papers and the honourable member will be kept informed of progress. 
Investment from Middle East Oil Exporting States (Question No. 352) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government has neither accepted nor rejected at this stage any of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections. 
I have under consideration at present the matters covered in the report of the Committee of Inquiry with a view to making early recommendations on them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Senate question No. 1116 published in Senate  Hansard  on 9 November 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) I am informed that there were no officers from my Department and associated instrumentalities involved in travelling to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. 
As I was the Minister in charge of the passage of the previous Bill dealing with this subject last year, and having heard what has been a very learned debate, I thought that I should say a few words about what honourable members have said. I do not want to be unkind to honourable members; but, with very great respect, honourable members on both sides of the House who have spoken in this debate, I have to say, have not understood what this measure is about. It might be said that those are fighting words. I shall demonstrate, firstly by reference to the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  that there are other provisions in the law to which reference was made last year, to which I apprehend the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will be referring and which were intended to deal with the question that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports raised. 
The honourable member said that it was undesirable that anybody in this country should be engaged in drilling for military purposes. I refer the honourable member to section 27 ( 1 ) of the Crimes Act which states: 
Any person who- 
in contravention of the directions of a proclamation by the Governor-General in that behalf, trains or drills any other person to the use of arms or the practice of military exercises, movements or evolutions; or shall be guilty of an indictable offence. 
When I spoke in this House last year I indicated that the Government was contemplating a proclamation under section 27 of the Crimes Act in order to prevent unlawful drilling for military purposes. 
I should have thought that honourable members would have seen that the Bill was about a very serious problem in this world. It is summarised in one word, and it is terrorism. 
That is what this Bill is about. It is to stop terrorism which is occurring in this world. I should have thought that if honourable members had read the Bill they would have understood that. One honourable member interjected earlier: Have you read the Bill?' Honourable members should have read the Bill more carefully, instead of picking out words, trying to take up the points, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports did, about people inciting others to commit offences or selecting words that are often found in Commonwealth statutes and words which every judge in the land understands. If honourable members opposite had read the substance of the Bill they would have understood that the purpose of it is to stop terrorism. It is to stop the sort of thing that occurred at Tel Aviv airport. It is to stop the sort of thing that occurred recently on the road towardsTel Aviv, which subsequently caused an incursion by Israeli forces into Lebanon. That is what it is designed to stop. In other words, if it were applied in every country it would be wrong to enter another country with intent to engage in a hostile activity against the government of that country. If any Australian did that he would be guilty of an offence and would beliable for the heavy penalty of imprisonment for 14 years. If this legislation were compared with that of other countries it would be seen to be at the vanguard of legislation in this area in the world. 
It is unique. 
The honourable member for Denison, who is sitting behind me, says that it would be an offence to join the Israeli army. 
The honourable member for Denison used the word 'enlist'. It would not be an offence to enlist. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said the same thing. He said that it would be an offence for a Jewish person in Australia to enlist in the Israeli army. It would not be an offence in Australia. What the Government is trying to do- it makes no apology for its action- is to stop anybody in this country going about and recruiting for foreign armies. We want to stop such action in this country. That is the Government's policy. Clause 9 is designed to do just that. 
-Clause 9 ( 1 ) (b) states: 
. publish an advertisement for the purpose of recruiting persons to serve in any capacity in or with such an armed force; 
I have read that provision. A person shall not, in Australia, publish an advertisement. That is to say, a person shall not use an advertisement for the purpose of recruiting others into an armed force. But if a Jewish person in Australia decides that he wants to enlist and writes a letter to Israel or if he decides to answer some correspondence that he received from Israel that person would not be committing an offence under this legislation. We want to stop foreign people who are not acceptable to this country and who are not provided for in clause 9 (2), which provides for the publication of an instrument in the  Gazette,  from coming into Australia and engaging in the act of recruitment in Australia. The Government makes no apology for that. There has been a complete misunderstanding of the relationship between clause 6 and clause 7 of this Bill. 
-Clause 9 (1) (b)- 
That clause provides that a person shall not, in Australia, do any other act or thing for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the recruitment of persons to serve in any capacity in or with such an armed force. That is not enlisting in an armed force. That does not cover enlistment in an armed force. It refers to a person doing another thing for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the recruitment of another person. The person who enlists is not covered by this provision. If anybody does it, it is the Government's policy, which is embodied in this legislation, to stop it. But it does not prevent a person from enlisting. It does not prevent that. What it is designed to do basically in the earlier clauses is to prevent terrorism in this world. One honourable member asked how we could enforce clause 6. Of course, if a person is overseas and Australia does not have an extradition treaty with that country we cannot enforce clause 6. But every Australian should know that if he goes overseas, and engages in such a hostile act he could be liable for 14 years imprisonment if he is caught. If he finds himself in a country with which we have an extradition treaty that covers this sort of offence he will be liable to extradition to Australia. Needless to say, if he finds himself caught in a country where there is hostile activity against its government, no doubt he will be dealt with under the law of that country. 
Clause 6 in itself is designed to stop Australians and people who come here and stir up trouble before going overseas from engaging in what we now describe quite clearly as terrorist activity. That is a term we all understand. If the terrible incident that occurred in George Street in Sydney some weeks ago had been directed against our own Prime Minister by a person from another country which had a law similar to clause 6, if the person who perpetrated that crime came to Australia for that purpose and if that person would under the law of that country had returned to that country and been caught there that person would be liable to 14 years imprisonment. That is just an example of the sort of thing we want to stop. We want to prevent Australians from engaging in those activities overseas. 
It may well be that some of the cases to which honourable gentlemen referred are not covered by this legislation. Honourable members opposite had quite a lot to say about this Bill when it was before this House last year and their colleagues in the other place were party to the Senate Standing Committee's report. They complained about the definition of 'government' here and at the Senate Standing Committee's hearings. As a result of that report the definition of 'government' was made much clearer. I do not hesitate to say that the effect of that was to restrict the operation of the Bill to some extent. But so be it. That was the will of the Parliament. We submitted the BDI to a parliamentary committee and we have amended it for that reason. Honourable gentlemen now regard it as being much clearer than it then was. Its operation probably has been restricted considerably, but I am not complaining about that. 
I am saying that as a result of the amendment it is now precisely clear- not subject to argument- what 'government' means and it is now precisely clear when a particular act wil be a breach of clause 6 of the Bill. To that extent it wil operate. Clause 7 is complementary to clause 6, As I have said, section 27 of the Crimes Act is available to deal with other instances of people engaging in military drill. In recent years- I referred to this matter last year- there have been instances of drilling by people for overseas activities and a deal of evidence has been collected on that. These people were not necessarily people who call themselves Croats. They were people of a different racial background. I understand that section 27 of that Act will be invoked to stop that sort of activity. That is the broader extension of clause 7. This legislation basically is designed to stop terrorists. 
An honourable gentleman opposite said: 'Oh, come on'. I will come on. I will come back to clause 6. If the honourable gentleman cares to read it he will see that it is designed to prevent the type of activity that was undertaken at Tel Aviv airport from being undertaken by an Australian. If it means that people in this country who have a view about the government of the country from which they came are not to go into that country for the purpose of hostile activity against the government of that country, then so be it. It is our Government's policy, and I should have thought it would have been the policy of the Opposition, to support the idea that such people should be discouraged and prevented from doing that sort of thing. Such activity can have no other description than terrorism, and our Government is basically committed to attacking terrorism wherever it is found. I do not believe for one moment that the Opposition is not committed to the very same purpose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. . 
BDI read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 5- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Incursions into foreign countries for purpose of engaging in hostile activities.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances in 1976-77 are set out below. For comparison I have incorporated figures for the two full financial years of the previous Government, i.e. 1973-74 and 1974-75: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3 ) I am informed that there were no officers from my Department and associated instrumentalities involved in travelling to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. 
Termination of Unemployment Benefits  (Question No. 409) (replacement) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not yet made any decisions on the wide range of recommendations of the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. The matter, however, remains under consideration and an appropriate statement will be made as soon as this is possible. 
Pursuant to section 38 of the Australian Council Act 1 975 I present the annual report of the Australia Council for 1 976-77. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to add to an answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
The suggestion by the honourable gentleman that I have censored Film Australia is rather offensive. The fact is that I have not censored it. He means there has been - 
-Just a minute Little  Sir Echo;  wait until the answer comes through. The fact is that under the Australian Film Commission Act one of my, perhaps, unenviable tasks is to approve of every film produced by Film Australia. That means, of course, that I have to give consideration to every film. In approaching that task I do not regard the Minister as being a rubber stamp and I do not think this House would expect me to be a rubber stamp. On the other hand I do not have a view that Film Australia cannot produce a feature film. If it wishes to produce a feature film that in itself is no basis for an objection to its doing so. Again, if it is going to produce a feature film which will be shown in public cinemas, there ought to be a special reason for its doing so instead of the private sector doing it. That is a consideration. I do not think the honourable gentleman would disagree with that proposition. 
If Film Australia feels that there are special reasons for making a feature film, it seems to me that if the purpose is to show the private industry that it can make a serious film on a serious subject and have it receive popular acclaim through the box office there ought to be a reasonable chance of its receiving such acclaim. Again I hope the honourable gentleman would not disagree with that proposition. I say at the outset that no so-called political censorship whatsoever was involved in this matter. I purposely did not see the script. I saw a synopsis of this film and throughout the whole matter I relied entirely on advice which was given to me by the Australian Film Commission or on documents supplied to me by the Commission. 
-Just a minute. The honourable member ought not to talk too soon. I have to base my assessment on what is put in front of me. One of the things that were put in front of me was the synopsis. I am quite happy to table the synopsis if the honourable gentleman would like me to do so. Is the honourable gentleman happy about that? I will table the synopsis. Further, I had a letter from  Mr Rose  who I think is distribution manager of Hoyts Theatres, one of the largest distributors of films in Australia. He has seen the film script. I will read what he says. The people in the public gallery might perhaps-- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
As to ( 1 ) Sum spent on advertising: 
1 1 November 1975 to 13 December 1975, $6,393.92; (b) 14 December 1975 to 30 June 1976, $14,211.52; (c) 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977, $81,628.51; (d) 1 July 1977 to 31 March 1978, $54,195.55. 
As to (2) Cost of each campaign: 
Anti-litter campaign 1976-77, $15,708.96; (ii) Antilitter/recycling campaign 1977-78, $7,341.68 (to date). 
Other expenditure was on an ad hoc basis for items such as road closures, transport services, recruitment notices, recreational programs, land sales, etc. 
As to (3) Item of expenditure: 
General Advertising- Division: Administrative; SubDivision: Administrative Expenses; Advertising: Item. 
Bus Operations (Trust Account)- Losses subsidised byDivision: Administrative; Sub-Division: Other Services; Item: City Omnibus Service. 
As to (4), (5) and (6) Agencies/Consultants: 
The Australian Government Advertising Service was used for all advertising. Agreements, fees, etc., with other agencies/consultants is the responsibility of the Service. 
As to (7) Estimated expenditure 1 977-78, $85,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the questions ( 1) to (4) I am informed by my Department as follows: 
As to ( 1 ) Funds appropriated for Commissioner for Housing loans and the amounts drawn against those appropriations during each of the past 5 years are tabled hereunder 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of theDepartment of the Capital Territory were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 468 ( House of Representatives  Hansard,  4 April 1 978, page 978 ). 
One has to admire the honourable member's courage in asking me a question today. The fact is that the Government is very concerned about making use of the great treasures, which have been stored in this national capital, to attract tourists from other parts of Australia and from other parts of the world. I do not want to go into this matter at great length, but each year approximately 2,250,000 people come to this capital city as visitors. Of those 1,750,000 people, I understand, represent genuine tourists. The present situation is that there is an Australian Capital Territory Tourist Advisory Board. I have announced my intention to reconstitute that Board and to put on it people who are involved in the tourist industry from other parts of Australia, with a view to their being able to add their expertise, their enthusiasm and their national spirit, to attract tourists to the national capital. 
The fact is that there has been a slow-down in the growth rate of Canberra. The rate is forecast at about 3 per cent per annum in terms of population growth. That means a downturn from about 10 per cent in recent years, particularly during the time of the Labor Government. As a result of that downturn and also as a result of the fact that most of the building that has to be done in the national capital has either been done or is planned, inevitably one has to look to other areas for development. The tourist industry is certainly a very important aspect of Canberra's future economy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that statistics are kept by the Australian Capital Territory Police Force relative to the increased incidence of the crime of receiving stolen property. 
It has long been presumed that if there were less receivers of stolen property there would be less thieves. 
Members of the Police Forces due to their professional association with criminal elements and their access to records relative to criminal elements do gain knowledge which if abused either as a serving or ex-member of a Police 
Force would enable them to contact thieves for the purpose of receiving stolen property. 
No statistics are kept relative to the involvement of expolice in the crime of receiving stolen property. Identification of offenders as ex-police would be in many instances most difficult. 
1 have no such knowledge relating to an ex-member of the A.C.T. Police Force. 
The crime of receiving stolen property in punishable in the Australian Capital Territory upon indictment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed by my Department that there are no staff in the head office or in other offices of the Department employed on tea-making and distribution. 
I am informed by my Department that nothing was expended in (i) of (ii). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Drafting of archives legislation has been completed. Depending upon the requirements of the legislative program, it is hoped that the Bill will be introduced into Parliament in the near future. 
Production of Motor Fuel from Coal (Question No. 826) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Home Affairs was established on 20 December 1 977 to carry out certain functions which had previously been the responsibility of the Departments of Administrative Services and the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The latter Departments still retain the relevant financial records for the financial year 1976-77. Consequently, the information sought by the honourable member in relation to the Department of Home Affairs is being included in the figures supplied in the answers to Question No. 443 addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services and Question No. 439 addressed to the Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed as follows: 
ANGAU War Diaries, including those kept by the Legal Section of H.Q., ANGAU, are in the custody of the Australian War Memorial. 
The file 506/1/4 'A file dealing with trials, held by Australian New Guinea Administration Unit, for various Civil Offences committed by Natives, 1943-44' is in Commonwealth Record Series A2663, 'written records files, war of 1939-45, multiple number system', at the Australian War Memorial. 
All known extant files of  Sir William  Webb are held by the Australian War Memorial which also holds a copy of his 1943-44 report entitled 'A Report on Japanese Atrocities and Breaches of the Rules of Warfare'. 
In answer to the honourable member's earlier and related question No. 33 1 of 1 March 1 978, 1 explained that the state of the records for the period in question would probably require a major search to locate the documents sought. I now provide the honourable member with the results of the search carried out by Australian Archives staff. 
Evidence in the ANGAU War Diaries held at the Australian War Memorial suggests that confirmation of sentences imposed pursuant to trials held in New Guinea was made by the GOC, First Australian Army. The proceedings, together with confirmation of findings and confirmation or commutation of sentence were then forwarded to HQ ANGAU. 
The Department of the Army file 85/1/671 'Death and other sentences imposed on Natives in New Guinea' in Accession MP 742/1 'General Correspondence' held in the Victorian Branch of Australian Archives, indicates that in this case the report on the trials by the GOC First Australian Army, the proceedings, the summary of the trials, and the original minutes of confirmation of the sentences were forwarded to Land Headquarters, Melbourne for transmission to the Minister for External Territories. 
A search of records held by Defence archival authorities in Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane and of other possibly relevant records in Australian Archives (including files of the Departments of External Territories, Defence, AttorneyGeneral's, Prime Minister's and Foreign Affairs) has failed to find any trace of the documents or any reference to their disposition. 
The military records of ANGAU were transferred to the Australian War Memorial after the war. It is understood that they were heavily culled. A thorough search of records held by the Australian War Memorial, including war diaries of ANGAU, HQ First Australian Army 'A' Branch and New Guinea Force 'A' Branch together with the Webb collection of donated papers and 'A Report of Japanese Atrocities and Breaches of the Rules of Warfare' by  Sir William  Webb failed to locate the documents requested. 
Item 506/1/4 'A file dealing with trials, held by Australian New Guinea Administration Unit, for various Civil Offences committed by Natives, 1943-1944' in CRS A2663 Written Records Files, War of 1939-45, multiple number system', at the Australian War Memorial, refers to the execution of Embogi and Baji. The proceedings of the trials are, however, not included. This file also indicates that reports of the executions of these two persons are located in HQ ANGAU memos LS 134 of July 1943 and LS 172 of 17 September 1943. These memos would have been issued by New Guinea Force 'A' Branch but do not appear in the relevant diary. 
If the documents were returned to ANGAU they should, in accordance with Army Headquarters memo 135675 of 15 October 1945, have been handed over to the Provisional Administration. In 1959, the Administrator of the Territory of Papua New Guinea informed the Archives Division, Commonwealth National Library, through the Department of Territories, that the only extant records of the Provisional Administration were a few Patrol Reports, the balance having been destroyed in the fire at the Government Secretary's Office in 1949. 
The personal papers of the then Minister for External Territories, the Honourable E. J. Ward, held in the National Library of Australia have also been examined but without success. 
Electoral: Inclusion on Ballot Papers of Particulars of Party Affiliations  (Question No. 909) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that Convention No. 65 has not been ratified by Australia and that no laws in the overseas Territories with resident populations conflict with the requirements of the Convention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
a) I am advised that, in addition to the Commonwealth subsidy for 1977 made available through the Australia Council's Literature Board,  Quadrant  received a grant of $1,500 from the New South Wales Government and a further $4,800 in general donations. 
I am informed by the Literature Board that Quadrant's advertising income in 1977 was $20,071. The Board informs me that it does not have the details of the allocation of advertising revenue. 
I have nothing to add at this stage except to say that the policies announced received very wide support on the Island and that I had very useful discussions with the Council following the reading of the statement to the Council and to the Island over the local radio. In those discussions I began the process of consultations which was promised in the statement. I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In conformity with the practice of previous Governments, the matters considered by Interdepartmental Committees and their reports are not normally made public. The scheme adopted by the Government applies only to public art galleries, libraries and museums. In response to a question from the honourable member on 13 April 1978 I indicated that difficulties would arise in drawing the line in relation to tax deductions if the scheme was extended to include public places and buildings. 
I believe it would be beneficial to the community however, if the institutions participating in the scheme of Tax Incentives for the Arts were to set aside suitable material from their collections which would be available for display in parks, squares or buildings open to the public. 
A proposal for an Art Bank, which I am currently considering, might be a better medium for assisting greater public access to works of art and other cultural material. I hope that we can advance the establishment of an Art Bank in the ensuing 12 months and I will ensure that the honourable member 's suggestion is carefully considered. 
The Government has already announced that estate duty will be abolished in relation to all property in the estates of persons who die on or after I July 1 979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The answer to these questions was provided in the statement of the Government's position made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 5 April 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
136. 
$15,319.75. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the successive Chairmen of the former Board of Management and Chairmen of Trustees for the Australian War Memorial since 1945 have been: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. Nil. 
I am informed that there was a decrease of 38 percent in imports of scotch whisky to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands in 1977(312 bottles) over 1976 (504 bottles). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that there are 19 comprising five in Central Office, 13 in Australian Archives and one in the Australian War Memorial. 
Nil. 
In the absence of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in this place I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  for the information of honourable members a copy of the statement made tonight by the Attorney-General in the other place regarding the Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Electoral Redistribution of Queensland in 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows 
I am concerned that a wide range of information services should be available to women. Consistent with this view I have proposed that the Officer of Women's Affairs should have a shop-front which would provide easy access to such information. 
I have been advised by the Minister for Social Security that her Department has no plans to publish a separate directory of support services for women. The Department of Social Security produces numerous leaflets for the public on the services it provides. 
My own Department is currently considering the feasibility of producing a directory of services for women and I expect to receive a report on this matter at an early date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In declining to give my approval to the production of the film, I took into account (inter alia) the views expressed by each of these persons. 
The document which I tabled in the House was headed: 
The Prisoner 
Phillip Adams ' Comments '. I relied on it as being an accurate statement of his views. It  was forwarded to me by the Australian Film Commission. The  Chairman  of the Commission informs me that the document was prepared by  Mr Timothy  Read, Head of Production of Film Australia, following a telephone conversation which he had with  Mr Phillip  Adams. The  Chairman  also assures me that  Mr Read  took lengthy notes of the conversation and that the document supplied to me accurately records the views expressed, and statements made to  Mr Read,  by  Mr Adams. 
, (4) and (5) The honourable member should consult the persons and companies named on these matters. 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to a question on 2 May 1978 at  Hansard,  page 1593, second column. 
Tax Sharing: Stage II Arrangements (Question No. 1077) 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Film and Television School Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Australian Film and Television School for the year ended 30 June 1977. I draw the attention of honourable members to the qualification to the accounts in paragraph (c) on page 39 of the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that there are no staff canteens operated by the, Department and nor are there any arrangements made by the Department for any staff canteen to be operated by private enterprise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. A Bill for an Ordinance to require the fitting of seat belts in motor vehicles other than motor cycles, buses, and motor vehicles with a gross vehicle mass in excess of 4.50 tonnes manufactured on or after I January 1965 is in final stages of preparation. The Bill will be sent to the ACT Legislative Assembly for their consideration and recommendation soon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  lam informed by my Department as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. A Bill for an Ordinance to provide for the compulsory wearing of seat belts (where available) by children between 8 and 13 years of age is in final stages of preparation. The Bill will be sent to the ACT Legislative Assembly for consideration and comment soon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
Yes. 
Consideration of legislation to control the sale of unapproved child restraints is complete. 
(a) The need for legislation to control the sale of child car seats and harnesses not certified to comply with Australian Standard 1754 was considered by the Commonwealth/State Consumer Products Advisory Committee last year. This Committee makes recommendation to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on product safety matters. The Australian Capital Territory is represented on the Committee. 
The Committee has agreed in principle that a product safety standard for child car seats and harnesses should be gazetted under the Trade Practices Act, and it is understood the recommendation is being processed within the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
Action to control the sale of such items Australia-wide by means of the Trade Practices Act was preferred to the introduction of separate legislation for the Australian Capital Territory. lt is hoped that the product safety standard will soon be gazetted. 
A Bill for an Ordinance to require the wearing of restraints by children (where available) and to make it an offence to carry an unrestrained child between i and 8 years of age in the front seat of a vehicle which has rear seats is in final stages of preparation. The Bill will be sent to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly for their consideration and comment soon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) No. This suggestion will be drawn to the attention of the members of the Historic Memorials Committee. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 15to 19(1978). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled, on behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals Nos 15 to 19 formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette notice during the last recess which implement the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on metal working machine tools, vices, brassieres, orange juice, domestic refrigerating appliances, et cetera, ball and roller bearings, and hoists, pulley tackle and winches, and the Temporary Assistance Authority in its report on insulators. A comprehensive summary of the changes contained in the Proposals has been prepared and is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.15 to 8 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
(a), (b) and (c) Nil. The Department of Home Affairs was established on 20 December 1 977. (d)$21,646from 1 July 1977 to date. 
and (3) Philatelic advertising, Christmas Is. Division 157-2-05-$4,027 
Tax Incentives for the Arts- Division 336-3-01 -$12,825 
Recruitment advertising, Office of Women's AffairsDivision 336-2-05-$4,139 
Advertising for Conservator, Australian Archives Office-Division 136-2-06-$655 (4), (5) and (6) Arranged by the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
Philatelic advertising, Christmas Island- $10,000 
Tax Incentives for Arts-$ 12,882 
Recruitment advertising, Office of Womens' Affairs-$4,139 
Advertising, Australian Archives- $655 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to question no. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no staff canteens operated by the Department nor are there any arrangements made by the Department for any staff canteen to be operated by private enterprise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
The National Memorials Ordinance 1928 establishes the Canberra National Memorials Committee. This Committee is continuing. 
Membership of the Committee includes: The Prime Minister, the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the Minister for the Capital Territory, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. 
VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 1168) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australia Council has advised me that its Literature Board holds a list of authors who were assisted by the former Commonwealth Literary Fund between 1939 and 1973. It does not hold records of payments made in relation to these grants. I am further advised that a full list of payments made by the Commonwealth Literary Fund would require an extensive search of archival records of several departments. In the circumstances I am not prepared to release scarce staff resources for this task. Records are readily available of payments made from the Literature Board from 1 July 1973, when it was established. The 10 major recipients of grants from the Board are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections spelled out in detail the extent of deterioration of art collections in Australia. Storage and the lack of qualified conservators are the major problems and action is being taken by the Government to overcome them. 
I am informed that the Visual Arts Board of the Australia Council has in the past, assisted several regional galleries in Victoria in conserving their collections. The Board has also provided salary assistance for conservators at the Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery and the Queen Victoria Museum and Art Gallery, Launceston. In the latter instance, no appointment has yet been made. 
The Canberra College of Advanced Education introduced courses in materials conservation in 1978. These courses which are at post graduate and undergraduate level are funded by the Commonwealth under normal Advanced Education arrangements. 
I am informed that the Public Service Board has undertaken a review of the structure and pay rates of conservator staff. After comparison with overseas organisations and State instrumentalities, as well as extensive consultations with interested agencies, the Board has near completion a proposal to revise structures and pay rates for conservators. A decision is expected shortly. 
With the availability of this structure, it is anticipated that prospects for recruiting conservator staff will be enhanced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention was drawn to the re-enactment of Captain Cook 's voyage along the east coast of Australia. Iam not aware of any other activities being organized in eastern Australia to mark this anniversary. 
The Government did not make a financial contribution to the re-enactment voyage. 
The only activity I am aware of, which might be described as international, is the formation of a Captain Cook Trust in Britain which has launched an international appeal to set up a Captain Cook Birthplace Museum. 
In regard to the activities in Britain I understand that the Australian Government has been asked to provide some practical assistance to the Captain Cook Trust. 
The organisers of the re-enactment voyage along the eastern Australian coast sought some practical assistance from the Government. This request was not agreed to. 
I have asked my Department to consult with other interested Departments and Authorities with a view to submitting recommendations on proposals for celebrating these anniversaries in Australia and Britain. It should be noted, however, that this anniversary falls soon after the 1970 Bicentenary when a major contribution was made by the Commonwealth to the celebrations which then took place. 
I will give consideration to making a statement at a time closer to the anniversary. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5) I am informed by my Department as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
1 ) The names of the statutory authorities, corporations or undertakings for which the Minister for the Capital Territory has responsibility are: 
ACT Architects Board 
ACT Electricity Authority 
ACT Fire Brigade 
ACT Legislative Assembly 
ACT Totalizator Agency Board 
Agents Board of the ACT 
Building Review Committee 
Building Standards Committee 
Bush Fire Council 
Canberra Commercial Development Authority 
Canberra National Memorials Committee 
Canberra Public Cemetary Trust 
Canberra Retail Markets Trust 
Canberra Showground Trust 
Canberra Theatre Trust 
Commissioner for Housing 
Consumer Affairs Council 
Design and Siting Review Committee 
Festival Australia Incorporated 
Fire Brigade Appeal Board 
Fire Brigade Promotions Appeal Tribunal 
Land Commissioner 
Liquor Licensing Board 
Milk Authority of the ACT 
National Capital Development Commission 
National Capital Planning Committee 
Poker Machine Licensing Board of the ACT 
Police Force of the Australian Capital Territory 
Police Appeal Board 
Police Arbitral Tribunal 
Surveyors Board of the ACT 
Trustees of the  Dr W.  G. Duffield Private Burial Ground 
Valuation Review Board 
Details of funds appropriated in the Budget to each statutory authority, corporation or undertaking are as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">Footnote: Whilst moneys are not appropriated direct from the budget to these statutory authorities moneys are provided to the Department of the Capital Territory from the budget to meet certain expenditure associated with those authorities and this money is generally shown under omnibus appropriations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Literature Board of the Australia Council has advised that: 
1 ) The Board subsidises every issue of  New Poetry  magazine; the grants are intended for the general expenses of producing the magazine, including the payment of contributors, but the Board does not specify what proportion of the grant must be used to pay contributors. 
The amounts paid in the specified years were (a) $6,900 for four isses (b) $4,000 for two issues to 31 May 1978. 
According to reports forwarded to the Board by the magazine, contributors have been paid for all issues which have received funding to date. 
The Board has received no complaints concerning the magazine. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No decision has been taken at this time to sponsor activities to mark this anniversary. I have however, asked my Department to consult with interested Departments and Authorities with a view to submitting recommendations on proposals for celebrating these anniversaries in Australia and Britain. It should be noted that this anniversary falls soon after the 1970 Bi-Centenary when a major contribution was made by the Commonwealth to the celebrations which then took place. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department closely co-operates with established companies in the field of recycling in Canberra. 
Industry groups recycle paper and cardboard from commercial and residential areas on a programmed basis. 
The Department has established recycling centres for glass, paper, cardboard and cans in north Canberra. Further centres will be developed in south Canberra at Phillip and at the new landfill tip within the next few months. Materials recycled are forwarded to Sydney or Melbourne by industry groups. 
The Department has a contract for the disposal of car bodies in the Australian Capital Territory. Approximately 3,000 to 4,000 derelict cars are handled each year. 
The National Capital Development Commission has an arrangement with an industry recycler for removal of waste paper from buildings occupied by the Commission. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Norfolk Island annual report for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Government has decided that the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority should find all those funds for capital works which it cannot meet from its own internal revenue sources through the semi-governmental borrowing program rather than half of these requirements being provided for in the Budget as has been the previous practice. The borrowing powers of the Authority are contained in section 26 of the principal Act. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend section 26 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1 962 to provide: 
that the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority, which is constituted by the principal Act, may borrow moneys by issuing securities; 
that the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, may guarantee the repayment of moneys, and interest thereon, borrowed by the Authority otherwise than from the Commonwealth; and 
that the Commonwealth's guarantee will apply to borrowings, including interest thereon, by the issue of securities by the Authority where the securities are of a prescribed kind. 
The opportunity has been taken in the Bill to provide for the Authority to borrow by the issue of securities and to attach the Commonwealth's guarantee to them where they are of a prescribed kind. This will place the Authority on the same basis as the Australian Telecommunications Commission and other modern statutory authorities. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)&amp;(2) I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In addition to the information in respect of Government Departments generally which was provided by the Minister for Administrative Services in response to Question No. 1437, 1 am informed that the Australian Archives, the Australian War Memorial and each of the statutory bodies for which I am responsible have appropriate arrangements for the recycling of waste paper and, where the quantities are sufficient, waste metal, timber, glass and film. 
Teacher/Non-Teacher Staffing Ratios in Tertiary Institutions (Question No. 1462) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Depanment as follows: 
(a) 1 976- S 1 93,065; (b) 1 9 7 7- $2 5 8 , 82 8 ; (c) 1978- $128,523 (to 31.5.78). 
175,480 hours. 
1976-17, 1977-27, 1978-17. 
(a) 1976- $189,313, 1977-5244,491, 1978- $116,684. 
1976- $3,752, 1977- $14,337, 1978- $ 1 1,839. 
1976- NU, 1977- Nil, 1978- Nil. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Primary Industry (Question No. 1348) 
It is a pity honourable members opposite do not ask me questions relating to my portfolio. I have been sitting there for weeks. However, I was present at a meeting of Ministers on the afternoon on 8 August and I read a statement that the Prime Minister put out yesterday. My recollection of what took place at that meeting is consistent with the Prime Minister's asking  Mr Robinson  to write a letter to the effect- as to his recollection- of the draft that was produced yesterday. On that occasion, when the matter was raised, I said to those present that I thought that  Mr Robinson  would be unwise to sign anything unless he checked it with- unless it was consistent with- his evidence. I suggested that he should read his evidence, and all those present, including the Prime Minister,  Mr Lynch, Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Robinson,  agreed. 
Subsequently, at a meeting of Ministers, my recollection is that I suggested, when the matter was raised, that  Mr Robinson  should get advice in relation to the matter and those present, so far as I was aware, agreed; and subsequent to that meeting, when whatever business I had to do with it was completed, I said to  Mr Robinson  outside the meeting that I thought that he should not sign anything until he got advice from his counsel,  Mr Hughes. 
Not to my knowledge. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the National Gallery Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Australian National Gallery for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I assume the question relates to the subject of the trial and execution of 21 indigenes which has been the subject of previous questions by the honourable member. 
I am informed by my Department that it is a fact that the Official War Histories make no specific references to the trials and executions of these indigenes for murder, treason and related crimes during the period of administration of the Australian New Guinea Administration Unit during World War II. 
Whether or not the Australian War Memorial or the Australian Archives or for that matter, other relevant departments and agencies within the Australian Government, actually have in their custody any specific or complete records of the trials referred to in part ( 1 ) of the question, has not yet been fully established. It is true that in attempts to locate these files searches have been conducted at various times since 1 945 when questions on this subject were first asked in Parliament, but without success. It is possible that a continuing search might locate them but as I have indicated in answers to previous questions, the history of the physical conditions, the movement and the general treatment of the ANGAU records and other wartime records of the period, it is probable that these records together with many other ANGAU records have been lost or destroyed by fire or tropical weather conditions. Until the records are located, then it is impossible finally or objectively to answer sub-questions (2)(a)to(j). 
As to why the incidents have been unrecorded by historians and other writers of the period, it must be said that some writers have briefly recorded the incidents but not in sufficient detail or with sufficient evidence to enable questions (2) (a) to (i) to be answered. There is, however, some evidence by one personally involved in the events, namely Tom Grahamslaw,  Lt Col in  ANGAU in his article in the Pacific Islands Monthly of May 1971. Honourable members will know that this and other publications have recently been mentioned in the press, particularly in the  Age  of 22 May. 
As the war histories record many other unfortunate wartime occurrences of a similar nature which took place in New Guinea, I can only assume that objective historians although they have known through verbal accounts and through allusions in files which have remained and are available for research, are not prepared to write history without the necessary supporting evidence. 
The task of filling in the 'gap in the collective national memory' as the honourable member expresses it, involves two functions. The first is to locate the records. That is a proper function of the Australian Archives, the War Memorial and all relevant departments and agencies likely to have come in contact with them. As I said, the search has been continuing since 1945 and will continue within the limits of physical and material resources of these organisations. I am informed that all relevant Government agencies in my own and other departments have again been alerted and the search will continue and that when and if relevant records are located, the honourable member will be informed. The second function is the detailed research which must take place within the records when they are located in order that objective and accurate historical interpretation might be achieved. This task will involve a major research program which must take many months and possibly years and the task of answering some of the questions posed by the honourable member is one for legal, military, defence and other experts. It is not a task for those whose responsibility it is to locate the records. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by the Director-General of the Australian Archives as follows: 
There are entries in the ANGAU War Diary which record that trials were held in some of the areas referred to in the question but the proceedings of these trials are not appended to the ANGAU War Diary. A file (A 2663 506/ 1 /4 ) in the custody of the Australian War Memorial records charges and findings of trials against some indigenous people. No proceedings or transcripts are included in this file, which has been open for public access since 9 January 1975 and has been examined by researchers since that date. 
The question cannot be answered conclusively concerning material in the Australian Archives without a very extensive search of an enormous range of material. The search so far conducted by the Archives and other agencies within the limitations imposed by time and resources has located a great number of files of potential relevance. These have been listed and the list will be forwarded to the honourable member. The list is also available for public reference in the Australian Archives search rooms at Parkes. 
) Some ANGAU documents are still in existence including the war diaries already referred to. These diaries are open to public access but some individual documents within the diaries have been closed to public access in accordance with Commonwealth Government policy. Checks to date of those documents closed in this manner reveals that none so closed relates in any way to trials of any nature. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is the most recent of many similar questions on the same subject by the honourable member and I must point out that all his questions taken together amount to a request not only to monitor the accuracy of Press reports but to mount a full scale research program involving numerous staff from several departments and much time and money. This type of prolonged research into an issue over 40 years old is best carried out by interested individuals and organisations and such records as have survived the absence of proper archival services are, of course, open for research by the honourable member, historians, societies and members of the public generally. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Question No. 1347) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
1 ) No. However, provision for this work was sought in the Estimates for the 1978-79 financial year. Those Estimates are still before the Parliament. 
See answer to question ( 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a)-(c) The Department of Home Affairs was established in December 1977. Expenditure on maternity leave to 30 June 1 978 was $ 1 6,77 1 .7 1 . 
9,908 hours. 
Two persons. 
This information is not available from records maintained by my Department. 
in reply- This debate which relates to the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Amendment Bill has ranged over many other subjects. Indeed, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  for half an hour dealt with many matters which passed beyond this Bill. Notwithstanding what the honourable member said, this Bill will not really increase the cost to the Canberra consumer at all. It has been the practice of the Commonwealth over the years to ensure that the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority receives its funds through the Treasury and that it pays, of course, the long term bond interest rate. What is intended in the future is that the authority will borrow its moneys outside, and again it will be able in the ordinary course to obtain those funds at the long term bond interest rate. Of course, the interest bill increases depending on the amount that is borrowed. For instance, in 1978-79 an amount of about $2.8m is to be borrowed. The amount has not been as great as that in previous years. For instance, the annual interest charge in 1 976-77 was $ 1. 1 m and in 1 977-78 it was $ 1 .3m. The interest charges have been approximately 4 per cent of the income of the ACT Electricity Authority. So there is nothing in the argument put forward by the honourable member for Melbourne. 
This Bill will simply enable the authority to borrow on the outside market. The legislation will give the authority power to do something it could not do before. The legislation has nothing to do with a Budget fiddle to which the honourable member referred. All the legislation simply does is to enable the authority to do what authorities do right around Australia. Why should not the authority borrow on the open market? Why should it have to be tied to the Treasury all the time? Why should it not get out on its own, get into the open market and get the best deal it can in relation to funds and other matters? 
It is not the object of this Government in effect to put its statutory authorities so close to government that they cannot move. As the honourable member for Melbourne pointed out correctly in one part of his speech, the Government in effect has given the ACT Electricity Authority powers similar to those of Telecom. One has seen the advantages that Telecom has been able to gain from these powers, and we are even seeing some reductions in telephone charges. The honourable member for Melbourne knows that but he will not admit it. He says that the charges are going up all the time, but in fact in some areas they are going down. 
Honourable members opposite seem to want me to refer to self-government. Quite clearly this debate has nothing to do with self-government. The honourable member for Melbourne did not even know that this morning I announced that the referendum and the election in the Australian Capital Territory will be held on different dates. That only indicates, as the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  pointed out, the great flexibility of this Government. But the honourable member for Melbourne had not even heard about this proposal. I spoke about it on television tonight and I talked to the Press about it. Still the honourable member has not heard about it. I even sent a notification to his office. However, he did not read it. What is wrong with the honourable member? What has he been doing today? Of course the Government has announced it. 
-I can only regret that the honourable gentleman was not in his office today. In the short period of time I have left- I might have to extend the debate a little past 10.30-1 want to refer to the fact that the honourable gentleman does not seem to have read the statement that I put out in relation to self-government. 
Debate interrupted. 
I was saying that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  did not seem to be aware of the fact that the Government had announced the financial arrangements which would clarify the position for the people of the Territory in relation to selfgovernment. They were set out clearly in the statement I made in August in which I announced the Government's decision in relation to this matter. The financial principles that were laid down are intended to enable the people of the Capital Territory to know more preciselynot in dollars and cents, but much more precisely- what the obligations of the Territory will be and what the obligations of the Commonwealth will be under the proposals for selfgovernment. There is a tendency on the part of honourable gentlemen opposite to cling to the principle that self-government is something that is non-negotiable. I do not know whether honourable members opposite know what that means but I assume that they do. It is a reflection, I should have thought, on the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  to say that it is nonnegotiable. He is a representative of selfgovernment in the Territory. The Territory is part of a self-governing Commonwealth. The High Court of Australia has upheld the rights of members from the Territory to be here and to vote in full. 
The Government is proposing an alternative form of self-government. The Government has indicated its willingness to grant self-government to this Territory. But, in the correspondence that I have received since I became Minister for the Capital Territory, an overwhelming number of people have indicated their desire to have a choice as to whether they operate under the present system or under some other system of government. The attitude that the Government has adopted is simply to give the people of Canberra the right to say what sort of government they will have. I would imagine that many of the people here will vote for some form of government. Others will vote, no doubt, for the status quo, but that will be their own choice. The status quo itself is a form of self-government. There are a number of other matters to which I could refer but the hour is late. I have endeavoured to answer the basic matters that have been raised by honourable gentlemen opposite. Once again, as I did during my second reading speech, I commend this Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 17 July to 3 August 1976 (private visit during ministerial leave). 14 August to 4 September 1977 (Ministerial visit as Attorney-General). 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of the Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to implement the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal as to the salaries and allowances payable to judges and persons of judicial status. This is effected by clause 5 of the Bill which revises Schedule 3 to the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973 by including the rates of salary, annual allowance and travelling allowance recommended by the Remuneration Tribunal as part of its 1978 Review. Clause 3 adjusts the rate of additional salary payable in certain cases where a judge holds more than one judicial office and fixes the maximum rate of travelling allowance payable in such instances in accordance with the Tribunal's recommendations. In accordance with the recommendations of the Tribunal, the new rates of remuneration are backdated to 1 July 1978. 
Opportunity has also been taken to make an amendment of a technical nature to section 17 of the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973. Section 1 7 enables regulations to be made to prescribe the remuneration payable to certain statutory office holders who had previously been officers of the Australian Public Service or statutory officers. Where a regulation has been made in respect of an officer, the officer is unable to receive a higher rate of remuneration determined by the Remuneration Tribunal with respect to his office, even where a rate of remuneration prescribed by the regulation has not been reviewed in some cases for more than two years. Clause 4 will amend section 17 to allow a Remuneration Tribunal determination to operate in those cases where the rate of remuneration it contains exceeds the rate of remuneration prescribed in the regulation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957, I present the annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
During the debate on these estimates we have heard a lot about the Aboriginal people. I feel entitled to make one comment. The Labor Government of 1972-75 was elected on a policy of recognising Aboriginal land rights. Everybody in this Parliament will recall the massive statements that former Prime Minister Whitlam made in his speech in 1972. By 1975 land rights had not been recognised by the Labor Government. It was this Government in 1976 that recognised land rights for the Aboriginal people. The Labor Government did nothing about it. Let that be known and let that be remembered. 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  made some statements about my Department. He referred to it- it was not an original statement- as a rag-bag department. I do not regard it as a rag-bag department. I regard it as a department which has a very promising future; a future which also reflects the past. I remind honourable members that the Department of Home Affairs was one of the original departments of State. Indeed the site of this capital city was chosen under the auspices of the Minister for Home Affairs. He was a very famous Minister. He set up the Commonwealth Bank. 
The honourable member recalls his name. He was the Minister for Home Affairs way back in 1907 or 1910. Honourable gentlemen opposite should not laugh too much about the Department of Home Affairs. It represents a very historic department that existed until about 1933. 1 am very proud to be the Minister of the Department of Home Affairs on its second appearance. I expect it to continue for a long time. 
The other thing to which the honourable member for Robertson referred was the transfer of the office of Women's Affairs from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to my Department. We know that on the very first day the Director of the Office of Women's Affairs resigned. I was very sorry that that happened. I think that she failed to realise that this was not the end; this was the beginning. The Office of Women's Affairs was being placed in a department where it could have access to the Minister and could start to do things positively. Since the Office was set up it has engaged very actively in a number of projects. Honourable members opposite asked a question last week about what has been done in relation to the report on human relationships. It may surprise them to know that quite a bit has been done in relation to this report because my Department has the co-ordinating function in relation to it. For instance, at the moment it is engaged in drawing up proposals for anti-discrimination legislation. It also is involved in an important project which is assisted very much by the report on human relationships, and that is the development of laws relating to rape and the protection of women in relation to sexual assaults in the Australian Capital Territory. I hope that the efforts of the Office of Women's Affairs in this regard will lead to some major advances in the law either of the Commonwealth or of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Another thing that the Office has organised is the establishment of the National Women's Advisory Council. Honourable members will recall that in, I think, 1976 a working party was set up by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when the Office was in his Department- this revealed great foresight- with the purpose of seeing how this Advisory Council could be established. A report was brought down and in May this year the Government's decision finally to establish the body was announced. Since then the members of that body have been appointed and the National Women's Advisory Council has had its first meeting. I understand that it will have another meeting this week. 
The purpose of that body is to give women a voice in government. It is all right for honourable members on either side of the chamber to talk about the role of women, but women do not have much voice in government. They certainly have not had it in Labor governments in the past. At least this Government has a Cabinet Minister who is a woman, but the voice of women is not often heard in government. So, the National Women's Advisory Council will do exactly, precisely, what has not been done in the past. Under the chairmanship of  Mrs Beryl  Beaurepaire and with the assistance of women who have been chosen from right across the political spectrum in this country, I believe that the cause of women will be furthered. 
One thing of note that will happen in Canberra this week is that a shopfront office will be established in the Office of Women's Affairs in the CML Building in Civic. As I understand it, this is the first time that this will have been done. 
If the honourable member for Kennedy wishes to know something about women's affairs- I am sure that he could learn a lot- he can go to the CML Building, visit the Office of Women's Affairs and find out something about the Government's policies. If he wishes to say something about women's affairs he may do so in that shopfront office. The other purpose of that office is to enable women to come in off the street, as it were, and seek information about where women can be aided in government. Honourable members opposite guffaw when I say that, but women in the community do not have the opportunity to go to places or offices where there is a concentration on matters relating to women 's affairs. In a sense this is an experiment, but in another sense it is a real project by the Government to enable a form of access to information to be obtained by women throughout the nation and women who live in the national capital. If it is a successful experiment I hope that in future years the Government will see fit to set up similar offices around this country, I hope in co-ordination with State governments, so that there will be places to which women can go to have some of the questions that affect them answered. 
A lot was said by the honourable member for Robertson about married women in the work force. It has never been a policy of this Government that married women should stay at home. If anybody thinks otherwise he is quite wrong. There is no discrimination against married women on the part of this Government. Married women who want to go to work are entitled to do so, just as anybody else is. Anybody who suggests otherwise is not telling the truth about the policy of this Government. 
-I am not kidding to the women at all. At the moment there are 1.3 million married women in the work force, in case the honourable member for Hindmarsh does not know. If those 1.3 million married women were taken out of the work force it would not solve anything. People such as the honourable member for Hindmarsh- I am sure that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  would back me up- apparently believe that married women should stay at home. I thought that the honourable member for Hindmarsh did not accept such a proposition, but apparently he thinks that married women should stay at home. I believe that the headlines tomorrow will reflect that fact. I hope that he will be able to explain himself and that he will not say that he was misrepresented. 
Don 't you worry! 
Let us not get on to that subject. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  did not speak tonight; he spoke last week about museums. This is another interesting subject that falls within my portfolio as Minister for Home Affairs. The honourable member for McMillan wants to see a national museum. As I said as recently as last Thursday, I think it was, it is my intention to bring before the Government a proposal to set up a museum of Australia. I do not think that anybody on either side of the chamber would want to disagree with that proposition. However, any government would need to feel that it had the funds in order to entertain such a project. Those of us who have been overseas and have been to, for instance, the museum in Mexico City which reflects the background of the Mexican people- the Aztecs and othersobviously would be impressed by the great need to have in any country a magnificent museum which would establish the background and tradition of the people of that country. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  spoke about the national capital in terms which were familiar from a Queenslander. 
Queenslanders have a tendency- I think the honourable member for Kennedy would agree- to be not always complimentary to our capital city. There was a little of that in his speech tonight. I regret that, because I think that every Australian ought to be proud of the national capital. Quite frankly, anybody on my side of the chamber ought to be doubly proud of it for the very reason that the person who was responsible for setting up our national capital in the form which it now takes- I think honourable members will have to agree- was the late  Sir Robert  Menzies. It was his vision in 1956 and 1957 that saw the need to face up to the fact that this was going to be our national capital and it needed to be developed as such. 
So it was that the Lake project and all the other projects that now make up this beautiful city were brought about. Of course, that cost a great deal of money, but this is an investment of which I believe every Australian ought to be proud. We should not see it as something which should not have occurred or which is overluxurious. The fact is that national buildings cost money. Designs have to be employed which will be attractive to visitors and which will give the vision of a national capital. Those things tend to be more expensive than ordinary shop buildings or ordinary office buildings. The fact is that we now have a city of which all Australians can be proud. The fact is that we are erecting a number of large buildings in this city. The cost of these buildings is reflected in the estimates for this year. The High Court will be finished in 1980, the National Gallery in 1 98 1 , and there are some people who think that some other large building on a hill might be erected before the turn of the century. They might turn out to be optimists; anyhow, we will see. 
The honourable member for Herbert referred to the matter of rates. I say to him that the rates in this city are comparable with the rates in other capital cities. Those honourable members who own homes in Canberra pay rates and know that they are comparable. Certainly it seems that a large amount of money is expended on parks and gardens in Canberra, but the fact is that this city is stretched out. There are literally hun.dereds and hundreds of acres of parks and gardens- magnificent gardens. We all know that they provide for visitors as well as for residents. In other words, the investment here is not just for the people of Canberra; the investment here is for the people of Australia. This needs to be understood when anybody tends to criticise the national capital. 
I turn to the bus system. The bus system incurs a loss of somewhere around $7m. The fact is that bus systems all over the world incur great losses. This is a fact of life. The only public transport system in this city is a bus service. We do not have trains; we do not have trams as Melbourne has; we have only the bus service. Those members of the public who do not wish to use motor cars- it could be said that there is an overuse of motor cars in Canberra- are entitled to have an effective service. We do have a bus service of which people certainly can be proud. It is a good, effective bus service. It runs schedules that meet the convenience of the public, and the cost is no greater than the comparative costs of public transport in the States. 
The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  is troubled about our not pursuing the matter of self-government. The fact is of course that we are pursuing the matter of selfgovernment, but we have decided to be democratic about it. We have decided to allow the people of Canberra to decide whether they want the form of self-government that the honourable member for Canberra would like to thrust on them. 
The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  I apologise to the honourable member for Canberra for saying such a thing. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh need not worry about that. Apparently the honourable member for Fraser wants to thrust a form of self-government on the people of Canberra. For all I know they may be perfectly satisfied with the system that they have at the moment. Quite frankly, I speak up for that system. I do not urge the people of Canberra necessarily to adopt that view in their referendum vote, but it is not a bad system. In fact it is a system which works and works efficiently. It provides for the people of Canberra the sort of budget that is before this Parliament at the moment. The other alternatives are there. If the people of Canberra want a form of local government, so be it. If they want self-government in the State-like form, so be it. The Government is quite content for them to have it. 
The decisions to build things such as the Molonglo sewage treatment works, the Googong Dam and the like were made in an earlier period, as the honourable member for Fraser well knows. Those decisions were made when it was believed that the population of Canberra would grow at approximately 10 per cent per annum. All honourable members know that that has not continued to be the case and that the population of Canberra is now growing at about two per cent or three per cent per annum. The fact is that these services which were determined upon by governments, including the Labor Government in 1972 to 1975, are now found to be in a sense ahead of their times. They are there; they represented bona fide decisions based on projections made at the time. Those projections have not been fulfilled. The people of the Australian Capital Territory- the people of Canberra- have not been forced to pay for these things. The fact is that to a very great degree the Commonwealth Parliament and therefore the taxpayer of Australia has had to meet these costs. So they have not been an excessive burden on the people of Canberra. 
The honourable member referred to a number of other things. He referred to the problems of the computer system. I am sure that he understands that this is an inter-departmental matter, that it takes up the Public Service Board MANDATA system and meets the cost of it, and that that explains why the estimate has increased. In conclusion I thank honourable members for the constructive debate we have had on the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory, the Department of Home Affairs and, I am sure, the Department of the Northern Territory. The latter will shortly go out of existence. I remind honourable members that the residual functions will become part of the Department of Home Affairs. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $525,985,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) On 2 July, I announced that the Commonwealth had agreed to purchase from  Mr Clunies-Ross  the whole of his interests in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, with the exception of his residence and an associated dwelling, at a price of $6.25m, plus stock at valuation. 
The purchase, which included the copra plantation, the village area and all the plant and equipment, was completed on I September. 
The purchase was welcomed, as part of the Government's policies for the advancement of the Territory, by Cocos' first elected Advisory Council, which was established last March, and also by the Cocos Malay Community in a group meeting. The Council had been fully consulted on a number of occasions by both the Administrator and me concerning the Government 's intentions. 
A comprehensive programme for the implementation of the Government's policies for the Territory is under way or in an advanced stage of planning: 
An elected Local Government Council will be established as soon as possible. 
The village area on Home Island will be transferred to the Council acting on behalf of the Community. 
The Council will possess the necessary powers for local government activities in the village area, and will advise the Government on a broad range of matters affecting the community for example education, health and immigration. 
A Cocos Malay Co-operative will be formed to run the copra plantation, to engage in construction and maintenance contracts with the Government and to engage in other business. 
The plantation will be leased to the Co-operative by the Government at nominal rental. 
As the present population may not be adequate to provide the necessary work force, if required, additional residents will be invited to live on the Islands from amongst former Cocos Malay residents, as far as possible from Australia but, if necessary, also from South East Asia. 
A proportion of the profits made by the Co-operative will be made available to the Council to be used for the benefit of the local community generally. 
An improved electricity reticulation system will be provided in 1978-79. 
Sewerage facilities will be provided for Home Island in 1979-80. 
Arrangements have been made for Cocos Malay residents to visit relatives in Australia at a concessional air fare, to assist in improving the attractiveness of the Islands to both present residents and those who might wish to return. 
The Government has agreed that the Cocos (Keeling) Islands should issue its own stamps and obtain the revenue from this source. The Government has in mind that the revenue should be placed in a special fund to be used for the purposes of the local community in consultation with the local Council. 
As I announced recently, in a joint statement with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Australian citizenship will shortly be available to persons who were ordinarily resident on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands immediately before the transfer of those Islands to Australia on 23 November 1955, who are now ordinarily resident in Australia or an external Territory. I expect to introduce legislation for this purpose at an early date. 
Australian currency is now being used and, so far as is known, all tokens which were in circulation have been redeemed by the Clunies-Ross Estate. 
In the interim period of about four months, from 1 September until the Co-operative and the Local Government Council have been established,  Mr Clunies-Ross  has agreed to manage the plantation and other business on behalf of the Cocos Islanders without charge. During this interim period,  Mr Clunies-Ross  will be responsible to the Cocos Malay Interim Advisory Council on matters of policy relating to the conduct of the enterprises. With the approval of the Cocos Malay Interim Advisory Council the average wage for members of the Community workforce has been substantially increased. 
The basis of the Government's policies is Australia's belief that the welfare of the inhabitants of the Islands is paramount. 
The Government has taken fully into account the report of the United Nations Visiting Mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, 1 974. 1 do not believe that there is any difference of substance between the Government's policy and the conclusions and recommendations of that Mission. 
The Government's actions are consistent with its policy of promoting the process of self-determination in the Territory. The United Nations Committee on Decolonisation, in its report of 10 August, welcomed the initiatives taken by the Government and noted with satisfaction the Government's policy of assuring the political, social and economic development of the Cocos people. 
-I noticed in that report something that disturbed me a little; and that was that the vice-chairman of the committee concerned is alleged to have said: 'You must be kidding. They are bad enough on the roads'. Of course we know that the vice-chairman of that committee does not come from this side of the House; he comes from the other side of the House. I think the honourable member for Moreton, the Minister for Defence, would agree that a woman some day could become the Minister for Defence, and that women should be given - 
I do not want to be the cause of starting another rumour. It is true that the Government has a basic policy of equality of opportunity for women. I hope that the Minister for Defence will take up this question. I am sure that we can envisage women in the Defence Force performing tasks such as those of a pilot, as well as others. 
Today, in accordance with the Government's policy on equality of opportunity for women, in Canberra we opened a shopfront facility for the Office of Women's Affairs. Its purpose is to give women an opportunity to have a voice in government. That shopfront will enable women not only from Canberra but also from elsewhere in Australia to go to the office to express their views on policies relating to women that the Government is implementing, to make suggestions and to obtain access to documents that have been published by the Government in relation to matters relating to women. It will provide also an opportunity, which I think is important, for members of the staff of the Office of Women's Affairs to have a relationship with the public so that they do not get out of touch. 
-If this shopfront turns out to be successful, I would hope that in co-ordination and co-operation with the States we might see them opened around the Commonwealth. This office is there and I hope that members of the Parliament will be aware of it, will use it if they wish to do so in order to obtain information and will encourage others to use it. 
I am aware that legislation was introduced into the United Kingdom Parliament to protect children from indecent photography and from the publication of photography of this description. I am also aware of the fact that a Bill of a similar description was introduced into the United States Congress, and I am not sure whether that has yet been passed. I can assure the honourable member that I shall investigate his suggestion. The honourable member will recall that last year when I was Attorney-General the question arose of child pornography in this country and that I met with the Ministers from around Australia for the purpose of preventing pornography of this description from being distributed. So far as I am aware, at a Federal level efforts have been made to prevent this sort of pornography from being imported into the country. As I indicated, I think on the occasion of that meeting, it is not possible, because it is impracticable, to prevent literature or photographs of this description from coming through the mail and then being used as the basis of publications in this country. But I can assure the honourable member that the matter will be given careful attention. 
I remind honourable members also that next year is the International Year of the Child and that the Government has taken a number of initiatives in relation to that. There have been a number of opportunities for Ministers throughout the Commonwealth to meet and to plan efforts for that year. If we are able to produce legislation along these lines, I hope that it will be introduced into this Parliament and that it will have the support of both sides of the House. 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of the Australia Council's activities for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report on Norfolk Island for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-I thank the honourable member for his question. It has been the practice of this Government since it came into office to encourage the support of Australian artists. From the very beginning, when the National Gallery was with the Prime Minister's Department, the Prime Minister was anxious to ensure that as much as possible of the funds available would be spent on supporting Australian artists, that has been the policy. I understand that during 1977- 78, when $3m was available to the National Gallery for the acquisition of works of art, an amount of approximately $690,000 or 23 per cent of the funds was made available for the acquisition of works by Australian artists. In 1978- 79, $3.25m will be made available to the National Gallery. Of that sum, 19 per cent or $625,000 will be expended by the Gallery in acquiring works by Australian artists. 
Those amounts, when looked at alongside the other areas of the acquisitions of the National Gallery, are quite substantial. On the other hand, it would be the policy of the Government and, indeed, my desire as Minister to encourage the National Gallery to spend even more than that proportion on the works of Australian artists. It has to be understood that the National Gallery is acquiring a certain class of work. It is not in the business of just buying works of art by Australian artists in every commercial gallery around Australia. Within the class of work which the Gallery wants to acquire to make up our national collection, it would be my desire as Minister to encourage the National Gallery to spend as much as possible of its $3.25m and what it gets in subsequent years on supporting Australian artists. 
-(Wentworth-Minister for the Capital Territory)- For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Capital Territory Fire Brigade for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not yet made any decisions on the wide range of recommendations in this report. The matter, however, remains under consideration and an appropriate statement will be made as soon as this is possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question on Notice No. 2090  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States (Question No. 2116) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2090 (House of Representatives  Hansard foi  17 October 1978, page number 1972). 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962 I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as under 
Department of the Capital Territory; (a) NCR 8200-Nil; (b) ICL 2903-Information concerning the current account status of Housing Mortgages and Loans. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
Central Office ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as under 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
1 ) Department of the Capital Territory; (a) 2; (b) 2; (c) Nil; (d) Nil. 
Australian Capital Territory Police; (a) 1; (b) 1; (c) Nil; (d) Nil. 
Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Limited; (a) 1; (b) l;(c)Nil;(d)Nil. 
National Capital Development Commission; (a) 1; (b) 2; (c) Nil;(d)1. 
Australian Capital Territory Totalizator Agency Board; (a)7;(b)8;(c)Nil;(d)1. 
ACT Electricity Authority; (a) 1; (b) 3; (c) Nil; (d) 2. 
Department of the Capital Territory; (a) NCR 8,200 $82,708-cost of purchase; (b) ICL 2,903 $132,630-cost of purchase. 
Australian Capital Territory Police; $54,701- cost of purchase. 
Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Limited; $30,600-cost of purchase. 
National Capital Development Commission; (a) ICL system 10-$93,000-cost of purchase; (b) PDP 11/20- $748.35-rental per month. 
Australian Capital Territory Totalizator Agency Board; (a) i. Average cost of purchase of each of 3 systems- $537,920; ii. Average cost of purchase of each of 4 systems-$207,963; (b) $ 1 ,  100-rental per month. 
ACT Electricity Authority; (a) $138,000-cost of purchase; ( b ) $2 1 , 750- per month to lease 2 computers. 
Department of the Capital Territory; (a) NCR 8,200- Accumulate daily transactions for input to various ADP systems; (b) ICL 2,903-To maintain the ACT Commissioner for Housing Mortgage Loan accounting system and to provide control over recoveries and detailed cost analyses. 
Australian Capital Territory Police; Assist in management of Police prosecutions including summons production, court listings and statistics. 
Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Limited; General accounting work and debtors and creditors statements etc. 
National Capital Development Commission; (a) ICL system 10- To maintain financial and other control systems such as personnel records and pay systems; (b) PDP 11/20- To provide a high speed terminal facility to the CSIRO NET system to allow tasks requiring large scale or specialised computing resources to be carried out. 
Australian Capital Territory Totalizator Agency Board; For the processing of bets and associated activities, or the development of new systems for this purpose. 
ACT Electricity Authority; For the monitoring of electrical zone sub-stations, the billing of electricity and stores accounting. 
Department of the Capital Territory; (a) NCR 8200- Nil- All transactions, including cash receipts, affecting the status of any record held within Departmental ADP systems transferred to magnetic disk/tape daily; (b) ICL 2903- Personal details of each mortgagee, current and historical account details and the current status of the account. 
Australian Capital Territory Police; Proforma indictments and letters, data for production, and daily updating of Police court listings. 
Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Limited; Company operating information. 
National Capital Development Commission; (a) ICL system 10- Data relating to financial transactions and personnel records; (b) PDP 1 1 /20- Nil- Date used by this computer is stored in the CSIRO system, and relates to basic planning information. 
Australian Capital Territory Totalizator Agency Board; Data relating to betting transactions, with some personal details being held for customer's telephone betting accounts (e.g. name and address). 
ACT Electricity Authority; (a) Data required to control and monitor the switching of electrical networks; (b) The data base for controlling the billing of electricity consumed within the ACT and the total stores inventory. 
5 ) Department of the Capital Territory; Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows- No. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the period 1 January 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
On behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 I present the report on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930 1 present a statement of receipts and expenditure by the Commonwealth in the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962 1 present the report on the operations of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Consumer Affairs Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory I present the report of the operations of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Council and the Consumer Affairs Bureau for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of the report of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Council and the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Bureau for the year 1977-78, and that the report be printed. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As announced in May last, the Government believes that it should try to develop for Norfolk Island an appropriate form of government involving the Island's own elected representatives, under which the revenue necessary to sustain that government will be raised internally by its own system of law. This Bill provides a framework within which that object can be achieved. It is therefore a landmark in the history of Norfolk Island. It will confer on the Island residents the opportunity to become increasingly involved in their own affairs. It is the Government's intention that this Bill lie on the table until our next sittings. This will provide an opportunity for public discussion and for the Norfolk Island Council to indicate any views that it may have on particular matters. The Government will then consider whether there is a need for any amendments in the light of any representations it receives. 
Under the Bill, wide powers will be exercised by an elected Legislative Assembly and an Executive Council of Norfolk Island comprising the executive members of the Legislative Assembly, who will have ministerial-type responsibilities. The Bill also contains provisions that will ensure the preservation of the Commonwealth's responsibility for Norfolk Island as a Territory of the Commonwealth. As honourable members will recall, the Royal Commission into Matters Relating to Norfolk Island, conducted by  Sir John  Nimmo, presented its report in October 1976. That report, which contained 74 recommendations, has been closely examined and has served as a focal point for much of the public discussion on the future of Norfolk Island, particularly on the Island itself. Although, as a result of this discussion and its own consideration, the Government has departed from the report's recommendations in certain respects, the report remains a valuable document and must be taken into account in any debate on the matter. I am sure both sides of the Parliament and the public are grateful to  Sir John  for the careful and thorough way in which he reported on these matters. 
In determining its policies on the main issues, the Government has had special regard to the attitude of the Norfolk Island Council and residents of the Island, and to the need to take account of the structure of the Island's economy, its historical background and its way of life that has in a number of important respects preserved the tradition of the Pitcairn Islanders. In broad terms, the Bill constitutes the administration of Norfolk Island as a body politic and equips the Territory with responsible legislative and executive machinery to enable it to run its own affairs to the greatest practicable extent. The Government intends to review these arrangements over the next five years and to increase the scope of the Legislative Assembly's powers as may be appropriate. 
Before turning to the more detailed provisions of the Bill, I would inform honourable members that the Government has decided that Australian taxation and Australian social service benefits should not be extended to the Island. Indeed, it is the Government's intention as expressed in clause 18 of this Bill that a law of this Parliament should not extend to Norfolk Island unless a special provision to that effect is made in the law. There is a system of social service benefits applying on the Island at present. Needy people can apply to be placed on a list and, if approved, they become eligible for a weekly payment and for free hospital, medical and pharmaceutical services. The Government does not believe that the services provided need be at the same level, or cover the same range, as mainland social service benefits. However, it is firmly of the view, and I have stressed this from time to time, that any benefits available on the Island should be as of right. The Government will retain the executive and legislative responsibility for social service benefits, but it intends to determine appropriate social service benefits and their levels after consultation with the Norfolk Island Council. The capacity of the Island to pay for these benefits will be of fundamental importance. 
There is a dearth of reliable statistical information on which to assess the capacity of the Island's economy. The Government believes that, in order to make decisions about such matters as the Island's revenue potential and the nature and level of social welfare benefits, it is necessary to have much more information on the economic strengths, weaknesses and potential of the Norfolk Island economy. For these reasons, Professor R. C. Gates, Vice-Chancellor, University of New England, and Professor M. Treadgold, Professor of Economics at that University, have been commissioned to report on the capacity of the Norfolk Island economy. Professor Treadgold visited the Island recently and conducted a census of population and housing and an economic census of business enterprises as part of the economic study. Another matter on which I would touch at this time is that of parliamentary representation. After lengthy discussions with the Norfolk Island Council, the Government has decided that no immediate steps should be taken to provide representation in this Parliament for the residents of the Island, but will review the question at a later date. 
I now turn to the provisions of the BUI. Part I provides for the usual preliminary matters of commencement and interpretation. It also repeals the Norfolk Island Act 1957 and the Norfolk Island Act .1963. Part II deals with matters of administration. The Administrator will still have the responsibility to administer the government of the Territory. At present he does so in accordance with the tenor of his commission and in accordance with such instructions as are given to him by the Minister. Provision is made in this Part for him to act in accordance with such advice as is given to him by the Executive Council in relation to a wide range of matters over which executive members have authority. These are listed at Schedule 2 of the Bill. Certain other matters of particular sensitivity or national importance, over which executive members have authority, are subject to veto by the Administrator. These are listed in Schedule 3. Part II also provides for the establishment of a body politic by the name of the Administration of Norfolk Island. 
An Executive Council of Norfolk Island to advise the Administrator on matters relating to the government of the Territory will be set up under Part III. The Council will consist of the persons for the time being holding executive office. The number and designations of executive offices will be determined by the Legislative Assembly from time to time and members of the Assembly will be appointed to those offices by the Administrator, acting on the advice of the Assembly. The Administrator may terminate such appointment on the advice of the Assembly or, in exceptional circumstances, on his own initiative. It is also provided that the Administrator will be entitled to attend meetings of the Executive Council, shall preside when he is present and shall convene all meetings. Any member of the Legislative Assembly is entitled to attend all meetings of the Council- 
Part IV deals with the legislation-making process. It provides for the continuation of existing laws and for the amendment and repeal of those laws. The Legislative Assembly will have power to make ordinances for the peace, order and good government of the Territory. This power is not limited to those matters in respect of which executive members will have executive authority as specified in Schedules 2 and 3. All ordinances passed by the Assembly will be presented to the Administrator for assent. The Administrator shall assent or withhold assent to all such proposed ordinances which in his opinion make provision for matters listed in Schedules 2 or 3. In all other cases he shall reserve the ordinance for the Governor-General's pleasure. Where an ordinance is in relation to a Schedule 2 matter he will act in accordance with the advice of the Norfolk Island Executive Council. If Schedule 3 matters are involved, he will act in accordance with the instructions of the Minister. 
Where the Administrator reserves an ordinance for the Governor-General's pleasure, the Governor-General shall assent or withhold assent to all or part of the ordinance. The Governor-General may disallow an ordinance assented to by the Administrator within 6 months of assent. Reasons for withholding assent to any ordinance shall be tabled in the Legislative Assembly at the first opportunity. Any proposal to dispose of or charge any public moneys will require a message of the Administrator to the Assembly before it can be considered. 
The Governor-General may, by message of the Administrator, introduce an ordinance into the Assembly. In such cases, where the Assembly does not within 60 days pass the proposed ordinance or amends it in a manner considered unacceptable, the Governor-General may make the ordinance. In cases of urgency or for other special reasons, the Governor-General may make an ordinance without first introducing it to the Assembly. These powers do not extend to Schedule 2 or 3 matters. The Governor-General will have power to make ordinances authorising the expenditure of the public moneys of the Territory in cases of urgency. This is to deal with a special case, for instance where the Assembly holds up a Budget and there are no funds available to carry on a public service. Where the Governor-General exercises his powers as I have just described, the ordinance shall be laid before each House of Parliament within 15 sitting days. If it is not so laid it shall be void and of no effect. Either House may within 15 sitting days disallow all or part of such an ordinance. Ordinances made by the Governor-General will prevail over an ordinance made by the Assembly where they are in direct conflict but in other cases will operate concurrently. 
Part V of the Bill deals with the Legislative Assembly. At present there is a Norfolk Island Council of eight elected members which may consider and tender advice to the Administrator concerning any matters affecting the peace, order and good government of the Territory. This Council will be abolished and replaced by a Legislative Assembly of the Territory consisting of nine elected members, with the wide powers that I have described earlier. Provisions for qualifications for election, filling of casual vacancies, dates for elections, meetings, procedures, election of a President and Deputy President, minutes of proceedings and the making of standing rules and orders are included in this Part. 
Under Part VI, which deals with finance, it is provided that there shall be a Public Account of Norfolk Island consisting of all public moneys of the Territory, available for the purposes of the government of the Territory. This will preserve the existing financial arrangements for public moneys. Receipt, expenditure and control of public moneys, including investment, shall be as provided for by ordinance. The Minister for Finance will be empowered to lend money to the Administration or a Territory authority. The Treasurer will be empowered to approve borrowings from other sources and to guarantee repayments by the Administration of such borrowings. Part VII provides for the continuation of the judicial system which was set out in the Norfolk Island Act 1957. Reference in that Act to appeals to the High Court has been omitted because such appeals now lie to the Federal Court of Australia under the provisions of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976. 
Part VIII ensures the continuation of present laws regarding employment and appointment of officers, grants of land and audit by the AuditorGeneral, and provides for the regulation-making powers of the Governor-General. The Part also provides that the remuneration payable to members of the Legislative Assembly and the Executive Council may be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. There are transitional provisions under Part IX for the first general election of the Assembly, existing appointments of Administrator, Acting Administrator and Deputy Administrator, certain proposed ordinances and regulations, laying of ordinances before Parliament, the validity of existing ordinances, preservation of existing contracts and the transfer to the administration of the Public Account of Norfolk Island. 
I take this opportunity to place on record my appreciation of the work done by the members of the present Norfolk Island Council who took up office in July of this year, and those of the previous Council, towards the preparation of suitable legislation for the future government of Norfolk Island. I also wish to express my confidence in the political and economic future of the Territory of Norfolk Island. The process of responsible government which will be set in train by this Bill is a very important step forward for the Territory in managing its own affairs. 
As will be clear to honourable members, the success of the arrangements now proposed will depend greatly on the maintenance of close cooperation between the Commonwealth Government and the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. On many important matters, of which financial and Public Service arrangements are leading examples, the only workable method of proceeding is by way of consensus. Thus, it is intended that in practice there will be only one fiscus and one Public Service to serve the needs of the Administration as a whole. I am sure, from my discussions with members of the Norfolk Island Council and residents, that the necessary spirit of co-operation will prevail and be reinforced over the years. It is therefore with confidence that I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Levy Bill 1978, the Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Bill 1978 and the Dried Fruits Export Charges Amendment Bill 1978 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the four Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Territory of Christmas Island for the period 1 January 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960, 1 present the report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Capital Development Commission has informed me that the Commission, in conjunction with the Department of the Capital Territory, published a discussion paper and brochure canvassing possible policy guidelines for urban change. The documents, which were produced after consultation with a wide range of government, community and business organizations were published to stimulate public discussion on broad guidelines rather than specific land use changes and to enable public reaction to be gauged. The pamphlet was distributed to over 20,000 inner Canberra households. Members of the public were invited to write or telephone Commission or Departmental officers to register their comments or to discuss any of the issues raised in the publications. Forty-four responses were received. 
In December 1976 a further discussion paper, entitled  Policies for Urban Change,  was published. Members of the public and interested organizations were invited over a period of three months to comment on four suggested alternative policies for more intensive use of existing residential leases and for commercial purposes. The policy proposals received extensive coverage in the media. Commission officers were available to discuss the alternative policies at exhibitions arranged at the major shopping centres as well as at the Commission offices. 
Eighty-six written responses. 
The results indicated that there was not strong public support for change and that the majority of people and organizations who were sufficiently interested to respond opposed any significant change to the existing character and amenity of residential areas. 
Department of Social Security Office, Why alla: Working Conditions  (Question No. 2752) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2), (3) and (4) I am advised by the National Capital Development Commission that various surveys and investigations of the structural condition, internal layout and security of the present Parliament House have been carried out by the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of Construction in the past The results of the most recent investigations of accommodation in the present building and alterations to improve security will now need to be reviewed in the light of the Government's decision to proceed with the design and construction of a new Parliament House and to restrain expenditure of funds on the present building. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by the National Capital Development Commission that: 
As at June 1978 the estimated cost of the new High Court Building was $33.6m. The proposed completion date is 30 April 1980. 
Yes. However, it was recognised from the outset that the design details would have to be progressively developed throughout the construction period, particularly in relation to the internal layout of the building and the internal finishes. Accordingly, the contract for the construction of the building contains provisional sums for those components not fully documented when tenders were called. These provisional sums are adjusted progressively as the details are finalised and the contract price varies accordingly. Increases have also occurred for other reasons, the most significant being for delays outside the contractor's control (such as weather conditions, industrial disputes, unexpected underground conditions) and for rise and fall provisions in the contract which take account of variations to industrial awards and conditions. 
No. 
The development of the design has called for the closest collaboration between the architects, the builder, the National Capital Development Commission and the user, represented principally by the Chief Justice and the Attorney-General's Department A great deal of reliance has been placed on the user in relation to the functional requirements for the High Court, and in this respect the contribution and continuing interest of the Chief Justice has been of outstanding value. The most significant adjustments to the internal design of the High Court Building have been: 
Glazing, window cleaning and sun control ($1,000,000) to incorporate security requirements and acoustic treatment for functional purposes. 
Provision of partitions to office areas ($600,000) because the initial design concept envisaged open plan office arrangement which subsequently has been demonstrated to be not functional. 
Wall linings, floor coverings, ceilings ($650,000) in lieu of original concept which envisaged that the finish on internal walls would be primarily concrete; as the operations of the courts became more clearly understood by the designers it was agreed that the original concrete wall finishes would not produce a satisfactory internal environment. The courts and judge chambers will now be finished with timber panelling along traditional lines. 
(a) The National Capital Development Commission. 
The Project Architect evaluates all design proposals taking into account architectural efficiency and cost and then makes recommendations to the National Capital Development Commission. 
The National Capital Development Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) ( a) and ( b) under no circumstances. 
Not applicable. 
(a) Nil; (b) and (c) Not applicable. 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) I am informed by my Department that no Departmental staff are authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
None of my Ministerial staff are authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
(a) nil, (b) nil and (c) nil. 
nil. 
Victorian Nurse Registration: Acceptance in New South Wales (Question No. 2947) 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force for the year ended 30 June 1 978. This report was distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Postal Services Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I suppose this is not the appropriate time to answer my friend, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  in relation to Christmas Island and Norfolk Island, but I will give him some information in answer to the questions that he raised. He mentioned the fact that the Government's policy includes the provision of revenue to the community on Cocos Island from philatelic sales and that it is hoped that this service will be taken over, in effect, for the benefit of the community later this year. I hope that will occur no later than August of this year. It will mean in due course, assuming that the amount of revenue received is similar to that received in Norfolk Island and Christmas Island, that at least $100,000 to $200,000 will be added to the revenue of Cocos Island. That money will be for the benefit of the Cocos-Malay community. It not only will be revenue for their benefit but also will provide employment for some of the Cocos-Malay community. So, in terms of both employment and revenue, the measure which is being debated in this House tonight is of significant benefit to Cocos Island. 
May I say, for the purpose of informing other honourable members as well as my friend the honourable member for Melbourne, that I visited Cocos Island two or three weeks ago. The purpose of my visit was to execute a lease to the co-operative that has been established on the island for the purpose of managing the copra plantation. That lease was executed for a period of 10 years, with rights of renewal up to 20 years, at what might be called, perhaps, a coconut rental rather than a peppercorn rental- a rental of $1 a year. The purpose of that is to enable the community to take over, in effect, the management of its own economy. It will in future run the copra plantation that previously was run by the Clunies Ross Estate. It now has its own manager,  Mr Hughes.  He was chosen after a number of the Interim Advisory Council members interviewed several applicants in Australia last year.  Mr Hughes  is now living there and he has set about the task of managing the co-operative under, of course, its control. There are approximately 130 members of the co-operative, and that makes up in effect the working community on Home Island where the Cocos-Malay people live. 
While I was there I also left with them a draft ordinance to establish a council. That council will have transferred to it, for the benefit of the community, most of Home Island; that is to say, all of Home Island except that which is remaining for the Clunies Ross family and that which is being leased to the co-operative, namely, that which consists of the area on which the co-operative coconut factory is located. There will be transferred to the community for its own benefit, through its local council, all those areas in which its members live, the areas where they have their playing fields, and the areas where their cemeteries are located- in other words, what they regard as their home. Those areas will be transferred, of course, without cost, and will be held upon trust for the community. 
The council will be established under this ordinance. It will be a council consisting of seven members and, broadly speaking, it will have responsibility for running what is called the kampong area or the community area. It will also have the responsibility of advising the Minister from dme to time on matters relating to Cocos Island. It will be an advisory council but it will have executive and legislative responsibilities. For instance, it will be able to pass by-laws. After the ordinance has been translated into Malay and the Malay people have considered it and looked at it, it will come back to me. I hope that it will go through the Executive Council within at least six weeks, if not earlier. That will then mean that a council will be established. It will pick up the existing members of the Interim Advisory Council, and there will be a provision that there has to be an election, I think, within a period of six to twelve weeks. So there will be fresh elections and a fresh council of seven which then will have the task of governing the community. 
It will not necessitate legislation here. It will involve an ordinance under the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act but, when it is put into law it will represent something that has been negotiated with the council itself. There is a person over there who speaks Malay and can translate the measure into the Malay language. We have recently employed a person to go there and be available to the Administrator and to the council. This person has a clear capacity for interpretation. 
-Well, I might take the honourable member for Melbourne over there and he may be able to help me. In addition, I am sure that honourable members will be interested to know that under the arrangements both health and education will remain with the Australian Government. However, needless to say, on both these matters there will be close consultation with the council when it is elected. Recently a Malay-speaking nurse was employed by the Government and she is to be basically located on Home Island where she will be available to serve the community. The doctor, of course, will be located, as he always has been, on West Island but he is available to go by launch across the lagoon, a distance of about five miles, and he is available for emergencies and the like. Needless to say, there is the other emergency which involves taking people out. Honourable members may have read that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  took a seriously ill young child out of Cocos last weekend. I believe that the CocosMalay nurse must have been with that child when she was taken out. 
The other thing that has happened recently is that we have sent to Australia nine young people- very fine young Cocos-Malay studentswho have been working in the school on Home Island. They have been working with the teacher, who comes out of the Western Australian education system, and seem to be young people who could either be developed to be of greater use as teachers or could become involved in what we might call the Public Service of Cocos in the future or could do clerical work for the cooperative. These young people will receive about six months training at Mount Lawler College in Western Australia. It is a composite course to improve their capacity to speak English and thencapacities in various other respects, such as in teaching. I am also hoping that some of them will be able to learn such skills as typing so that they will be able to take up clerical duties. This is a significant step because it means that we are, as it were, providing a base for the future Public Service, the future clerical administration of the Cocos community, the local government council and the co-operative. 
In addition, the Government has appointed another teacher to the Home Island school. That teacher does have a smattering of the Malay language and hopefully will pick up more while she is there and be able to improve her capacity to communicate. There now will be two full time teachers instead of only one on Home Island and we are anxious that there be some sort of interchange between the two schools. I had considered the integration of the two schools, that is, the West Island school attended by the children of the Australian administration staff and the Home Island school where the Cocos children go. However, it seemed to me not desirable for a number of reasons, one of which of course was the distance and the difficulties associated with travel on a daily basis across the lagoon. Nevertheless, efforts will be made to have joint activity, to get some sort of intercommunication not only at a school level but also at a community level between those who are living on Home Island and the Australians living on West Island. Members will know that a quarantine station has been scheduled for West Island, in the Cocos group. Construction of that quarantine station is about to commence, if it has not already commenced. It is scheduled to be completed in 1 98 1 . 
If I may explain this to honourable members in the short time I have left, the co-operative, first of all, is conducting the plantation. That plantation involves a lot of manual labour, as one can imagine. A copra plantation means a copra economy, which of course will not permit wages at the levels that are paid in Australia. The local people are running it themselves and are providing then own labour. The profits go into the cooperative's account from which it pays wages. Then there is a dividend system for paying any profits, which are distributed amongst members of the co-operative. If there are any further amounts they would be paid to the local government council to assist in any community development. That is one aspect of their work. 
In another sense, an important part of the cooperative's activity is to enter into contracts with the Australian Government to undertake works of maintenance, building work and the like in the Cocos group. Those contracts are worked out at Australian labour rates. They calculate what it would cost at Australian labour rates and therefore they get the benefit into the co-operative of the contract price at that rate. They might be building houses or assisting with the construction of the quarantine station, or they might be doing work to maintain the airport. However, those levels of wage rates result in them getting proportionately a much larger amount than they would receive per man or per woman from the co-operative. They are thereby able to pay themselves a much higher rate of wages than they would pay if all they had was their copra plantation. 
I thought I would take the opportunity to give some report to honourable members about what is happening on Cocos Island as the opportunity is not often available to me to have a Bill before the House on such a matter. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 1794 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 335 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
CENTRAL OFFICE 
(a),(b),(c),(d)-Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) At the Commonwealth level, my Depanment chairs an Interdepartmental Working Group of Commonwealth departments to consider the report's recommendations. This Group has met on two occasions. As responsibility for implementing many pans of the report rests with the State and Territory Governments, the Prime Minister has written to State Premiers and the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory seeking their views. 
For those recommendations which involve action by the Commonwealth, the Working Group has sought advice from Departments, as to which have been implemented and which are now under consideration or are likely to be considered in the near future. This information is still being compiled. A statement on the government's consideration of the report will be made at an appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Depanment that: 
The Building Standards Committee, which is responsible for the preparation of the ACT building code, sought the advice of the Capital Territory Health Commission in 1976 on the use of sprayed asbestos in buildings. The Health Commission advised there was no evidence to suggest that the occupants of buildings were at risk from asbestos-caused disease. However, there was a distinct hazard to installers unless proper care was taken to ensure that they did not inhale excessive quantities of asbestos dust. 
Accordingly, to protect workmen in the ACT, standards for the spraying, handling and use of asbestos material were adopted by the Depanment of the Capital Territory under the Scaffolding and Lifts Ordinance. Advice of this was published in the 1976-77 Annual Report of the Budding Standards Committee. An amendment to the Building Manual published in July 1978 included an advisory note to remind builders that there were requirements for the installation of asbestos type materials under the Scaffolding and Lifts Ordinance. 
Press announcements by the Capital Territory Health Commission were made in November 1978 in response to questions concerning the use of asbestos insulating material in the Territory. Subsequently, over ISO samples of insulating materials were examined on request and of these 6 were found to contain asbestos. Arrangements are in hand to examine the situations from which the 6 samples containing asbestos have been taken. 
Asbestos materials have been used throughout Australia as an insulating material and for fire protection. 
and (4) See answer to ( 1 ). 
Two public buddings are known to have asbestos sprayed onto the underside of the metal roof to control condensation and to reduce the drumming noise created by rain. In both cases there is a false ceding between the roof and the occupied zones of the buddings. Both buildings have been checked by the Capital Territory Health Commission and do not present a hazard to the occupants. The National Capital Development Commission has never used asbestos insulation in houses constructed by it and no longer uses sprayed asbestos in buddings. The situation with respect to buildings constructed privately is not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that there are no apprentices employed by my Department or any bodies or statutory authorities within my portfolio responsibilities. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
The Department of the Capital Territory and the ACT Electricity Authority currently employ apprentices. The Commonwealth Brickworks has in previous years employed apprentices. 
(a) The Department, including the ACT Police Section- 
1978-20 
1977-17 
1976-15 
1975-24 
1974-27 
1973-24. 
Relevant bodies- Commonwealth Brickworks 1973-1. 
Statutory authorities- ACT Electricity Authority- 
1978-15 
1977-12 
1976-11 
1975-10 
1974-5 
1973-8. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for Productivity in answer to Question No. 1794, House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 3351. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
to (4) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the proceeds from commercialisation of activities conducted under the National Fitness Act to be paid into the National Fitness Trust Fund. In particular, the Bill will enable proceeds from the commercialisation of the national 'Life. Be in it' program to be paid into that fund. The opportunity has also been taken to revise sections 4 and 5 of the principal Act to bring them into line with current drafting practice for trust accounts, and also to make some formal drafting amendments. 
Honourable members will recall that on 9 September 1977 Commonwealth, State and Territory Ministers responsible for recreation agreed to co-operate in an Australia- wide active recreation program based on the successful 'Life. Be in it' program which had been launched in Victoria with Commonwealth assistance in 1975. As part of this agreement, the Commonwealth Government undertook to allocate $600,000 a year during the three-year period ending on 30 June 1980. The Commonwealth agreed to be responsible for funding the national aspects of the program. These included general co-ordination of the publicity campaign, the negotiation of media coverage, the monitoring and evaluation of the effect of the program and the overall development of the program on a national basis. The States and Territories were to be responsible for co-ordinating local programs and resources, arranging public relations activities, conducting local 'Life. Be in it' events and liaising with State and local recreation and sporting bodies. 
The 'Life. Be in it' philosophy is to encourage Australians to become more active. The campaign stresses the enjoyment and benefit to be gained from recreation. The long term objectives of the campaign are to change Australia's attitudes and behaviour towards sport, fitness and recreation. The difference between 'Life. Be in it' and previous campaigns aimed at improving community fitness levels is that 'Life. Be in it' replaces the direct 'fitness' approach with an indirect 'activity' approach. The message of'Life. Be in it' is that recreation activity can be shared by all age groups and that recreation is fun. The Life. Be in it' message is being carried in television advertisements, on calendars and tshirts, and through a wide range of other promotional material. Public demand for such items as posters, stickers, calendars, badges, balloons, leaflets and other promotional material is exceptionally high. 
The launching of the 'Life. Be in it' program has provided the opportunity for the Government to co-operate closely with commercial organisations which produce 'Life. Be in it' products under licence. Assistance from the private sector has taken three forms: A high level of support from the mass media, particularly the television industry; sponsorship of promotional 
Life. Be in it' items; and product licensing arrangements under which manufacturers produced approved material and paid a royalty for the privilege. 
It is the extent and success of the operations in the licensing field which have led to a need to introduce this Bill amending the National Fitness Act 1941. Although the income received from royalties is a welcome boost for the 'Life. Be in it' program, it is recognised that commercialisation in any form is subservient to the aims and objectives of the campaign. A series of guidelines for sponsorship and product licensing have been developed to ensure that this attitude is retained. 
This Bill enables proceeds from the commercial opportunities provided by the 'Life. Be in it' program to be returned to the Commonwealth through the National Fitness Trust Fund. I commend the Bill for the consideration of honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Government policies on the commemoration of historic events and famous persons are currently under review. I do not think that it would be appropriate, therefore, for me to take the action suggested by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
1 ) Sales tax paid or payable in respect of sales of sporting goods is not recorded separately. However, based on the information available, it is estimated that the amount payable in respect of sales of equipment for gymnastics, athletics, sport and outdoor games (including arms and ammunition but excluding boats, bicycles and other sporting or recreational vehicles), is about $30m per annum. However, the only income tax received from totalisator administrations comes from tax imposed on grants made by the totalisator administrations to the racing clubs. This would be included in the total amount at about $800,000 payable in respect of the 1975-76 income year by non-profit organisations classified as 'entertainment, sport and recreation', many of which are not racing clubs. 
2 ) During its present term of office the Government has made the following contributions to sport: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am hoping to submit recommendations to the Government shortly on the principal matters raised in the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections. One of these relates to the establishment of a National Aviation Museum. 
Point Cook has been mentioned as a possible site for such a museum but, as the Government has not taken a decision on its establishment, it would be premature to view favourably any particular site. 
The Australian War Memorial and the Department of Defence hold a considerable number of aircraft of historical interest. Recently an ex-RAAF Australian-built Mosquito aircraft was purchased by the Australian War Memorial at public auction. The purchase of this aircraft by the War Memorial will guarantee its preservation and after extensive restoration it will be available for display. Special consideration is given to the needs of aviation museums around Australia when the Commonwealth is disposing of aircraft surplus to its requirements. There are also controls on the export of aircraft and the advice of my Department is sought on applications for the export of historical aircraft. It would not be appropriate for me however, to initiate an acquisition program for aircraft in advance of a Government decision in respect of a National Aviation Museum. 
Use of Asbestos in Schools  (Question No. 2987) 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Film Commission Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Australian Film Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
in reply- This is a significant occasion for me because it is the first time I have spoken in this House since I assumed responsibility for sport. May I say with some trepidation that I follow such redoubtable sportsmen as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  However, some day we may be able to take them on. This debate actually relates to the 'Life. Be in it' campaign. Most of what honourable members have said about the general field of sport has been very helpful. I would like to thank honourable members for the very creative contributions they have made. One of the successes of recreation policy in Australia has been the 'Life. Be in it' campaign. There is no question about that. 
Unfortunately some honourable members think that more money should have been poured into this campaign. According to the latest survey, it is one of the most penetrating programs that has ever been put on television. For instance, in Victoria 94.6 per cent of people recognised it; in Western Australia 92.8 per cent of people recognised it, and so on. The national recognition rate was 87.8 per cent. That, of course, would gladden the heart of any advertiser. Other honourable members raised the question of whether the theme of the campaign was getting through to the public. I think one honourable member opposite raised that point. One of the questions asked in the survey was: 'To the best of your knowledge, what do you think is the main purpose of "Life. Be in it"?'. The answers nationally were: Exercise, 20 per cent; health, 18 per cent; outdoor activities, 17.3 per cent; fitness, 1 6.8 per cent; to be active, 1 3.9 per cent; not to sit at home, 12.8 per cent. When we take into account that only 12.8 per cent said 'Not to sit at home' and the other answers related to leisure, recreation and activity, it is pretty clear that the 'Life. Be in it' campaign has become very successful. 
That is perception. The honourable member for Scullin does not know whether there has been activation. We cannot activate someone through a television screen. All we can do is put the program on television and hope that the perception will hit home and will have an effect- activity. Let us not exaggerate in this field. Many of us who are sporting enthusiasts are very ready- I might be one of them; honourable members do not know- to be judgmental about people. I am not sure that people are any less active in sport than they were 20 years ago. In fact many families- let us not be judgmental- are active, go out together and engage in recreational activities. Our community generally is a recreational community, particularly our young families. Let us not be judgmental about the sporting activity of our community. Much of what was said related to what government did what. I do not want to get into a debate on it but I am prepared to take on honourable members outside this House in a verbal joust about that aspect. Recently the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said that this Government had done nothing for sport. To put it all together, this Government has put more money into sport than any previous government, and I am prepared to quote the figures and provide them to honourable members. 
It is not nonsense at all. One only has to take into account the $10m that is going into the Commonwealth Games, the $750,000 that is going into an international hockey stadium in Western Australia, and the $800,000 that is going into the Olympic Games. That is more money than any government has ever put into the Olympic Games, so let us not get into that area. What we are concerned about, and I think the honourable member for Grayndler attempted to strike this note towards the end of his speech, is what we do in the future. 
One thing that has struck me since I became the Minister responsible for this area is the need to develop what one might call a national sports policy. That policy should cover two areas. The first, as with the arts, is the pursuit of excellence. That is not necessarily the most important segment but it is one. The other area relates to the realisation that people at the grass roots ought to be encouraged to engage in recreational and sporting activity. Those ought to be the two arms of a sporting policy. Let us not think that the men and women who sit on the Hill are not engaged in recreation. One might look from the centre of the pitch and say: 'Why don't they get out here and have a game?' For all we know, those people may be engaged in heavy physical activity in their work. In other words, the spectator too may be engaged in recreation. So far as a national sports policy is concerned, it has two arms- the pursuit of excellence and the need to engage the mass of the community in sport. Funding was mentioned, and in that respect I ask the honourable member for Grayndler to have a yarn with some of his colleagues in New South Wales. If he can get the New South Wales Government to agree, we will be able to have a national sports lottery. The Victorian Government seems to be in favour of it, and if the two most populous States are in favour of such a lottery then the indications are that we should be able to raise between $20m and $30m a year for sporting activities. If the honourable member will do that, he may be doing us a service, because New South Wales is the State which may in the end hold it up. 
A national sports policy needs to be developed so that each level of government understands what its role is. I do not think that it is the role of national government to provide tennis courts in a local municipality. It may be that it is the role of the national government to assist in providing places of international standard for recreation and sporting activity. However, there needs to be some idea of the role of each level of government. In relation to funding, let me give the House an example. In 1975-76 the Ku-ring-gai municipality received a grant of $50,000 from the Federal Government. In this current year it has received a grant of $454,000 from Federal funds. This is the result of the change in the Government's policy on funding local government. Funds ought to be provided at a local government level which could be spent on sporting facilities if the local council wished to do that. When looking at the question of funding, let us understand that this Government through its federalism policy has put more funds than ever before into the hands of State and local governments, which if they wish to can use those funds for the purpose of sporting facilities. Honourable members opposite know that that is the truth, although they keep on denying it. They want the Federal Government to be involved in every little area of life. There are levels of government and levels of activity where specific local and State governments ought to be involved, and those areas of policy ought to be determined. I have already suggested that one area of a national sports policy relates to the provision of international facilities, and I have instanced the hockey stadium in Western Australia. We need a policy which will develop coaching programs. We need to see whether some programs can be developed through colleges of advanced education. For instance, it would be a good thing if a program related to tennis could be attached to a college somewhere in the country which would enable our best young players to come and do a course under a leading tennis coach. 
-I am not talking about Wesley College, and the honourable member knows that. If he will just listen and keep his mind open for a while he will understand what I am talking about. I have made a suggestion that the honourable member for Grayndler thinks is very good. If programs dealing with the various sports could be attached to colleges of advanced education, I think it would be a very good idea. Another thing that we need in Australia at a national level is a program for national games. We do not have national games here, and I believe that it is time we did. Some consideration ought to be given to that. Another area that one of the speakers said ought to be brought into a national sports policy relates to the question of an inventory and some form of rationalisation of facilities. There are facilities available in the community that are not used and those facilities could be made available to the sorts of people the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  talked about, that is, the general community. Those facilities ought to be made available so that sport can be encouraged at that level. 
I have instanced in what I have said those areas where, through a national sports policy, one can promote sport throughout the country. I believe that unless we are prepared to sit down and work that out at a government level we are not really going to get anywhere. As I said a moment ago, one thing that has struck me since I became the Minister responsible for sport is the need to do just that. We ought not to be backbiting about who has done what in the past and who is doing what at present. We ought to be moving into the future with a policy of foresight, one that will lead to increasing the health of the young people of this nation. May I say that the areas of education and sport are ones of equal importance. At a State level we need to introduce through the education system the idea that sport is not just something that one does on a wet afternoon in the school hall. Sport is something that ought to be encouraged. It ought to be well nigh compulsory in every school in this country. I hope that the State governments, through a national sports policy, will regard that as being of great significance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply- I will endeavour to answer those questions in writing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-On 22 February 1979 1 provided an answer to the above Question on Notice  (Hansard  22 February page 335). I am now informed that an error occurred in the preparation of the reply and the following wording should be substituted for the existing foot note (b) to paragraph 2. 
first of four annual payments to the Queensland Government of a Slum interest free non-repayable grant for the purpose of assisting with the provision of sporting facilities and athletes/officials accommodation in connection with the 1 982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have sought advice from the National Library of Australia and the Film Australia Branch of the Australian Film Commission on these matters and they have provided the following information: 
During the silent era-that is, prior to 1930-about 300 feature films were produced in Australia. Fifty-three of these survive today, in whole or in part, in the National Film Archive of the National Library of Australia. In most cases, the preservation of the film is a result of searches or 'detective work' carried out by Library staff. The 2 SO lost films include many of undoubted historical or artistic significance but it would be misleading to quantify them as a group. Even poorly made silent films can today have historical significance and may merit preservation. 
Of approximately 250 Australian features made since 1930, only 10, mostly minor productions, are now considered lost. Those films that are not yet preserved in the National Film Archive are being systematically sought for acquisition; these are mostly recent films. 
The Film Australia Branch, Australian Film Commission, does not have a film archive in the true sense of the word. Like other production houses Film Australia holds the original negative and master materials of its own productions. The only exception to this concerns productions shot in 35mm black and white nitrate based negative prior to 1956-57. Nitrate based negative is highly inflammable and can be dangerous. In the mid 1960s Film Australia carried out an exercise of transferring master 35mm nitrate negative productions onto duplicate safety based negatives. This was a safety exercise. The nitrate based original negatives of productions so treated were handed over to the National Library for storage. In general, the preservation of Australian feature films remains the responsibility of the National Library of Australia. 

 Those Who Love and  Two Minutes Silence  are presently considered to be lost feature films. 
The National Library has sought to increase general awareness of film preservation matters within the film industry and the community generally and has successfully earned the co-operation of private individuals and film and television organisations in locating and acquiring films for preservation. The approach has been a productive one, almost tripling the size of the National Film Archive over the last 5 years, and will continue to be developed. 
In recent years some previously 'lost' films, restored by the National Film Archive, have won new attention at Australia's major film festivals. A working parry has been examining the future development needs of the National 
Film Archive. A special vault, designed to international standards, for the storage of early nitrate film is under construction. 
Previous efforts by the National Library to circulate likely sources of lost films have not proved profitable. Many 'lost' films have, however, been recovered as a result of personal approaches and reassurances by the Library's film staff that the 'lost' film could be properly transferred to the National Film Archive. A publication is also being prepared which will list lost Australian feature films and which it is hoped will increase public consciousness of the value of our film heritage. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Film and Television School Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Australian Film and Television School for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 2638 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and also to questions No. 3065 and No. 3082 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 130). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) Nil. 
Royal Commission on Human Relationships (Question No. 3216) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
1 ) Information relating to the voyage has been traced in the records of the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Defence, Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Australian War Memorial. A substantial proportion of this material is available for public inspection in the Australian Archives. Restrictions are chiefly directed towards the names of individuals in order to ensure an adequate protection of privacy. 
Advice has been received from the appropriate British authorities that in the United Kingdom the list of passengers is to remain closed for fifty years. 
This matter was raised some years ago. As the information exists in both British and Australian records, agreement on policy was desirable and after consultation with the British authorities it was agreed that the names of individuals should be withheld. This was done out of regard for the privacy of those who hitherto had not made public their association with this episode. It seems appropriate that the 
Australian Government should continue to respect the privacy of these persons, the majority of whom are presumably still living in this country. 
The previous  speaker  in the debate on the termination of pregnancy, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  made the comment that we are here to decide between right and wrong. The problem before us is a very complex one and one which does not easily lend itself to lines being drawn, as I shall indicate. This debate really is not a debate about who is in favour of abortion and who is not. I have listened to a number of honourable members address this chamber and so far all of them seem to be against abortion. But I do not think that this is really a debate about that issue. Each one of us is asked to exercise a vote of conscience. I am not too sure what that means because I hope that each of us, as legislators, exercises his conscience in everything that he does. However, I hope that we will exercise our vote on this issue as legislators with a conscience. We should bear in mind all the time that the function of this Parliament is to legislate and not to pass motions in relation to matters about which we may have little or no power. We are to be wise legislators and, I hope, legislators with a conscience. 
In relation to the matters that have been raised in this debate, I hope that every one of us has a deep belief in the sanctity of life. Clearly, we cannot logically claim that there is no life in a foetus; obviously there is. For instance, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would not be with us if, as a foetus, his life had been terminated. We would then have been deprived of his presence. In other words, if we talk about the right of the foetus or the right to life, logically we cannot argue that there is no life in a foetus because there is life in a foetus and the foetus ought to be allowed to live if that is conceivably- if I may use that term- possible. Then again, the rights of women are involved. I hope that none of us would readily say that the rights of women should not be taken into account. Obviously one does. A woman is very personally involved. I would hope every one of us would take that into account. 
One hears stories that women more or less rush in to a surgery, hop up on the table and that is the end of it. I think those of us who know of women or young girls who might have wanted to lose a child will understand the trauma of those occasions. We know they are not just simple occasions and that women do not do the sort of thing that some people imagine to be done on the spur of the moment. As I have said, an abortion is a traumatic experience. I would think it is an experience that affects those who are uneducated and inarticulate more than it affects, say, the more educated and wealthier members of the community. That is just an observation which I believe to be correct. 
I think the social implications are relevant. For instance, honourable members would know that there has been a decline in the number of babies available for adoption. I believe that every one of us ought to be concerned about young childless couples who would like to adopt a child. There is no doubt that an excessive number of abortions has the effect of depriving those young couples of children. I believe that everyone of us would be rationally attracted to these propositions; none of us would really deny their validity. 
The first question I find difficult to answer is where to draw the line. I do not think that any member of this House wants abortion in a way that is unprincipled, and I use the word 'unprincipled' in the sense that one would not want to draw a line somewhere. Obviously the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  would draw it at the life of the mother. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  also would draw the line at this point. But the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  would draw the line at protection of life, rape, incest and disease expected to result in the deformity of the child. The Menhennitt ruling that was adopted by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  goes even further. The South Australian legislation goes a little further still. The fact is that a different line is being drawn in each of these combinations of principles and attitudes. I hope that everyone who in effect holds views about where to draw the line is a man or woman of conscience. 
This place does not have a woman member but that does not mean that we do not discuss matters relating to women. I do not agree with the argument on this matter that I think was put by the honourable member for Hindmarsh and others. We must take into account the effect of this motion on women. Although we are people of principle, we draw the line at different places. I ask honourable members to bear that in mind because we all hold bona fide beliefs yet have different attitudes. The fact is that different bona fide attitudes are held in different States. The attitude in New South Wales is possibly a little wider than that held in Victoria because of the Levine judgment. The attitude in South Australia is probably wider than that in New South Wales because of that State's abortion laws. The result is, of course, that the line has been drawn at different places. 
Therefore, I want to say at the beginning, and almost at the end, of my remarks that it is a matter first of all of drawing the line so that one can make a judgment as to what is proper and what is not proper. Wherever we draw it will not be a matter of common acceptance. Yet different lines will be drawn by different men and women of principle. For example, the Catholic Bishop of Canberra and Goulburn takes one view; the Anglican Bishop takes another view. Am I to say that they are not each men of conscience? Of course not. Both of them are men of conscience and great principle. I hope that we will see it that way in our approach to the problem. 
I would like to explain my approach to the problem so that my constituents know where I stand. I take the view that the Menhennitt ruling together with the Levine ruling draws the line in a proper way. I think that this is what the right honourable member for Lowe said yesterday. These rulings indicate the point where I believe that the various interests are appropriately resolved- that is, the sanctity of life, the protection of the woman and the social implications of abortion. I take the position determined by the Menhennitt and Levine rulings. However, other honourable member may take a narrower or wider view. I want to indicate to my electorate that I accept what is the law in New South Wales. I believe it is a reasonable assessment of the situation and takes into account all the principles. 
Having said how difficult it is to draw the line, I would like to ask a question- how does one draw the line. Traditionally the line has been drawn by reference to criminal action and by criminal sanction. This is the only way it could ever be drawn. I do not believe that the line can be drawn by the use of a medical benefits schedule. I would be more attracted to such a proposition if it were practicable, but I do not believe it would work. For instance, if the line was drawn at the place where the honourable member for Hume wants to draw it, one would need a certification procedure. The honourable member faces up to this requirement and he has included it in his motion. However, the honourable member for Moore has excised that provision in his motion because it worries him a lot. That does not get rid of the problem because the problem is still there. One still has to have a system of proving that the test laid down by the honourable member for Hume has been satisfied and one can only do that with some form of evidence or some sort of certification. Therefore one immediately involves a question of evidence and just imagine the difficulty of proof that would be involved. Supposing a certificate is rejected. What would one do? Would one appeal to some tribunal on a matter which is basically a matter of the criminal law? Of course one could not do that. It is just unthinkable that one could introduce into the medical benefits area criminal sanctions and criminal standards of proof. 
I should think under the existing situation that if a certificate comes from a doctor one should presume that he has acted within the law. Many honourable members will say that doctors are not acting within the law. All I suggest to them is that they bring pressure to bear on their State governments because it is the State governments which should implement the State laws. The reason why this is happening is because nobody will in effect bite the bullet. No one will face up to the real problem. I must say that to some extent- and I am not embracing the content of its law- South Australia has done this. But there has really been no attempt anywhere to implement a law based on the Menhennitt and Levine rulings. 
The only way to have an effective system is to put those principles into legislation and to require every woman who wishes an abortion to appear before two doctors, get the appropriate certificate and then have the abortion. One could then enforce the criminal law against those doctors, nurses and others who carry out abortions outside those rules. That is the only way to have an effective system. But legislators will not face up to this. Honourable members know that this legislature cannot face up to that issue because except for the Australian Capital Territory it does not have the power. The result is, of course, that the motion is not really practicable. 
I know that the motion has been moved with a great sense of principle. I understand the feeling of the honourable members involved, but it should be understood that I am in the Commonwealth Parliament. I have to support legislation and when, as a member of the Government, I go into the Cabinet room I have to decide, with other Ministers, whether such things are practicable. I know that this is not practicable. I know that I would be fooling my Catholic friends who want this motion passed if I were to suggest to them that I could recommend to the Government in the Cabinet room that it could have such legislation. As an honest and conscientious legislator I have to say that although I embrace the Menhennitt ruling, although I am against abortion, and although I understand the sanctity of the foetus, the rights of women and the social implications of abortion, I cannot in conscience support the motion. It is not a matter of conscience in the sense of some religious attitude. I cannot in conscience, in the sense of being an honest legislator, support the motion that is before this House because I do not believe that it could be implemented by any government, whatever its affiliation and regardless of whether it was made up of people who were all of the same view as to what the principle should be for drawing the line. 
That is a very emotive question. If there is an industrial dispute, I do not think that it would be very wise for me to answer the question. There is a dispute on Christmas Island and the Arbitrator has been notified of the dispute. The dispute involves most of the workers on the island, including administrative workers, and I have instructed a representative of the Department of Home Affairs to appear before the Arbitrator this afternoon to notify him of the dispute as far as it relates to the administration. At this stage, I do not want to say any more. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his searching question. I think every Australian is very proud of the rebirth of our film industry. I notice that that is acclaimed by both sides of the House. One of the things that we have been waiting for in relation to the rebirth of our industry is for it to be successful overseas. One fact which is clear is that we cannot support an industry that is simply able to show films to our 14 million people; we need to break into the wider market. Very good reports are coming from overseas about Australian films. 
For instance,  Picnic at Hanging Rock  and  Last Wave,  which are both personal triumphs for Peter Weir, have broken into the toughest market- the United States of America. 
The  Last Wave  reached position No. 25 on the list of the current 50 top grossing films in the United States and 10,000 seats were sold in the first three days for the showing of  Picnic at Hanging Rock. Newsfront  has been showing in London to full houses for eight weeks and brilliant reviews are following its showing. After an initial opening at five theatres in London the  Chant of Jimmy Blacksmith  is now showing to capacity audiences in London. Last month the Berlin film festival, as one of its major events, ran a special information category on Australian films. I was also told by the honourable member for Denison that there are very good reports on  A Australians After Dark  in Hong Kong. 
Honourable members will be aware that some years ago the Australian Film and Television School was established and that last year its first graduates graduated. Another group of graduates graduated this year. Those graduates are starting to move into our film and. television industry and to succeed. Most of them are in work, and this is extremely important in the film industry. One factor I find disturbing- I hope that honourable members also find it disturbing- is that the Australian Film Commission, I understand, has been asked by the New South Wales Film Corporation not to support four films at the next Cannes festival. Why? It is because the New South Wales Film Corporation wants to do so itself? I would hope that the tendency overseas to fragment our industry will stop. 
We have the strange position now of a New South Wales Film Corporation office as well as an Australian Film Commission office in Los Angeles. I hope that the efforts of our film industry through our commissions will be at one overseas. We cannot afford this split personality which seems to be designed to bolster the personality of the Premier of New South Wales. I finish on a pleasant note. Honourable members will recall that last week I sent them a letter inviting them to see  The Odd A Angry Shot  at six o 'clock in the National Library tonight. I remind honourable members of that invitation. I also remind members of the Press Gallery that they are invited. 
-First of all, I thank honourable members ibr the rational part of the debate which has taken place. That comment applies to most of the speeches. Unfortunately, it does not apply to part of the speech of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I had hoped that this would be a moment of unanimity, one of those rare moments in the Parliament when both sides speak with one voice. Unfortunately, the speech of the honourable member for Burke which started on a generous note in making some comments about me turned out to be mean and impoverished. The honourable member became a mouthpiece for villainous infamy and spurious slander. I was sorry to hear it. However, I shall deal with that part of his speech later. If he is listening to the debate I hope he will come back into the House to hear what I have to say about it. 
I believe that this generation of Australians is a very lucky generation. We have the task and the privilege to do things that will last for centuries. That is very significant. In this city we are building buildings that have to bridge centuries. We are building a High Court and a National Gallery which will bridge centuries. The building that will be constructed as a result of this Bill is intended to serve Australians and Australian parliamentarians into the very distant future. It will be the Westminster of Australia. Every one of us needs to understand the significance of what we are doing. We are not just constructing another Public Service building. In a sense we are not just constructing a building for parliamentarians. We are building what will be the centrepoint of democracy in this country. Therefore, it is a wheel to which we all should be proud to put our shoulders. 
It has taken a long time to get to this point. I am very privileged to feel that I have been able to play a part in the process. I also feel that it is a good thing that the matter has been left for so long. It has allowed the capacity which Australians undoubtedly have to build, construct, design and show their architectural skills to emerge. Had this building been constructed in 1920 or 1930 it would perhaps have shown the capacities of some British architect. This building will be a building for Australians. The building will involve Australian architects, Australian art and Australian design. Within it will be housed the centuries of future democracy in this country. We are the lucky Australians. Let us understand what we are about. We are not building just another building. Although some people in the community might be somewhat critical of politicians and think that we are building a great building for ourselves, I hope that they will understand that we are not doing that; we are undertaking this project for the country. I hope that they will be proud of it. I believe that they will be proud also when they see the High Court Building finished. A lot of comment has been made about the High Court building. Any Australians who walk through the High Court building when it is finished will feel that it is something distinctively Australian, something about which they will want to talk and of which they will be proud. 
This Bill is cast against the background of what has been happening in recent months, indeed in recent years. In understanding the Bill one has to realise that the Parliament has already appointed the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. Next week we hope to be able to bring forward amendments which will bring the Committee into line with the proposals in the Bill. That Committee has done a tremendous job. I joined the Committee only last year. The task of the Committee has been very detailed. It has been aimed at producing what is called a user brief. That is a document which lays down the detail of this great building. It has involved many decisions and much discussion and research. The competition document will be based on it. 
Tonight some honourable members have discussed whether the building will reflect parliamentarians. It is important to understand that the building will be built according to that user brief. It will be designed around that user brief. It is not a case in which we will design a shell and then decide what we will put in it. We have been working for years on the user brief. It is designed to inform those who will design the building of precisely what will go into it. That is the work of this Parliament. It is the work of its committee. The Committee is to be congratulated on what it has done. Processes to be followed in the future will involve close consultation. For instance, the Committee will continue in existence and will continue to provide advice to the Parliament House Construction Authority and to the Assessment Committee. In the process of the competition it will provide instructions and advice to the people who are chosen to participate in the competition. The Committee in a sense will be the watchdog of the Parliament and in another sense will tell those who are vitally interested the detail and nature of the building and the interrelationships between various facilities. The new parliament house will be a very complex building, but not of a complexity that intelligence and understanding cannot contemplate. The group of men of intelligence, integrity and experience in a number of fields who will work on this Authority will be able to see this job through and build the parliament house that we want. 
What were our reasons for having an Authority? We could have asked the Department of Housing and Construction or the National Capital Development Commission to undertake this job; but the Government decided that the job required a group of people who would dedicate themselves to the precise work and who would be given power to get on with the job. Those men ought to be able to put together programs and implement the final plan. The necessary skills are embodied in the experience of these gentlemen whom we have chosen. The Authority is set up to get on with the job, not to be hampered overly much, but to keep within the resolutions of this Parliament. In other words, it does not have a free hand. Firstly, it will conduct a competition in accordance with the instructions of this Parliament, which I hope we will be able to give next week, after this Bill is passed. Later, through the assessment process, the Authority will recommend a final designer. I hope that that person will be endorsed by this Parliament. The final plan, with the sketch plans and details, will be endorsed by this Parliament. The Authority will work in accordance with the endorsed plans. So, at all times the Authority will be circumscribed by the decisions of this Parliament. At all times the Joint Committee will be there as the watchdog to make sure that the Authority is getting on with the job in accordance with the decisions and resolutions of this Parliament. 
The honourable member for Burke criticised the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for announcing before this Bill came before the House the names of those who were to be appointed to the Authority. With respect, I do not think that the honourable member for Burke could have been present at some of the meetings of the Committee in January, if he is unaware of the urgency needed if this building is to be completed in time to be opened on 26 January 1988. There is a very tight time schedule. All members of the Joint Committee from both sides of this House are well aware of this fact. The honourable member for Burke is as much aware of it a we are. He knows why we announced the names in advance of the presentation of this Bill. Certain work had to be done over the parliamentary recess. The names would not have been announced early for any other reason. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would like to draw the honourable member's attention to my answer to  Mr Stewart's  question upon notice of 23 November 1978, concerning the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships (House of Representatives  Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 123). 
The Interdepartmental Working Group now has met on three occasions and is still considering the recommendations. I intend to make a statement on the Government's consideration of the Report, later this year. 
Royal Commission on Human Relationships (Question No. 3184) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) See my answer to question No. 3 1 82. 
Royal Commission on Human Relationships (Question No. 3190) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to question No. 3 1 82. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries remains under active consideration by the Government. As the honourable member will be aware the report contains a considerable number of recommendations which have far-reaching implications for all levels of government. Moreover, the recommendations envisage heavy expenditure by the Commonwealth and the States in the realisation of the objectives of the Committee's report. Accordingly, the Government needs to weigh up carefully the priorities proposed in the report with other expenditure priorities, particularly in the light of the Government's policy of expenditure restraint. 
When the Government is in a position to make decisions on the recommendations in the report an appropriate announcement will be made. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974, I present agreements concluded in February 1979 in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania for the National Estate. 
It is a fact that my notice has been drawn to an open letter, to the Prime Minister actually, which appeared in the  Canberra Times  this morning. It does point to what is regarded in the letter as a serious situation. I understand that next week the Public Accounts Committee is proposing to make certain inquiries in relation to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. Honourable members will recall that the Authority was established some years ago and successfully constructed the Belconnen Mall, which is one of the largest shopping centres in the Southern Hemisphere. It was opened last October. Since then, the Authority has proceeded to lease the premises to various large and small shopkeepers. The letter in question appears to be signed by  Mr Petersilka,  who is a very well known Canberra resident, although I understand that recently he decided to move to Queanbeyan, a matter that one might regret. However, the fact is that in recent years a number of small businesses have come under strain in the city of Canberra because of the fall-off in growth and therefore have felt that to some degree their businesses are under threat. Needless to say, when a large shopping mall is opened there will necessarily be tension of some description between the authority running it and the various lessees. 
I can assure the honourable member that I am keeping a watch on the activities of the Authority. It is going through the early stages of the running of the Mall and I believe that it is trying to do its best. As honourable members know, under the ordinance the Authority has to act in a way that is consistent with proper commercial practice. On the other hand, it has done what I think is a significant thing. It has built this Mall at a cost of some $41m. The Authority borrowed $40m of that $41m and it has to service that money. It was done under a Government guarantee, of course, but at the same time the Authority has the task of making sure that it gets in the interest and also meets the capital repayments. That is no mean task, and therefore it is necessary for the Authority to apply to the running of the Mall strict and proper business practices. 
In conclusion, I say to the honourable gentleman only that the question of the review of the Business Leases Ordinance is under consideration. One question that has been put to me is that there ought to be provision for arbitration of the rental on the renewal of a lease. That would mean imposing on existing contracts a provision that is not there, and one is reluctant to do that. However, the matter is under consideration. As against that, there is a great surplus- it has been measured at about 25 per cent- of commercial premises in Canberra at the moment. I would have thought that that would have the effect of keeping rentals down. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill and the motion to take note of the paper on Norfolk IslandGovernment policy- as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills and on the motion to take note of the paper at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills and the paper on Norfolk Island to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
1 ) That, in accordance with the provisions of section 8 of the Parliament House Construction Authority Act 1979, the House of Representatives (a) declares the conducting of a design Competition to be a declared stage in the design of Parliament House and (b) authorises commencement of work on that stage. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of the resolution agreed to by the House of Representatives. 
Section 8 of the Parliament House Construction Authority Act 1979 provides that the Parliament may, by resolutions of each of the Houses of Parliament, authorise the commencement or carrying out of work on declared stages of the design and construction of Parliament House. The stages through which the project must pass in a very short time indeed to its programmed completion in January 1988 include the architectural competition to select the designer. The purpose of the motion which I have moved is to provide the necessary authorisation for the Parliament House Construction Authority to proceed with the competition. The Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House considered various options for selecting a designer for the project. After consultation with the Royal Australian Institute of Architects, the Committee recommended a two-stage competition process. That recommendation has been adopted and a competition document has been prepared by the Parliament House Construction Authority to establish the conditions and design considerations to be observed by competitors. 
The two-stage competition will provide ample opportunity to ensure that the final design will meet the functional requirements of the Parliament. A panel of assessors has been appointed to determine the winner of the competition. That panel will be advised by a competition steering committee, representing the Parliament and the Authority. That committee will be responsible for detailed functional checking of the designs, thus ensuring that the Parliament is directly and closely involved in the development of the design for the project. The competition entails an open first stage, in which all architects registered to practise in Australia may participate. From the entries received in stage one, ten designs will be selected by the assessors and awarded prizes. From those ten designs, up to five and no fewer than three designs will be selected to proceed to the second stage of the competition, when the designs will be developed into detailed proposals. One winner will then be selected by the assessors. 
The proposed program for the competition will commence with the announcement of the competition on 7 April 1979 and registrations will close on 31 May 1979. Documents will then be distributed to competitors, who will have up to 16 weeks to prepare their stage one entries. That will be followed by an assessment period of approximately four weeks in September and October 1979 to select competitors to proceed to the second stage of the competition. The preparation of the second stage designs will commence in mid-November 1979 and registrations will close at the end of May 1980. The final assessment of the competition will take place in June and July 1980. The first stage of the project will conclude with the announcement of the competition winner in July 1980.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have much pleasure in moving the motion. 
in reply- I thank honourable members opposite for their creative and constructive contributions to this debate. The motion before the House is an historic one. In fact, when we pass it in a few moments it will mean that the Parliament House Construction Authority will be able to get on with the job. Already the Senate has passed a motion in similar . terms.. Each House has to approve stages of the construction of the new parliament house and the Senate has already passed its motion. We will undoubtedly pass this motion in a moment. It will be an historic moment when that occurs. Because it is of such significance, I will not delay that moment from coming. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I can assure the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  that fishing is just as good on Norfolk Island now as it was when he went fishing there- only, I caught a shark. I let it go as it got to the boat, I can assure him. We are very anxious to wind up the debate tonight, so I had better get on with it. When the Norfolk Island Council approached me with a view to amending the Bill, one of the things I was asked to do was to insert in the Bill a Schedule which showed the Acts of this Parliament that applied to Norfolk Island. I was loath to do that, but I did indicate that I would table in the House for inclusion in  Hansard,  if that were agreed to, a list of those Acts. I table that statement. I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

It was very interesting to listen to the honourable members opposite reading the amendments that the Opposition proposes to this Bill. One would have thought that complete self-government would be given to Norfolk Island. When one came to the end, with bitter disappointment, one realised that the taxation and the social security legislation of the Commonwealth would be extended to Norfolk Island in full. Of course, once one came to that proposition, which was No. 10 out of 11, one realised that what the Opposition was proposing was nothing like self-government. It was quite the opposite. The fact was that what the Opposition was proposing to give was very minor compared with what it was proposing to take away. The very essence of self-government in the long run- that is what this Bill is about- is the right to raise taxes and the capacity to provide services one wants to give to the people one represents. That is the essence of self-government. It is the basis of it. 
One of the things we have to realise when we are talking about self-government for Norfolk Island is simply this: The basis of it lies in the economic capacity of the island or otherwise to sustain its own government. That is why, in the statement I put out last year on behalf of the Government, I said that we would conduct an economic feasibility study. We realise that selfgovernment will not work on Norfolk Island- I believe the Norfolk Island Council accepts thisunless the island is economically feasible. I hope that within a few weeks' time we will have a report which will indicate that it is economically feasible. To some degree it will be based on the tourist industry. That always has some problems, wherever it is. We have it in Canberra. Norfolk Island is dependent on the tourist industry. Given the continuing success of the tourist industry it is quite likely that the report that comes out will show that Norfolk Island can look after itself and provide to all the people on the island those services that they require for their ordinary way of life 
I will come back to taxation and I will come back to social services. It has never been the view of the Government that social services should be provided simply by grace and favour. On the other hand, it is the view of the Government that there is nothing magical about the social services system of this country. Some of us might well ask why we ever undertook so much and what can we do to cut it back. But that is another question which we will not have time to go into tonight. What we will have time to go into tonight is the position of Norfolk Island regarding social services. As to that I just want to make it quite clear that the Government recognises the need for a social security system as a right and a need to provide proper services and proper benefits so that people can have a reasonable standard of living on the island. 
There has been a fear by some residents on Norfolk Island. Basically they are the people who are of Pitcairn descent. They feel- and I believe to some degree they have been whipped up by others- that Australia is taking away Norfolk Island. They fear that the Australian Government, this Parliament, is taking away Norfolk Island from them. I want to say- and I believe I am saying it on behalf of all honourable members- that that is not the intention of this Bill. This Bill recognises the relationship between the Pitcairn people and Norfolk Island. When we say that Norfolk Island is an Australian territory, that is a statement of law. There is a deep and abiding relationship between the Pitcairn people and the island itself, and that is not at risk. It is not under threat and the laws of Norfolk Island, I hope, will continue to protect the rights of those people who live there to enjoy their culture and to ensure that they can contain the number of people who go there to share the island with them. 
Of course there is a limit to the number of people who can live on Norfolk Island. Some people think it is about 2,000. Others have different views, but it certainly has a limit. The people of Norfolk Island should have the right to limit the numbers of people who live there. Indeed those people of Pitcairn descent, who have left Norfolk Island, should have the right to go back there provided it is consistent with the overriding question of numbers and the capacity of the island to take those numbers. It may not be widely known, but there are many more people of Pitcairn descent living off Norfolk Island than there are living on Norfolk Island. If they all went back at once it might create a problem. Everything that the honourable member for Hunter said about the island and the place that it represents, the fishing, the nature of the people there and their customs, is absolutely correct. I am sure his contribution to the debate is appreciated not only by myself but also by the people of Norfolk Island, who hopefully may be listening at this very moment. 
I emphasise that the Bill provides a framework within which self-government can be achieved. Self-government is something which in a sense emerges. It is not necessarily a good thing just to say to a place like Norfolk Island: 'Take the lot and get on with it'. Some honourable members have said, and it is true, that there is a dependence to some degree by Norfolk Island on Australia. I do not think the Norfolk Island people deny this nor do they want to make their association with the mainland. Therefore, there will always be dependence to some degree. For instance, goods are exported to Norfolk Island without sales tax. That is a concession which is made and one which the Australian Governments have consistently made because they understand the need to provide goods at that sort of level to the people of Norfolk Island. That is only a small instance of what I am talking about. The important thing is to recognise- and it is not really in dispute- that there will always be some sort of dependence on the economy of the mainland. The Government does not want to use that in any way to override the people of Norfolk Island, but it means that in the emergence of selfgovernment there is a need to be realistic about it and realises that in the end that dependence will remain, and it is a good thing for Norfolk Island that it does remain. 
Within that context one must recognise the need to see self-government as something that emerges. There are people on the island, I have to say, who believe that Norfolk Island is a nonselfgoverning territory within the meaning of Article 73 of the United Nations Charter. No government in Australia has ever recognised that as a fact. If it were, Norfolk would be like Cocos (Keeling) Islands; that is to say, it would be entitled to an act of self-determination. An act of self-determination embodies three things: The right to decide to be independent; the right to have a free association with the country with which it has been associated; or the right to be integrated. That is how Article 73 is applied. That is not the case with Norfolk Island. 
Norfolk Island has, by the High Court and by governments successively in Australia, been regarded as a place which is in a real sense Australian territory, just as the Northern Territory is. I emphasise that this is not to say that Norfolk Island is being taken away from the Norfolk Island people. It is not to say that the historical relationship and the substantial relationship that exists between the people of Norfolk Island and the island is not real and will not continue to be recognised by this Parliament. That is why I felt it was appropriate, when the Norfolk Island Council spoke with me after this Bill was introduced, to recommend that certain amendments be made in a preamble. They will be put to the Parliament later. The preamble will recognise the history of Norfolk Island. It will record that on 8 June 1856 people from Pitcairn came to settle on Norfolk Island. It will record that under the Order-in-Council of 1855 Norfolk Island was set aside as a separate and distinct settlement by the British Crown. It will recognise that in 1914, by Order-in-Council, Norfolk Island was transferred to Australia as a territory under the authority of the Commonwealth and that it has been so since. It will recognise in a very important way the other provisions contained in the amendments, namely, that people who are descendants of the original Pitcairners form part of the present residents of Norfolk Island. 
Let us understand that of the present residents 40 per cent are of Pitcairn descent. Some 40 per cent represents people who have gone there from Australian States, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and some from other parts of the world. I think the other 20 per cent represents people who are itinerant, in the sense that they go there to work, stay for a period and leave. The fact is that the proportion of the population of Pitcairn descent is now 40 per cent. It is not a majority. Therefore, there is a real need to look to the position of the Pitcairn people and make sure that there is no exploitation and to make sure that they are in a position where they can properly recognise and develop their culture. 
I hope, and the Government hopes, that this Bill will provide a framework within which the people of Norfolk Island, including those residents who are of Pitcairn descent, can stand on their own feet, with their own economy and run their own affairs. We, as a government, hope that this will take place within as short a period as is practicable. The Norfolk Island Council accepts the proposition that there will be a need to perform, not in a schoolmasterly sense of putting them through a test but in the sense that those of us who have had experience in legislative and executive functions know that it does not come easily. That is to say, it is an exercise that has to be learnt. Let us face it: Those of us who think that we are good at legislating and performing executive functions are not always showered with great plaudits by members of the community. No matter how one approaches the task, it is not easy. 
Therefore, when self-government is accepted by a community it must be approached gradually. To acknowledge that is not an act of paternalism but an acceptance of reality. The reality is that the Australian Government and this Parliament want to help Norfolk Island get on its feet so that it can conduct its own affairs and manage its own economy. Therefore the Bill must be seen as providing such a framework. 
Over the next period- let us hope that it will be no longer than five years- the people of Norfolk Island, through their elected representatives, will be able to control most of the things that affect their daily lives. There will always be some matters on which, to some degree, their interests will be interconnected with those of the mainland. For instance, in relation to immigration Norfolk Island must not become a back door to Australia. In relation to Customs, Norfolk Island must not become a back door for the entry of illegal drugs and the like. These are matters that are recognised. Therefore, the policy on the island must to some degree fit in with that of Australia generally on these matters. 
Again, fishing off Norfolk Island is of some significance, but its pursuit does entail international obligations which, as honourable members will recall, are negotiated under the Law of the Sea Conventions. They are matters that must be negotiated by the Australian Government but, basically, the fishing around Norfolk Island will be conducted, one hopes, for the benefit of the people of the island. I repeat, there must always be, as a matter of policy, some acknowledgement of the fact that the conducting of that fishing must fit in with the overall policy upon which the Australian Government, as the international representative, has agreed with other countries. 
The Bill provides a framework for the emergence of self-government. The first step in that process, which I hope we will see commenced by August of this year, will be a very significant one indeed. I believe that the elected representatives of Norfolk Island will have the capacity to run their own affairs. Otherwise I should not have pressed it upon the Government as fully as I have. It is to a very large degree an act of faith. I have great faith in the ability of the elected representatives, present or future, to undertake the running of the affairs of the island. We must wait and see. 
At the moment the Australian Government is preparing premises in some of the old buildings for a new Legislative Assembly and court. They will be new institutional buildings. They will be ready soon and, to some degree, will represent a contribution by the Australian Government to Norfolk Island in the establishment of its basic institutions. I hope that, when the Legislative Assembly is opened, this Parliament will recognise the fact that we have a new Parliament on Australian soil- that of Norfolk Island. 
A number of amendments have been proposed by the Opposition. I do not want to take up too much time in going through them; we do not have much time available. The Bill must proceed through its Committee stage tonight. I do not want to treat them with anything less than the respect that is their due. However, except here and there, they do not find much favour with the Government. For instance, the first relates to transferring to the Legislative Assembly the executive government of Norfolk Island and abolishing the Executive Council. The whole Bill is constructed on a basis that will ensure that the Legislative Assembly of Norfolk Island will follow the Westminster system, one that is well known in this country. It is well known to British descendants and well known to the people of Norfolk Island. It is the framework within which they have operated. 
And it is the framework within which my honourable friend opposite has operated in this Parliament. It is well understood. There must be an Executive. There must be people who can undertake the various responsibilities involved. Once we reach a situation in which responsibilities must be borne right across the board- and are not merely those of local government- we must have people who are responsible for the various areas. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Innes' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Listening to honourable members opposite, one would have thought that they had suddenly seen the light and had come to believe that places such as the Northern Territory should be given complete self-government; that all power should be given to the Northern Territory and that no power should be exercised from Canberra. If they ever return to the Treasury bench, I wonder what they will do. I imagine that they will start on the old process of centralisation and all power being held in Canberra. However, I remind the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  that the Northern Territory did have a deal of involvement in executive functions before it moved towards what is practically full self-government. Consistent with the Commonwealth's obligations to the Aboriginal people and consistent with the powers which they wish to exercise with respect to uranium, the Northern Territory has complete self-government. 
Any comparison between the States and Norfolk Island in relation to taxation is quite wrong because the States have the power to impose taxes and not be part of the uniform taxation system. The fact is that no State has yet been prepared to withdraw from the uniform taxation system. But the States have self-government within their area of power under the Constitution and they can impose taxes. That is the essence of self-government. In other words, the States could, if they wanted, not be as dependent on the Commonwealth as they are at the moment. But they have chosen their present situation. What we are wanting to do in respect of Norfolk Island is to enable the Norfolk Island people to raise their own taxes, to provide for their own services and to make their own decisions. That is what this Bill will ultimately do. 
A lot has been said about taxation. I remind honourable members that, from recollection, during their term of office amendments were made to the Income Tax Assessment Act. I believe that the drafting of legislation to make those amendments was commenced at the time of the previous coalition Government but, from recollection, that legislation was enacted during the Opposition's term of office. Those amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act had the result of removing the possibility of income tax evasion being carried out on Norfolk Island. The registration of companies is a source of revenue to Norfolk Island. But the fact is that if we look at the fees involved we find that the fees for last year totalled something like $250,000 and that the estimated fees for this year total about $140,000. That indicates that the use of the island for the purposes of company registration is falling away. That is partly because of the fact that gift duty and estate duty have been removed in the States and death duty has been removed in a number of States. Consequently, the relevance of Norfolk Island in a tax sense is disappearing; therefore, the use of Norfolk Island for those purposes is likely to diminish. 
In any event, what honourable members opposite are saying to Norfolk Island when they say 'do not let Norfolk Island be used as a tax haven' is that Norfolk Island should impose stamp duty. If the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly, when it is set up, decides to impose a stamp duty, no doubt that will provide a source of revenue for the Island. But it will be up to the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly to decide whether to impose stamp duty. Of course, it will not be the duty of the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly to impose stamp duty, any more than it is the duty of the New South Wales Government or Queensland Government to impose stamp duty, or to raise or lower the rate of stamp duty. It will be a matter for the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly to decide. It is true that, as the Bill is drafted, until full self-government is achieved, part of the function of raising taxes will rest with the Commonwealth Government. But part of that function will rest also with the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. 
Other matters have been raised. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  claimed that certain proposed amendments appeared in the  Norfolk Island News  or whatever he said the newspaper was called. They did not appear in such a paper. There was a summary of some discussion that the councillors had with me. In no sense did these amendments appear, on my information, in the  Norfolk Island News. 
The amendments are designed to meet certain objections. They will enable the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly to call its laws Acts if it wishes to. The amendments seek to delete the phrase 'Territory of the Commonwealth' which was considered offensive and substitute the phrase 'Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth'. This was something that I was quite happy to do. I and the Government agreed to this change. We agreed to give the Legislative Assembly powers to appoint a member to preside at the Executive Council if the Administrator is not present and to convene the Executive 
Council. Quite a large number of the amendments arise from the simple fact that we have given the Legislative Assembly the power to call its laws Acts. Therefore we seek to remove the word 'ordinance'. So,  Mr Chairman,  I have moved circulated amendments Nos. 2 to 41 in these terms: 
Clause 4, page 2, line 14, omit 'section 8', substitute 'this Act'. 
Clause 4, page 2, after the definition of 'Deputy President', insert the following definition:  "enactment" means- 
a law (however described or entitled) passed by the Legislative Assembly and assented to under this Act; 
an Ordinance made by the Governor-General under section 27 or in pursuance of section 68; or 
an Ordinance continued in force by this Act; '. 
Clause 4, page 2, lines 23 and 24, omit the definition of Ordinance'. 
Clause 4, page 2, lines 32 and 33, omit the definition of Territory', substitute the following definition:  "Territory" means Norfolk Island, that is to say, the Territory of Norfolk Island as described in Schedule 1 . '. 
Clause 5, page 3, lines 2 and 3, omit 'Territory of the Commonwealth', substitute 'Territory under the authority ofthe Commonwealth'. 
Clause 7, page 3, line 38, omit ', whether before or after the giving of that advice', substitute 'in accordance with subsection (3)'. 
Clause 7, pages 3 and 4, omit sub-clause (3), substitute the following sub-clause: 
For the purposes of sub-section (2), the Minister may give the Administrator instructions in respect of advice tendered to the Administrator for the purposes of paragraph (l)(b), and may give the Administrator instructions in respect of the referral to the Minister of any such advice.'. 
Clause 11, page S, after sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clause: (3a) If the Administrator is not present at a meeting of the Executive Council, the members of the Executive Council present shall elect one of their number to preside.'. 
Clause 1 1, page 5, after sub-clause (S), insert the following sub-clause: (5a) The Administrator may convene a meeting of the Executive Council at any time, and shall convene a meeting whenever requested to do so by 3 or more members of the Executive Council.'. 
Clause 17, page 6, line 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 17, page 6, line 38, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 17, page 7, line 2, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 17, page 7, line 3, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 18, page 7, line 8, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 19, page 7, line 14, omit 'Ordinances', substitute laws'. 
Clause 19, page 7, line 17, omit 'Ordinances' (twice occurring), substitute 'laws'. 
Clause 19, page 7, line 24, omit 'Ordinances', substitute laws'. 
Clause 20, page 7, line 28, omit 'Ordinances' (twice occurring), substitute 'laws'. 
Clause 21, page 7, line 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 7, line 39, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 7, line 41, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 1, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 2, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 3, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 5, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 8, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law*. 
Clause 2 1, page 8, line 9, omit 'shall ', substitute 'may'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 11, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 16, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 21, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 24, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 25, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 26, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 27, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 28, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 31, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 35, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 38, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 39, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 40, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
by leave- Amendments Nos 42 to 52 relate to clause 23. 1 move: 
Clause 23, page 8, line 43, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 23, page 8, line 44, omit 'Ordinance' (twice occurring), substitute ' law '. 
Clause 23, page 9, line 2, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 23, page 9, line 4, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 23, page 9, line 5, omit 'an Ordinance', substitute a law'. 
Clause 23, page 9, line 8, omit 'Ordinance' (twice occurring), substitute 'law'. 
Clauses 23, page 9, line 10, omit 'an Ordinance', substitute a law'. 
Clause 23, page 9, line 1 1, omit 'an Ordinance', substitute a law'. 
Clause 23, page 9, line 13, omit 'Ordinance' (twice occurring), substitute 'law'. 
Clause 23, page 9, line 14, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 23, page 9, line IS, omit 'an Ordinance', substitute a law'. 
Amendments Nos 42 to 52 are consequential on giving the Legislative Assembly power to call its legislation Acts. 
Amendments agreed to. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has tried to put me in the dock and convict me on words that came out of my own mouth. Of course, as the honourable member well knows and as honourable members opposite well know, a clause similar to this was inserted in the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act. A similar provision is in the laws relating to the Capital Territory. In other words, it emphasises the fact that this Parliament has always reserved the power of the government of the day in the interests of the people. This Parliament has ultimate responsibility for the people of Norfolk Island. Let us not forget that point. This clause is merely an expression of that. It is very much a reserve power. It is most unlikely that it will ever be used. That is the basis upon which it is inserted in this Bill. 
I can understand the Opposition trying to curry favour with the people on Norfolk Island by creating this sort of mirage of giving them self-government in the one breath and hitting them with taxation, social service benefits and all the rest of it in the other breath. I can understand the Opposition saying that sort of thing, but the fact is that this provision is designed to give expression to an ordinary constitutional practice. My memory may be faulty, but I think that to some degree we have a similar provision in our own Constitution. 
No, it is not in section 64. Section 59 of our own Constitution expresses the same idea. Needless to say, because we have become a Commonwealth in terms of the Statute of Westminster, section 59 of the Constitution has fallen into disuse. But that is not the relationship between this Parliament and the new Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. This Parliament will still have responsibility for the people of Norfolk Island. Therefore this is an essential part of the constitutional arrangements. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 24. 
by leave- I move: 
Clause 24, page 9, line 20, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 24, page 9, line 21, omit 'Ordinance' (first and second occurring), substitute 'law'. 
Clause 24, page 9, line 21, omit 'an Ordinance', substitute a law'. 
Clause 24, page 9, line 22, omit 'an Ordinance', substitute a law'. 
These amendments are consequential upon giving the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly power to call its laws Acts. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 25 and 26- by leave- taken together. 
by leave- I move: 
Clause 25, page 9, line 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 26, page 9, line 44, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
These amendments likewise flow from the fact of giving the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly power to call its laws Acts. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 27. 
I trust that it is understood by honourable members that what this Bill does is to provide for two legislative authorities, that is to say, the Legislative Assembly, through which most Bills will pass, and the Australian Government with which will rest the ultimate authority in relation to matters that do not stand within Schedules 2 and 3. The whole exercise of self-government, as I have already pointed out, is an exercise whereby all the funds necessary to provide the services will be raised within Norfolk Island. Therefore, the purpose of this measure has to be seen against that background. 
At the moment the Government has power to, and does, levy charges on the people of Norfolk Island; and it will continue to have that power. It is not imposing Australian taxation or extending it to Norfolk Island. That power is already there. The result of the Bill, of course, will diminish the power somewhat because the Government can raise levies only for those areas of responsiblity which will fall outside Schedules 2 and 3. These  provisions are designed quite simply to deal with an emergency  situadon.  An emergency situation is simply where there are no funds to meet the public services of the island. That is part of the ultimate responsibility of the Government because it will be one of* the governing authorities of the island for the time being until there is a fuller measure of self-government. Those provisions are there to  meet that  purpose. Therefore, these amendments are opposed. 
Amendments negatived. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth-Minister for Home Affairs)- by leave- I move: 
In clause 27, page 10, line 3, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
In clause 27, page 10, line 6, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
In clause 27, page 10, line 8, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
In clause 27, page 10, line 12, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
In clause 27, page 10, line 14, omit 'an Ordinance ', substitute 'a law'. 
In clause 27, page 10, line 1 S, omit 'an Ordinance', substitute 'a law'. 
In clause 27, page 10, line 18, omit 'the Ordinance '.substitute ' an Ordinance '. 
In clause 27, page 10, lines 24 and 25, omit 'an Ordinance ', substitute 'a law '. 
In clause 27, page 10, line 27, omit 'such'. 
Most of these amendments are purely formal. They follow again from the fact that the Legislative Assembly has been given power to call its laws Acts. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 2 8 to 6 1 -by leave- taken together. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth-Minister for Home Affairs)- by leave- I move: 
In clause 29, page 12, line 20, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 29, page 12, line 23, omit 'Ordinances', substitute 'an enactment and an Ordinance '. 
In clause 29, page 12, lines 26 and 27, omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clause: 
A reference in this section to an enactment or to an Ordinance shall be read as including a reference to a law made under an enactment or under an Ordinance, as the case maybe.'. 
In clause 30, page 12, line 28, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 30, page 12, line 30, omit 'Ordinance' (twice occurring), substitute 'enactment'. 
In clause 31, page 12, line 35, omit 'The', substitute 'Subject to the regulations, the '. 
In clause 31, page 12, line 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 38, page 13, line 36, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 38, page 13, line 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 39, page 14, line 23, omit 'or honorarium', substitute ' , honorarium or reward '. 
In clause 40, page 14, line 42, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 42, page 16, line 2, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 44, page 16, line 22, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 46, page 16, line 28, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 46, page 16, line 29, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 16, line 34, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 16, line 35, omit 'Ordinance' (twice occurring), substitute 'enactment '. 
In clause 47, page 16, line 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 17, line 1, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 17, line 2, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 17, line 5, omit 'Ordinance' (twice occurring), substitute 'enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 17, line 1 1, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 17, line 12, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 17, line 14, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 47, page 17, line 16, omit 'Ordinance' (twice occurring), substitute 'enactment '. 
In clause 48, page 1 7, line 22, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 48, page 1 7, line 24, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 50, page 17, lines 29 and 30, omit ', from time to time,'. 
In clause 50, page 17, line 41, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 53, page 18, add at the end of the clause the following sub-clause: 
Before tendering advice to the Governor-General for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ), the Minister shall give the Executive Council the opportunity of furnishing comments to him and shall consider any comments so furnished.'. 
In clause 58, page 19, line 3, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 58, page 1 9, line 4, omit ' , from time to time, '. 
In clause 59, page 1 9, line 1 5, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 60, page 1 9, line 1 7, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
In clause 6 1 , page 1 9, line 1 9, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
As I said earlier, most of these amendments relate to the fact that we have agreed that the Legislative Assembly should have the power to call its laws Acts. Therefore, the word 'ordinance', wherever it appears, has had to be removed. There are some other amendments. They are basically formal, except for one in particular, which states in part: 
Before tendering advice to the Governor-General for the purposes of sub-section (1), the Minister shall give the Executive Council the opportunity of furnishing comments to him and shall consider any comments so furnished. 
I recollect that clause 53 relates to the appointment of a judge to Norfolk Island. That clause simply gives the Executive Council the right of consultation before any judge is appointed. 
The Government does not agree to this proposal. It again underlines what the Opposition wants to do with the island. It provided these sops in its amendments during the second reading debate, but then it offers Australian taxation and Australian social security benefits and now it wants to involve the Australian arbitration system. The Norfolk Island people have been running the island in accordance with their own customs in association with successive Australian governments since 1914 and, before that, more or less on their own with a governor since 1856. They know nothing of an arbitration system, let alone the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904. They know nothing of the formation of unions. They know nothing of any of these things that go with an arbitration system. The fact is that the question of industrial relations on the island has yet to be worked out. The so-called oppression that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  talks about is not something that has been very evident to me on my visits to the island. 
The fact is that there is little unemployment on the island and those who are unemployed appear to get some assistance. But when the social welfare system is being worked out no doubt the question of those who might temporarily be in need because of unemployment will be considered in the context of that sort of system. No doubt, too, one of the things that needs to be looked at carefully over the period ahead is for any sign of exploitation of people who work on the island. Responsibility for this area, of course, will remain with the Government. No doubt it will be one of the functions of the Administrator in the future to keep a watchful eye on it. At this stage the Government could not  contemplate extending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to Norfolk Island. We oppose the amendment. 
by leave- I move: 
Clause 63, page 19, line 24, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Page 20, after clause 65, insert the following new clause:  65a ( 1 ) The Governor-General, acting with the advice ofthe Attorney-General, may, by warrant under his hand, grant to a person convicted by a court of the Territory exercising criminal jurisdiction a pardon, either free or conditional, or a remission or commutation of sentence, or a respite, for such period as he thinks fit, ofthe execution of sentence, and may remit any fines, penalties and forfeitures imposed or incurred under a law in force in the Territory. 
Without limiting the powers of the GovernorGeneral under sub-section ( 1 ), provision may be made by enactment for the remission, for good conduct, of pan of the sentence of a person serving a sentence of imprisonment in the Territory. 
Where an offence has been committed in the Territory, or where an offence has been committed outside the Territory for which the offender may be tried in the Territory, the Governor-General, acting with the advice of the Attorney-General, may, by warrant under his hand, grant a pardon to an accomplice who gives evidence that leads to the conviction ofthe principal offender, or of any ofthe principal offenders. '. 
Clause 66, page 20, lines 16 and 17, omit 'the senior Judge ', substitute ' a Judge '. 
Clause 66, page 20, lines 23 to 25, omit paragraph (a), substitute the following paragraph: 
regulations repealing or altering an item in Schedule 2 shall not be made except after- 
a copy of the proposed regulations has been laid before the Legislative Assembly; and 
the Legislative Assembly has passed a resolution approving the proposed regulations; and'. 
Clause 66, page 20, line 27, omit 'shall not', substitute 'do not'. 
Clause 66, page 20, at the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: 
A reference in sub-section (2 ) to a Schedule shall be read as including a reference to that Schedule as varied from time to time by regulations made by virtue of that sub-section.'. 
Clause 68, page 20, line 34, omit 'extends', substitute extend'. 
Clause 68, page 20, line 35, add at the end of the subclause 'and with respect to matters relating to the Legislative Assembly'. 
Clause 70, page 21, line 22, after 'were', insert 'a law'. 
Clause 71, page 21, line 28, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 72, page 21, line 29, omit 'Ordinance' (second occurring), substitute 'enactment'. 
Clause 73, page 21, line 42, omit 'by virtue of any contract or agreement', substitute 'arising out of the investment of any moneys in pursuance of section 1 7 of that Ordinance *. 
Clause 73, page 22, line I, after 'liabilities', insert '(other than rights and liabilities referred to in paragraph (a) or (b))'. 
Clause 73, page 22, lines 4 and 5, omit ', other than a contract or agreement referred to in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ), '. 
Page 22, after clause 74, insert the following new clauses: 
The reference in section 63 to the accounts of the Territory shall be read as including a reference to accounts prepared before the commencing date and to accounts prepared on or after the commencing date in respect of any period before the commencing date. 
( 1 ) The regulations may make provision (including provision by way of modifications and adaptions of any Act) for and in relation to any matter arising from, consequential upon or otherwise connected with the establishment of the Administration of Norfolk Island as a body politic. 
The power to make regulations by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) extends to the making of regulations expressed to take effect on and from a date earlier than the date of the making of the regulations, not being a date earlier than the commencing date. 
Regulations shall not be made by virtue of this section after 30 June 1980.'. 
Preamble, page 1, lines 1 to 8, omit the preamble substitute the following preamble: 
Whereas by an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, made and passed in the sixth and seventh years of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria intituled "An Act to amend so much of an Act of the last Session, for the Government of New South Wales and Van Diemen 's Land, as relates to Norfolk Island." it was, amongst other things, enacted that it should be lawful for Her Majesty, by Letters Patent under the Great Seal of the United Kingdom, to sever Norfolk Island from the Government of New South Wales and to annex it to the Government and Colony of Van Diemen 's Land: 
And whereas Her Majesty Queen Victoria, in exercise of the powers vested in Her by the said Act, by a Commission under the Great Seal of the United Kingdom bearing date the twenty-fourth day of October, 1 843, appointed that from and after the twenty-ninth day of September, 1844, Norfolk Island should be severed from the Government of New South Wales and annexed to the Government and Colony of Van Diemen 's Land: 
And whereas by an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, called the Australian Waste Lands Act 18SS, it was, amongst other things, provided that it should be lawful for Her Majesty at any time, by Order in Council, to separate Norfolk Island from the Colony of Van Diemen 's Land and to make such provision for the Government of Norfolk Island as might seem expedient: 
And whereas on 8 June 1856 persons who had previously inhabited Pitcairn Island settled on Norfolk Island: 
And whereas by an Order in Council dated the twentyfourth day of June, 1 856, made by Her Majesty in pursuance of the last-mentioned Act, it was ordered and declared, amongst other things, that from and after the date of the proclamation of the Order in New South Wales. Norfolk Island should be thereby separated from the said Colony of Van Diemen 's Land (now called Tasmania) and that from that date all power, authority, and jurisdiction of the Governor, Legislature, Courts of Justice, and Magistrates of Tasmania over Norfolk Island should cease and determine, and that from the said date Norfolk Island should be a distinct and separate Settlement, the affairs of which should until further Order in that behalf by Her Majesty be administered by a Governor to be for that purpose appointed by Her Majesty with the advice and consent of Her Privy Council: and it was thereby further ordered that the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony of New South Wales should be, and he thereby was, constituted Governor of Norfolk Island, with the powers and authorities in the said Order mentioned: 
And whereas the said Order in Council was proclaimed in New South Wales on 1 November 1856: 
And whereas by an Order in Council dated the fifteenth day of January, 1 897, made in pursuance of the said lastmentioned Act,  Her  Majesty, after reciting that it was expedient that other provision should be made for the government of Norfolk Island, and that, in prospect of the future annexation of Norfolk Island to the Colony of New South Wales or to any Federal body of which that Colony might thereafter form part, in the meantime the affairs of Norfolk Island should be administered by the Governor of New South Wales as therein provided, was pleased to revoke the said Order in Council of the twenty-fourth day of June, One thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, and to order that the affairs of Norfolk Island should thenceforth, and until further Order should be made in that behalf by  Her  Majesty, be administered by the Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony of New South Wales and its Dependencies: 
And whereas the said Order in Council was published in the New South Wales  Government Gazette  on 19 March 1897, and took effect at that date: 
And whereas by an Order in Council dated the eighteenth day pf October, One thousand nine hundred, made in pursuance of the said last mentioned Act,  Her  Majesty was pleased to revoke the said Order in Council of the fifteenth day of January, One thousand eight hundred and ninety-seven, and to order that the affairs of Norfolk Island should thenceforth, and until further Order should be made in that behalf by  Her  Majesty, be administered by the Governor for the time being of the State of New South Wales and its Dependencies: 
And whereas the said Order in Council was published in the New South Wales  Government Gazette  on 1 January 1 90 1 , and took effect at that date: 
And whereas by an Order in Council dated the 30th day of March, 1914, His Majesty King George V, by virtue and in exercise of the power in that behalf by the said lastmentioned Act or otherwise in His Majesty vested, after reciting that the Parliament had passed an Act No. 15 of 1913, entitled 'An Act to provide for the acceptance of Norfolk Island as a territory under the authority of the Commonwealth, and for the government thereof and that it was expedient that the said Order in Council of 18th of October, 1 900, should be revoked and that Norfolk Island should be placed under the authority of the Commonwealth of Australia, was pleased to revoke the said Order in Council of 18th of October, 1900, and to order that Norfolk Island be placed under the authority of the Commonwealth of Australia: 
And whereas the said Order in Council was published in the  Gazette  on 17 June 1914, and took effect from l July 1914, being the date of commencement of the  Norfolk hand Act  1913: 
And whereas Norfolk Island was, by the  Norfolk Island Act  1913, declared to be accepted by the Commonwealth as a Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth: 
And whereas Norfolk Island has been governed by the Commonwealth initially under the provisions of the  Norfolk Island Act  1913, and subsequently under the provisions of the  Norfolk Island Act  1957: 'And whereas the residents of Norfolk Island include descendants of the settlers from Pitcairn Island: 
And whereas the Parliament recognises the special relationship of the said descendants with Norfolk Island and their desire to preserve their traditions and culture: 
And whereas the Parliament considers it to be desirable and to be the wish of the people of Norfolk Island that Norfolk Island achieve, over a period of time, internal selfgovernment as a Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth and, to that end, to provide, among other things, for the establishment of a respresentative Legislative Assembly and of other separate political and administrative institutions on Norfolk Island: 
And whereas the Parliament intends that within a period of 5 years after the coming into operation of this Act consideration will be given to extending the powers conferred by or under this Act on the Legislative Assembly and the other political and administrative institutions of Norfolk Island, and that provision be made in this Act to enable the results of such consideration to be implemented: '. 
These amendments in part insert a provision which is intended to ensure proper provisions relating to the granting of pardons, remissions of penalties and the like so that the criminal justice system can operate adequately. One provision which is important is amendment No. 106 which is designed to ensure that no amendments can be made to Schedule 2 which, in effect, would cut down the powers under Schedule 2 without the consent of the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. That is a very important guarantee to the Legislative Assembly and that is why it has been inserted. There are some other formal amendments but I do not think I need to refer to them. 
I move: 
Omit clause 3, substitute the following clause: 
Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (3) the following sub-section: 3a. A reference in this Part to an office includes a reference to an office that, within the meaning of the Norfolk Island Act 1979, is an office of member of the Legislative Assembly, member of the Executive Council or executive member and a reference to any office in or in connection with that Assembly that can be held only by a member of that Assembly. '. '. 
The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the references to the various offices in the Bill accord with the references to those offices in subclause 65 (4) of the Norfolk Island Bill 1978. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I replied substantively on 4 April 1979 to the honourable member's letter. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Parliament House Architectural Competition Document. I commend it to honourable members. Each honourable member will receive a copy of it. The document sets out the basis of the competition and contains the details as determined by the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. 
-I thank the honourable member for asking the question because it gives me an opportunity to indicate to honourable members that I will be attending - 
-I am aware of the interest of a number of honourable members in the subject of the milk supply to Canberra. Honourable members might well be aware that the tendering process for milk supply to the Capital Territory has been aimed at getting a quality supply at a reasonable price to the consumer. That is still the policy that is being implemented by me as the Minister. It would not be proper for me to say too much at the moment because tendering processes are going on. The process will be aimed at looking at matters such as quality, quality control, guarantee of supply, performance and maintenance of standards, the need to diversify sources of supply and the position of traditional suppliers to the Canberra market such as the Bega Co-operative Society Ltd in which the honourable member is very interested. On the other hand not only are the interests of dairy farmers involved but also the interests of consumers in the Capital Territory. The aim will be as I have stated. I have indicated to the milk authority that it may take into account the matter of long term contracts. It is not necessary for it to confine itself to a yearly contract. It could take into account contracts which might run for a longer period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
20,622. 
1 1,821 on scheduled flights from Australia; 6,91 1 on scheduled flights from New Zealand; 1,890 on unscheduled flights from various countries. 
) Information on this matter is not readily available but an economic feasibility study which is being undertaken may provide information on this matter. I will let the honourable member know of any relevant figures arising from the study. 
Norfolk Island promotes the Island as a tourist destination through a central authority, the Norfolk Island Tourist Board, which consists of representatives from all areas of the industry in Norfolk Island. The  Chairman  is  Mr David  E. Buffett 
The Board 's promotional activities include: 
promoting Norfolk Island in the media in Australia and New Zealand; 
b ) sponsoring visits by travel agents both from Australia and New Zealand; 
production and distribution of coloured brochures and posters; 
participation in major travel industry seminars etc for example Talkabout in Sydney and Melbourne and Mate in Auckland; 
assistance and encouragement to promotion of the Bounty Week Festival. 
The Board is jointly funded by a grant from the Norfolk Island Administration and contributions from participants in the tourist industry in Norfolk Island. 
-(Wentworth-Minister for 
Home Affairs)- Pursuant to section 38 of the Australia Council Act 1975,I present the annual report of the Australia Council for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Film Commission Act 1975,I present the annual report of the Australian Film Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the National Gallery Act 1975,I present the annual report of the Australian National Gallery for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
by leave- On behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  I move: 
1  ) After clause  2,  insert the following new clause:  2a.  Section  77l  of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section  (2  ) the following sub-section:  (2a)  The Minister for National Development may, from time to time, determine, for the purposes of subsection  (2)  of section  77m,  an amount per kilolitre (in that sub-section referred to as the "declared amount") that, in lieu of the amount of  $18.90  per kilolitre specified in that sub-section, is to apply to stabilized crude petroleum oil specified in the determination. " '. 
) Clause  3,  lines  9  and  10,  omit ' " or such other amount per kilolitre as is prescribed from time to time for the purposes of this sub-section" ', substitute ' "or, if a declared amount is applicable to that oil, the declared amount per kilolitre" '. 
As was mentioned earlier in the second reading speech to this House the purpose of the amendments proposed by this Bill are to give effect to the Government's decision announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 24 May 1979 that the excise levy on oil priced at import parity will be increased by an amount equal to the amount that will by 1 July 1 979 have occurred since 3 1 December 1978. The amendment introduced earlier introduces flexibility into the Act to enable regulations to be made to set a separate base figure from the present $18.90 per kilolitre. However, the Government has now decided that it is necessary to provide maximum flexibility in the law to make adjustments to the levy that it may deem desirable in response to fast changing world conditions. In addition, the economies of different size fields may make it desirable to have maximum flexibility to apply different rates of levy if warranted. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I thank the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for his lecture on how to act as Minister for the Capital Territory. It is true that a great deal of responsibility is imposed upon the Minister under the existing arrangements. In a very democratic way last year the Government put to the people of the Australian Capital Territory whether they wanted self-government or whether they wanted the existing arrangements to continue. Quite clearly, the people of the Capital Territory decided that they did not want self-government. They wanted the existing situation to continue, whether or not I liked it. They expressed a preference and that preference was to continue a situation in which the House of Assembly was purely an advisory body. 
The most interesting thing that has fallen from the lips of the honourable member for Wills or the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has been the statement made by the honourable member for Wills who reflects back on that golden age when he thought that money grew on trees, as did many of his colleagues. As he reflected he said that he passed this Poker Machine Control Ordinance into law, with the consent of the Governor-General, but that he had grave reservations about it. I thank the honourable member for his usual honesty. I suggest that the reason he had grave reservations was that he knew that he was placing large sums of money into the hands of a body which was quite independent of him, as the Minister who had the ultimate responsibility to Parliament. I suggest also that he thought the Assembly would truly become a legislative assembly. It did not, for the reason pronounced by the people of Canberra in November last year. 
Some body has to have the day to day responsibility for the administration of large sums of money. At the moment, $1.8m or $ 1.9m- honourable members should not hold me to these figures precisely- is in the poker machine account. That is a very substantial sum. It is not that the view that the Assembly should utilise these moneys at its own discretion has gone unchallenged. Many people in Canberra who are involved in welfare work are considerably disturbed at the possibility that this body should undertake projects which, for instance, had nothing whatsoever to do with welfare and which ignored the needy people in the community. 
What happened last year when the question arose to what should happen to these funds? It is a very interesting story. On 18 September the Assembly resolved to commit poker machine trust moneys for the construction of an indoor recreation complex in Civic. It purported to commit funds for further study of the project and to commit future trust moneys to it. On 22 September last year the  President, Mr Pead,  who is a member of the Poker Machine Licensing Board of the Australian Capital Territory, directed the Registrar of Poker Machines to pay $ 1 4,000 into a new account to pay travelling expenses of Assembly members Pead, Leedman and Whalan while they were examining various recreation centres. On 5 October 1979 the AttorneyGeneral's Department advised that the resolution was invalid; that future funds could not be earmarked; and that the Ordinance did not authorise the payment of travelling expenses. A copy of that advice from the Attorney-General's Department was referred to the Legislative Assembly on 10 October. 
Because I do not believe that the privilege of this place should be abused, may I make it perfectly clear that I am not in any way reflecting on the bona fides of any of the Assembly members. I have no doubt that what they did was done honestly. However it is quite clear the Assembly was putting forward a proposition to build a very expensive and expansive indoor community recreation centre which would cost much more than $1.7m and which it would, of course, not be within the competence of the Assembly to provide. Why? The Assembly would have to add the cost of the building, the cost of the site and the running cost, which no doubt would be many hundreds of thousands of dollars per annum. When confronted with this large sum of money, the Assembly decided to put it into this substantial building project. But it could not deliver the goods. Why? It could not do so because it had to depend on the Minister and on land which only the Minister could provide. It had to depend also on funds for the running of the centre which only the Government could provide. At the outset the Assembly demonstrated why it was, I should think, the honourable member for Wills had grave reservations about this matter. Not only was it undesirable that nobody should have responsibility, and not only was the Assembly's proposal inconsistent with what the people of Canberra decided last November, but also an indication was given to the type of venture into which the Assembly thought these moneys should go. Section 43 of the Poker Machine Control Ordinance, as it was put into law by the honourable member for Wills, states: 
The Board shall, from time to time, at the request of the Legislative Assembly, pay out of the trust account established in accordance with section 42 such sums of money (not exceeding the balance standing to the credit of the account) to such bodies, organisations or persons for such community projects as the Legislative Assembly determines. 
Apparently the Legislative Assembly intended to set up its own trust. No body had been set up previously to build an indoor recreation centre. How were these funds, which were supposedly to provide for the people in need and the welfare agencies, to be used for cultural, artistic and sporting purposes other than directly through an indoor recreation centre? In other words, at the outset the spirit of this Ordinance was completely ignored. The Ordinance merely reflected what was already in the Betting (Totalizator Agency) Ordinance. That Ordinance contained a similar provision but payment of funds was subject to the approval of" the Minister. 
In a sense that may be the negative side. The positive side is that I believe these funds and other funds that are available through the TAB and through the Government, whether through the Department of the Capital Territory, the Department of Health or the Department of Social Security, for community use and development in the Territory ought to be rationalised. They ought to be brought under one heading and they ought to be administered through one fund so that the bodies, the interests and the projects concerned may be considered by one group of people. Needless to say that group would have to be subject to ministerial control. Funds that are raised from the public should be subject to ministerial control. In New South Wales $98m raised in this way goes into Consolidated Revenue. In the Territory the money is to be used for community purposes but it should be used under the control of a responsible Minister. In this way the basic propositions of parliamentary government will be understood and enforced. 
Therefore, the proposition I face- I do not face it in this Parliament, by the way- is one of rationalising the funds that are available in this area and making sure that they are used in the most efficient way. In doing that, I look forward to working in a very positive and creative way with the members of the new House of Assembly. I believe that if they approach their task in a non-party-political sense we will get on fine. Of course, if they believe that their aim is to try .to attack the Minister for the Capital Territory as a prelude to the next Federal election, not much love will be lost between the Assembly and the Minister. On the other hand, if there is a creative, approach by both sides to these matters, we will see created, either with the Assembly's approval or despite, a system of administering welfare and community development funds in this Territory with which I hope everybody will be very happy. It is not to the credit of a government, a house of assembly or a legislative assembly to have welfare agencies knocking at the door and wanting funds for the needy. In recent months I have referred to the Assembly the question of distributing $150,000 of that morney. I have recently received its recommendations, and I will be making announcements in relation to them. Why? I shall be doing so because there are organisations in Canberra that are in need of welfare funds. I will respond to their need in the light of the recommendations made by the old Legislative Assembly. 
I have been asked whether I would refer this Ordinance back to the new House of Assembly. I do not propose to do so because I believe that the proper course to follow is simply to endorse the grave reservations of the honourable member for Wills, to realise on them and to make sure that these funds are going to remain under ministerial control. Should a time come when an indoor recreation centre might be necessary for Canberra, it will be my hope, if not my complete expectation, that funds for such an institution will come through the funds of government and not through the funds that are provided through the poker machine ordinance. I am not suggesting that this city does not need an indoor recreation centre. I would like to see one, for instance, near the Bruce Stadium so that we may be able to develop a complex. I would like to see an olympic standard swimming pool and other facilities there so that we might have something in Canberra like I saw when I was in London at Crystal Palace where there is a complex of sporting buildings that can be used by the community on the one hand and by people who are pursuing excellence in sport on the other hand. We need such a centre in every capital city of this coun try. I would hope that we would be able to develop it in this city. 
When we do, I do not expect the funds from poker machine takings to provide it. I hope it will come through ordinary government funds. I hope that in this city those funds will be turned to community purposes and to community development. With very great respect, the Government does not accept the motion and will oppose it to the last man. 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australia Council has provided information on the number and total amount of grants paid in each Federal electorate for the 1977-78 financial year and for the period from 1 July 1978 to 15 May 1979. 
This information has been retrieved from the Australia Council's computer. The computer, however, does not hold data for the 1 976-77 financial year and is not programmed to show grants paid to individuals and organisations within each electorate. 
The Australia Council has estimated that to provide manually the information on grants paid in the 1976-77 financial year and to distinguish between grants made to individuals and those made to organisations, as requested by the honourable member, would require an extensive research exercise. I am not prepared to request the Australia Council to release scarce staff resources for this task. However, if the honourable member has a question relating to a specific grant or a small number of grants, I would be prepared to arrange for the Australia Council to provide this information. The Australia Council also has advised that: 
it is often difficult to classify grants on an electoral basis precisely, and a small error rate is unavoidable; 
b ) grants paid to individuals and organisations in a particular electorate do not necessarily benefit that electorate alone. 
The list is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present an agreement concluded on 30 March 1979 in relation to the provision of financial assistance to New South Wales for programs relating to the restoration, preservation and improvement of landscapes and buildings of special significance. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the National Women's Advisory Council entitled 'Migrant Women Speak'. The report sets out a series of recommendations based on the views of migrant women themselves. I hope that the report will promote a discussion of the needs of migrant women, and I know it will be a valuable resource for the Government concerning our implementation of the Galbally report and our efforts to assist migrant women. 
by leave- In accordance with the procedure to be followed with respect to reports tabled by Parliamentary committees, as outlined by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to this House on 25 May 1978, 1 wish to make a statement on the report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure relating to the Northern Territory forestry program.  (Quorum formed). 
This report was tabled in the House of Representatives on 2 June 1978 and there was a short but informative debate on the subject. The report was very critical of the Northern Territory forestry program and recommended that it be substantially reduced, particularly in relation to softwood plantings. 
As honourable members will know, responsibility for forestry matters passed to the Northern Territory Government on 1 July 1978 when the Territory gained self-government. The report has therefore been made available to the Northern Territory Government to assist it in the consideration of future forestry policies, and I am sure that it will find the report helpful. 
There are a few points of detail about the report that should, I feel, be mentioned. In relation to the activities of the Forestry and Timber Bureau of the Department of Primary Industry, it should be noted that, although the initial survey was undertaken by a Bureau officer in the late 1950s, the Bureau ceased to have executive responsibility for the program in July 1967. Thereafter, the Bureau's work in the Northern Territory was confined to research into the species that should be grown and the various problems that became evident. 
The Standing Committee recommended a substantial reduction in funding for the Northern Territory forestry program in 1978-79. As honourable members will be aware, expenditure priorities are now determined by the Northern Territory Executive within the limit of the funds available, including the grant from the Commonwealth. In fact, the Northern Territory Government in its 1 978-79 Budget has diverted a significant proportion of the operational expenditure of the former Forestry Branch to parks and gardens operations in Darwin, Alice Springs and other locations. I am also advised that the Northern Territory Government has taken action to incorporate the Forestry Unit into the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission in recognition of the major conservation role of forestry. 
The Committee also recommended that any future financial assistance to be provided by the Commonwealth for softwood plantation operations in the Northern Territory should be determined on the same basis as now applied to the States of Australia. The Softwood Forestry Agreement Act 1978 authorises loans to the States to cover maintenance costs of softwood plantations established with Commonwealth assistance under the three previous Acts. The Northern Territory was not a party to those agreements and does not qualify for assistance under the 1 978 Act. However, under the Memorandum of Understanding in respect of financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and a self-governing Northern Territory, it is open for the Northern Territory Government to seek a specific purpose payment for forestry from 1979-80 under similar conditions applying to the States. Under the Memorandum of Understanding such payments would be accompanied by a reduction in general purpose funds to the Northern Territory. Should further agreements be made with the States for financial assistance for softwood forestry plantations, the Northern Territory Government would have the opportunity to participate in the negotiation of those agreements. 
The Government appreciates the value of the Committee's report which, as such reports should be, was searching and, where it seemed necessary to the Committee, critical. In view of the highly technical nature of the matter, however, the then Minister for the Northern Territory considered it desirable to obtain further expert technical advice on some of the important matters raised. He therefore arranged through the Queensland Minister for Lands, Forestry and Water Resources for a technical evaluation to be undertaken by professional officers of the Queensland Department of Forestry. This report was duly received. It endorsed, with some qualification, findings of the Standing Committee regarding further research, but favoured the continuation of further plantings on Melville Island and some native forestry projects. The Government is grateful to the Queensland authorities for undertaking this task, and the report will be made available to interested parties on request. The Government believes that the two reports, although differing in certain respects, will form a valuable basis for consideration by the Northern Territory Government of its future forestry policies. Although, as I have said, the subject matter of the Standing Committee's report relates to functions and responsibilities of the Northern Territory Government, the Commonwealth Government is grateful to the Standing Committee for its analysis and recommendations. I present the following paper: 
Northern Territory Forestry Program- Ministerial Statement, 6 June 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The problem in this debate is that the members who have spoken, whose comments I value very much and with whom I do not want to get into a heated debate, are in fact members of the Federal Parliament and not members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I have not disagreed with these members at any stage because I believe it would be presumptuous of me to disagree with the findings of a committee that has gone to such a lot of trouble and has taken so much care in looking into this matter. Since 1 July last year, the Northern Territory has had self government and under that arrangement, in the practical sense, the Northern Territory Executive has control over what will happen to monies that are made available to that government the purposes of administering the Northern Territory. 
The fact is that those amounts of money are made available not in a tied way as the honourable member for Lilley well knows. They are made available as a lump sum which goes to the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly members are responsible to their electorate for the expenditure of that money. If the legislators are wise administrators they will get hold of this report and read it very carefully- as I have done- to take note of it and see what they can do. They should also take note of the report that was received from Queensland. As I said in my report to this House, the fact is that the responsibility does not lie with me, nor did it lie with my predecessor. As soon as this report was received and tabled in this place on 2 June 1978, he acted quickly. He sought a report from Queensland, because as it was his responsibility and his right he felt that it needed further investigation. 
On 1 July last year, the responsibility for these matters passed over to the Northern Territory Government. That is the complete answer to the questions asked by honourable members whose bona fides I do not dispute. Honourable members raise matters that they should have raised with the Northern Territory Government. Immediately this report was received, as I understand it, the report was sent on to that Government and I have no doubt that it took note of it. If it has not taken note of it, honourable members should tell some of the representatives in the Northern Territory to take it up in their Legislative Assembly in order to ensure that it is brought to the attention of that Government. So far as the Federal Government is concerned, the funds are not determined on the basis whether they should be put into forestry. 
It is correct. 
It is all right for the honourable member for Lilley. He is sitting there making postulating statements about these things. He was not even involved in the negotiations with the Northern Territory. He knows quite well that those amounts are worked out on the basis of an overall sum. It has nothing to do with forestry. You know quite well, my learned honourable friend, that not one cent is passed to the Northern Territory Government for the purpose of putting into- 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a formal measure to change references contained in the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962, from the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly to the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly. The Act now requires one member of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority to be a member of the Legislative Assembly who has been elected by the Legislative Assembly as its representative. Because the title of the Legislative Assembly was changed earlier this year by territorial Ordinance to the House of Assembly, the references to the Legislative Assembly must be changed accordingly. The Bill provides for commencement on 2 June 1979, the date of the election for the House of Assembly. Its effect will be to enable the member of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority representing the Legislative Assembly to continue in office until the House of Assembly elects one of its members to represent it on the Authority. 
In order to be consistent and to ensure that the term 'House of Assembly' is used, the necessary amendments are being made to two other Commonwealth statutes which presently contain references to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. These are the Ombudsman Act 1976 and the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. They are expressed to come into operation at the same time, namely 2 June 1979, the date on which the election for the House of Assembly was held. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As mentioned in my speech relating to the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Amendment Bill 1979, this Bill is a companion measure the object of which is to substitute references to the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly for those in the existing legislation to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As mentioned in my speech relating to the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Amendment Bill 1979, this Bill is a companion measure the object of which is to substitute references to the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly for those in the existing legislation to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. I am informed by my Department that: 
1975-2; 1976-0; 1977-3; 1978-3, 1979-2. 
All studies have been completed. 
) (a) 1975- 
Pannell, Kerr, Forster &amp; Co. 
Hired observers (University students). 
All other surveys were carried out by the Department. 
1975- 
ACT Visitor Study; surveys of visitors to ACT and visitor facilities and services as basis for planning and policy making. 
Survey of peak bus services, north and south routes, to check passenger loadings. Data was used to assist in preparation of new time-tables and routes. 1976- Nil. 
1977- 
Visitor Motivation Survey; to determine effect of a Sydney radio advertising campaign conducted by ACT/NSW/Snowy Mountains. 
ACT School Reciprocal Visits Survey; to determine incidence of exchange visitors between ACT and interstate schools where students visiting ACT are hosted and billeted by ACT schools. Results also used as input to estimates of non-scheduled charter coach traffic. 
Survey of bus patronage following introduction of revised route network. 
1978- 
Private Enterprise Tourism Publicity Expenditure Survey; to illustrate the extent of expenditure by private enterprise in advertising and promoting the ACT. 
Survey to determine passenger preference for bus stops in the Kingston area. 
1979- 
Promotion Evaluation Survey; to determine impact of first interstate tourist promotion conducted by ACT-Sydney shopping centre promotion held in February 1979. 
Survey of types of fares paid by passengers on particular routes. To collect data sample on type of fares used, for planning and estimating purposes. 
1975- 
This survey was commissioned by the National Capital Development Commission. The total cost of $123,500 was shared by: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No formal discussions have been held with the States on the Horton Report. It is my belief, however, that such discussions would be very worthwhile as part of a broader discussion between me and my counterparts in the States on cultural matters generally. I think it is important, however, that the Commonwealth's position on the Report should be clear before any such discussions are held. When I am in a position to hold discussions with my State counterparts, the Prime Minister will be in touch with State Premiers on the matter. 
Fruit: Trade with Canada (Question No. 3962) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to a Report on the 67th Series of Variations of the Plan of Canberra recently tabled in Parliament by the Joint Committee on the ACT. The Report contains reference to advertisements placed in the press late in 1 976 by the Department of the Capital Territory seeking submissions from persons interested in obtaining land in Canberra for development as some original activity that would encourage tourism and industry and provide employment opportunities. I am informed by my Department that an imaginative proposal in which a developer volunteered to restore and preserve the old Yarralumla Brickworks and so provide a unique tourist recreation centre was subsequently received. Following negotiations a lease was granted. 
The lease requires the old structures to be renovated and maintained by the lessee at his cost throughout the term of lease after which the ownership of the improvements will revert to the Commonwealth. An annual rent will be payable throughout the lease term and will be reviewed periodically taking into account alterations in the rental value of the complex. The developer will also pay the agreed market price for leases of adjoining residential sites. 
I am further informed that the cost to Government in providing housing sites has been estimated at $695,000 (which is far less than the figure suggested by the honourable member) and that this cost is comparable with the cost involved in servicing developments in other parts of Canberra. 
Guidelines for Travel on VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 4051) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
Government housing tenants who are unemployed qualify for a rental rebate provided they meet the income eligibility requirements. A check of the tenants who received notices to quit during the period January 1976 to March 1979 against the tenants who were receiving a rental rebate during that period would not provide accurate figures as to the number of tenants who were unemployed when they received a notice to quit. This is because: 
the incomes of both tenant and spouse are taken into account in assessing entitlement to a rental rebate. Consequently, a tenant who was unemployed but whose wife was working would not qualify for assistance if the wife's income plus any income he was receiving was above the eligibility threshold; 
b) a rental rebate for an unemployed person is generally approved for a period of 6 months after which it is reviewed. If the person has become employed by the time of the review his rental rebate is adjusted or terminated depending on the level of his family income. If a notice to quit was served on such a person between reviews the Department of the Capital Territory would not necessarily know whether or not he was still unemployed; and 
it was the practice until November 1977 to take into account the tenant's average income over 6 months as well as his current income in establishing entitlement for a rental rebate. A person who became unemployed did not become eligible for a rental rebate until his average income had fallen below the eligibility threshold. This could take considerable time, depending on the level of his income before becoming unemployed. 
In the vast majority of cases notices to quit are issued because of the failure of a tenant to meet his rent obligations. In 1976, 353 notices to quit were issued (representing 3. 1 per cent of rental stock), 474 in 1977 (4.2 per cent of stock), 562 in 1978 (5.1 per cent of stock), and 235 in the first 3 months of 1979. The total Government rental stock is some 1 1,000 houses and flats. The increases in the number of eviction notices issued were due mainly to a higher incidence of rental arrears of tenants who did not respond to requests to bring their accounts up to date. 
Bauxite and Alumina Industry in Western Australia  (Question No.4117) 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Ombudsman Amendment Bill 1979 and the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- This has been a very quiet debate. Had the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  been here to fulfil his role as shadow Minister for the Capital Territory the debate might have become vigorous. However, it was right that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  should think about retiring ages. Perhaps the honourable member should think again. He is not 70 years of age; he is 65. He admitted that tonight. He rightly said that men of 65 and beyond are quite capable of giving good service to the public. The honourable member for Wills is among those people. It is always a pleasure to take part in a debate when the honourable member is sitting in his rightful spot at the table. However, the retiring age is not a matter for us to judge; it is a matter for some other tribunal in some other place. I am sure that every honourable member wishes the honourable member for Wills well. 
The honourable member mentioned the desirability of extending the age of retirement in relation to the representative of the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly who is a member of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority. I think that this is a distinction which could not be drawn. Although the person may well be capable of fulfilling his duties, I think that it is fair to say that the same rules should apply to all members. The honourable member for Wills raised the question of whether the House of Assembly should provide from amongst its members a  chairman  for the ACT Electricity Authority. The position of  chairman  is a full time job. Therefore it may be very difficult for the House of Assembly to provide such a person. However, it is an important matter in that it suggests the involvement of the House of Assembly. Last year when the electorate decided that it preferred some form of ministerial rule to selfgovernment that was not necessarily a vote of confidence in the present Minister or incumbent of the office. It may have been a decision that indicates that the electorate preferred the system of government which has tended to rule the Capital Territory since it was first conceived. However, at the same time advisory bodies of various types have existed, I think, since 1 933. The ACT Legislative Assembly came into existence, I think, in 1974. It did so at a time when the honourable member for Wills was perhaps encouraging people to think that one day they would get selfgovernment. Perhaps that was an aspiration which he was entitled to give them because, after all, a joint committee of this Parliament had encouraged the same idea. The words 'Legislative Assembly' were chosen specifically having in mind the possibility of that body becoming a truly legislative body. When it ceased to be such there was only one thing to do so far as I was concerned, and that was to call a spade a spade. It was no longer to be a legislative assembly so we decided to call it something else. We decided to call it the ACT Assembly, but being a person who is willing to take representations into account, when members of the now House of Assembly asked me to change the name to the House of Assembly so that they could use the initials MHA, I decided so to change it. 
With the coming into existence of the House of Assembly a new era in the rule of Canberra has come about. Many people think that the body is inert and not very useful. For my own part I want to try to make it work. I am endeavouring to do that in various ways. One way of course is to retain the idea that members of the House of Assembly should represent the communitybecause they are elected by popular vote- on various organisations, committees and statutory bodies. I have continued that practice and of course the ACT Electricity Authority is one of the bodies which will have such representation. As representatives of the community members of the House of Assembly should be represented on those bodies. I have also introduced the practice- I hope it will work- of seeing the  President  of the House of Assembly after each meeting so that he can raise with me issues that the members raised and so that I might, in what I would hope would be a non-partisan manner, do my best to fulfil the wishes of the House of Assembly. 
No doubt there will be times when we disagree but we are approaching the matter in the right spirit, just as we approached a matter concerning trees that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  raised in May last. We looked at the matter and came to an agreement about it. The trees are not going to be removed, as the honourable member knows. That is the right spirit in which this capital city, which really belongs to all Australians, ought to be run; not in a party way but in a non-partisan way. I will be endeavouring, even though the House of Assembly tends to have a larger number of Labor members than Liberal members, to avoid party political attitudes. No doubt they will emerge from time to time but the responsible Minister, whatever his politics, should do his best to listen to that elected body whatever its dominant politics may be. 
Another important matter is something which I announced today, namely, that an amount of $ 1 .3m is to be granted for a number of purposes. An amount of $550,000 is to be allocated for welfare purposes, $200,000 for general community purposes and $350,000 for the arts. A very significant amount in comparison to prior grants, $200,000, is to be allocated for sports. Again, in relation to these areas, it is important that we involve the House of Assembly. I will be asking the committee of the House of Assembly to give me advice as to the disposition of the $750,000 that relates to welfare and the general community. It is a very substantial amount, much in excess of that which has previously been granted to the community for these purposes. I realise that honourable members already will be aware of a Press statement on the matter and all these facts. I mention them only to instance the desire of the Government and my desire to involve the House of Assembly in the government of the Australian Capital Territory. 
This Bill is truly in the spirit of what the Government is trying to achieve in relation to this Territory. The matters that the honourable member for Wills has raised I think have been dealt with. Matters that the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  has raised are equally significant. He spoke of the energy problem of the Capital Territory. Needless to say the Territory will have to consider whether at some stage it should not, through the ACT Electricity Authority or some other authority, seek to link up to the natural gas line that is not far removed from this city. In other words we need to have regard to the larger energy questions that are affecting this nation. Bodies such as the ACT Electricity Authority can of course be used to expand. 
We are entering a new era in the life of Canberra and in doing that we need to believe, as I have said before, that this capital belongs to all Australians. It does not belong to the Liberal Party or the Labor Party; it belong to all Australians. It ought to be developed in that spirit. In that new era I believe we have to make this city much the same as the rest of Australia. By that I mean that it should, if possible, cease to be simply a government town where 68 per cent of the work force are public servants. It ought to reflect the rest of Australia where approximately 68 per cent of workers- the figures may not be quite accurate; they are broadly correct- are employed in the private sector. In other words when Canberra is a sort of microcosm of the rest of Australia it will be a more living and real city and a city which will be truly the national capital. To say that is not a derogation of public servants. I am simply saying that our national capital ought to reflect the rest of Australia. 
Last week we set up a board- I can assure honourable members on both sides of the House that it is not window dressing- called the Canberra Development Board. It consists of men from the private sector as well as the Secretary of the Department of the Capital Territory and the Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission. It will have an executive director and staff attached to it. It is set up within the administration of the National Capital Development Commission. Some of its funds actually will be provided by the private sector. That is very significant- a government body set up by a Minister which in fact to some extent will be subsidised by the private sector. To some extent it will be aided by government funds. The purpose of this body is to try to take our national capital into this next phase in its development in which the private sector will be built up in this city, and in the adjacent city of Queanbeyan, so that this whole area may start to reflect what I describe as a microcosm of the rest of our country. 
We are building a part of Australia which is distinctively Australian. Canberra is one of Australia's greatest works of art. I say that because I believe that what man has done with the paddocks of Yarralumla since 1913 is probably Australia's greatest work of art. It represents what Australians have done in one place, albeit according to a plan, to create what they believe to be a beautiful city and one which is truly representative of the rest of Australia. It is that last aim that I hope we are now about to realise. It will not happen this year or next year but I believe the people of Canberra and the people of Australia elsewhere have to join together in this quest. 
When the National Capital Development Commission was established in 1958 I think  Sir Robert  Menzies realised that no longer could the task of building the national capital in effect be set aside; we had to get on with the job.  His  vision is the one that we see here today. The lake is his vision. True, it was Burley Griffin's vision but  Sir Robert  was the person who motivated construction of the lake. In his book there is a very interesting story about how the lake was built. Before he went overseas he had instructed that the cost of the lake be put in the Budget but when he came back he discovered that those scoundrels in the Treasury had taken it out. He went into the first Cabinet meeting after his return and he said: 'I notice, colleagues, that that amount has been taken out of the Budget figures.' He looked around and said: 'Now, do I take it that it has been struck in?' With those words, of course, the amount was struck in. The lake was included in the Budget. The lake was built and the whole concept of this city was realised in its present form. 
Perhaps  Sir Robert  saw Canberra as a government city and as a university city. Whether his vision went beyond that, I do not know. But I firmly believe that we have to have an added vision, and that is a vision of a national capital which has a large private sector, which is not predominantly government, which may be planned as we go about the development of it but which in the long run represents something with which all Australians can identify. I hope that that is the aspiration of everybody in this House tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
1 ) Maximum permissible levels of lead in petrol have not been legislatively prescribed in the ACT. 
No. 
Petrol in the ACT is generally the same as that sold in country areas of NSW, with lead level of 0.84 g/litre. 
See answer to ( I ). 
Legislation is being prepared to make Australian Design Rules 26, 27 and 27A (stage 2) applicable at the time of first registration to passenger vehicles manufactured after the dates of effect of those design rules. Similarly ADR 36 will be made applicable to heavier vehicles. The legislation will prohibit vehicular modifications which are likely to affect compliance with those design rules. 
New vehicles being registered now are required to comply with the safety related design rules. The Registrar of Motor Vehicles accepts the fitment of an approved Australian Design Rule compliance plate as evidence of compliance. Since an approved compliance plate is only issued to vehicles which comply with all of the Australian Design Rules in force new vehicles being registered in the ACT are already being required to comply with the emission rules. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill, the Judiciary Amendment Bill 1979, the Federal Court of Australia Amendment Bill 1979 and the Judges' Pensions Amendment Bill 1979, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
This has been a very happy debate because the Opposition has agreed to wish the legislation well. Of course, it is historic legislation. It is historic because, for the first time, a legislature established by this Parliament is setting up a superior court of record, the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory. Its jurisdiction in future will depend on the legislature established last year under the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act. At the same time, it is historic because judges who are appointed by different legislatures, that is, by this legislature and by the legislature of the Northern Territory will be, in effect, sitting in the same court; that is to say, the judges of the new Northern Territory Supreme Court will hold a commission from the Northern Territory Government and they will hold a commission from this Government. That is historic. 
The legislation is historic because it provides for a system of dual commissions. It has been said from time to time that this is not a good thing. The view has been expressed in Australia that we should have one system of courts, and that one of our problems has been that we have a judicial system which, to a large extent, is divided up between the State and Federal areas, lt is very desirable in Australia that so far as practicable and to the extent to which it enables the States and the Commonwealth to retain their own judicial sovereignty the court procedures and court arrangements ought to be as simple as possible and that those who do in fact go into the courts ought to be able to have their cases dealt with there regardless of whether a case finds its origin in State or Federal law or in Territory law. So this is historic for that reason. 
One might well wish the legislation well not only because it is good for the Northern Territory but also because it is very good in terms of setting a precedent for what I believe we may ultimately have to do in this country, that is, try to establish a system of courts in which the courts have the capacity, whatever their origin and whatever law devolves to deal with cases that come before them. That is a thought that has been expressed by many in the past and that, I think, has been adopted by other honourable members. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned section 118 of the Constitution. Needless to say, I will pass on his comments on that to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I noted the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's reluctance to embrace section 92 of the Constitution. It is interesting that the Australian Labor Party, while trying to give itself a new look, is still opposed to section 92. It is opposed to section 92 because it realises that it is the provision that prevents complete control by a State or Federal government in this country. On that basis - 
He might well raise the wheat acquisition but he had better wait until the final Act. I can understand the Opposition's sensitivity to section 92. It realises quite well that that is the section of the Constitution upon which private enterprise cannot be resumed by the state. I do not want to take it any further as I do not want to introduce into this debate any rancour or ill-feeling. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for the opportunity to answer a question. Members of the Opposition do not seem to be too interested in asking me questions, particularly about Canberra, for the simple reason that they know the Government is doing a good job in Canberra. As the Minister responsible for the Territory, consistent with the policies that the Government has been introducing, I have been looking at the question of energy. The fact is that the question of linking Canberra to the main natural gas pipeline has been under study. I would like to confirm that I have received a submission from the Australian Gas Light Company. Consistent with the Government's far-reaching policies on energy which we have heard about from the Minister for National Development- 
-You can laugh about the Government's policies on energy but the fact is that, except for policies of restriction, bans and limitations, authorities and prohibitions, you do not have any policies at all. That is your energy policy and the people of South Australia, what is more- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
(a) Detached houses held within the A.C.T. as at 30 March 1979: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
) (a) Detached houses held within the A.C.T.: 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of the Australia Council's activities for the year ended 30 June 1979. 
I request that the debate be extended for a moment or two. I will not keep the House long. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  raised the question- it probably will not trouble him- of the design and construction of the new and permanent parliament house. The honourable member was troubled that the competition which is being held may result in some impractical design being produced. In the course of the deliberations of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House on this matter, tremendous care was taken to ensure that what happened with the Sydney Opera House would not happen with the new and permanent parliament house. 
Next month the winners of the first stage of the competition will be announced. Five people will be selected and they will go on to the second stage. Prior to their going on to the second stage, they will be given what is called the 'stage 2' document. That is a very large document which, in effect, deals with every room and every space in the new and permanent parliament house and the inter-relationships between all those rooms and all those spaces. So, the internal design of the new and permanent parliament house is predetermined to a very large degree. When the five people who go on to the second stage deal with the matter, they will have that assistance from the Joint Select Committee because members of that Committee will have already been through that stage. 
The second aspect is that those five people are entitled to be briefed and will be briefed by what is called a steering committee. That steering committee will comprise the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate, two Ministers and two members of the Parliament. Those six people will call before them the five successful people individually. They will be at liberty to ask questions and to be briefed in relation to the matter. The whole purpose of that exercise is to overcome the problem which the honourable member for Wills raised. I can assure honourable members that the possibility of their seeing these designs is not on because that would offend the whole basis of the competition which was agreed to by the Royal Australian Institute of Architects and approved by the Joint Select Committee. It will not be possible for honourable members to view those designs until the winning design has been chosen. In the ordinary course of events, that will be about July or August of next year. 
House adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no files on this subject in the custody of the National Library of Australia. All files on the subject are in the custody of the Government's official archival repositories, that is to say, the Australian Archives and the Australian War Memorial. A very large number of files are involved. A relevant list is available upon request at each of the organisations mentioned. 
Up to date, investigations conducted have not revealed that an enquiry was conducted into any event which may have occurred at the official surrender of Japanese forces at Rabaul, which according to the official 'Instrument of Surrender of Japanese Forces in New Guinea, New Britain, New Ireland, Bougainville and Adjacent Islands', took place on HMS Glory off Rabaul at 1 1.30 hours on 6 September 1945. 
The files are still in existence and are available for inspection except a very few, closed in accordance with Government policy at the time the files were cleared for public access. Any files which were closed will be reviewed for public access when application is made. 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of the Australian National Gallery's activities for the year ended 30 June 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4299 provided by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Hansard,11  September 1979, pages 972-3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
) Stock of dwellings 
Houses-7,688; Flats-3,253; Total-10,941. 
Vacant stock 
Houses-209; Flats-202; Total-41 1. 
Numberofpeopleonwaitinglist 
Houses- 191; Flats- 172; Total-363. 
The number of dwellings vacant is in part a reflection of the considerable amount of work involved in the reletting process, which includes inspection, cleaning and maintenance of vacated dwellings before offering them to applicants on the waiting list. Of the 411 dwellings vacant at 30 June1 979, 220 were receiving or about to receive maintenance. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of the Capital Territory for 1978-79. 
I have asked to speak in this debate because I believe that a grave injustice is being done, not only to a man, but to this Parliament and, I will add, to the office of AttorneyGeneral in New South Wales. When a matter like this arises there is always an issue. The issue in this case is whether a man shall have a fair trial. That is the issue. On trial here today is not this gentleman, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  but the gentlemen opposite. When I entered this Parliament, like every other member I read the Standing Orders. One that I read said: 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal  relections  on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
In the last two years we have seen an attempt by the Opposition to flout that Standing Orders with the one object of depriving the honourable member for New England of a fair trial. From the very beginning it was quite clear that if the alleged charges against him- indeed, there were not any, but all this sort of claptrap in the newspapers, all those statements- were to be looked at, this was not the place to look at them. Honourable members opposite should understand that. 
From the very beginning the Opposition has attempted to deprive a man of a fair trial. It has brought this institution into disrepute, and the Attorney-General of New South Wales is currently bringing the high office of AttorneyGeneral into disrepute. That is an office which I will stand up for until the day I die. Let me say, and I will say it whatever it means on either side of the House, that whenever there is political interference in the administration of criminal justice there are grave dangers to our democracy. I am not going to make any accusations about the Attorney-General of New South Wales, or  Mr Finnane,  or the report; all I say is that there appears to be on the surface a strange relationship between the events that have occurred in this matter, its revelation in this Parliament, and the fact that day after day and week after week, the Opposition has attempted to bring into this Parliament innuendo of the sort that we on this side of the House have had to resist. 
An attack has been made on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I will defend the Prime Minister on this for one reason only and that is because his reason for doing this- as it has been with other Ministers- has been to ensure that the honourable member gets a fair go. I believe that everybody listening to this Parliament today shares that view. The Press, obviously, has taken the view that anybody in politics is fair game. Fair enough, I personally understand that proposition. It is a fact of life. But when a man's future is involved, when possible criminal conduct is involved, then that is the moment for a democracy to understand a basic principle; that is, a fair trial. Here today we have seen a clear illustration of it. Last night I heard the Leader of the Opposition say, in effect, on radio and television that he hoped the right honourable member for New England would be acquitted. For one moment I thought he was being decent about this and I hoped that he would continue in that way today but no chance. 
That is right, no chance. Today we have seen an attempt by successive Opposition speakers- in effect, a group of jackals wandering around a body - 
-I withdraw it,  Mr Speaker.  For the last two hours honourable members opposite have been like jackals wandering around the body of a dead minister and tearing at it. 

 - Mr Speaker, you seem to take offence at those remarks. I withdraw them. Let me say quite simply that today Opposition supporters, who through their Leader said last night on radio that all they want is for these matters to be brought out and that they hoped that the right honourable member would be acquitted, have used the same process they have been using for the last two years to deprive this man of a fair trial. That is the main issue before the House today. The main issue before us in this motion is whether a man is to have a fair trial. The other issue is whether this Parliament is to stand up for the basic principles to which it is supposed to be adhering. I have read the Standing Order in question and the fact is that it is constantly abused in Question Time. It is time that we as a Parliament came to grips with the fact that day after day when we are tearing at each other we are judged by the people of this country to be bringing this institution into disrepute. Honourable members on the Opposition side know from their experience on parliamentary committees that the worst place to consider detailed information on a man's character is in a parliamentary committee. There is no judicial atmosphere. There is no right to cross-examine and there are no specific charges. Time and time again the history of the Parliament has been to avoid this sort of situation. That is the reasoning behind that Standing Order to which I referred. It is not within the ability of this Parliament either as a whole or as individual committee members to pass judgment upon honourable members because when matters such as this arise a judicial atmosphere is required. In other words, a fair trial is required. 
Let me talk about the Attorney-General of New South Wales. First of all, let me say that there is one clear example of what type of person he is. He introduced the Evidence Act- the Act that enables him to say what evidence shall be produced in criminal proceedings in court. That is a principle against which I will fight and it is the principle which was the basis of my resignation. That Evidence Act indicates the type of 
Attorney-General that we have in New South Wales. I do not hesitate to say that what he did yesterday was an abuse of the office of AttorneyGeneral. I do not know and honourable members do not know how long he has had that report. Apparently there is nothing in the report to indicate how long he has had it. There have been rumours in the Press and we have heard rumours around this Parliament that 'it is going to come in this week or next week'. One wonders whether or not the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral had it for some weeks, but it does not much matter how long he has had it. If he got it yesterday then it is a reflection on him because at least he should have sat down and studied it. Basically he was wrong in tabling the report in that House because when that happened the right honourable member for New England was immediately deprived of a fair trial. I inform all honourable members that if the right honourable member for New England is accused, he cannot get a fair trial because already those above us have convicted this man through the Press. The very purpose of putting that report on the table was to destroy this man. Honourable members opposite have destroyed part of the great principles that are the basis of our democracy, and they will go on doing so. 

 - Mr Speaker, I shall not bother with that. I will continue with my speech and make a simple point. 
If you will only listen, the simple point is that the action of the AttorneyGeneral of New South Wales in tabling that document in the State Parliament has deprived a man in high office, a man who has served his country, of a fair trial. Anyone who may be selected to serve on a jury in New South Wales to try this matter will have his mind poisoned by what has happened in the newspapers. Time and time again there is a problem about the publication of committal proceedings. There has been controversy year after year about the Press being permitted to publish the evidence that is produced in committal proceedings. The controversy arises because it is claimed that the publication of committal proceedings prejudices the chances of a person getting a fair trial. Honourable members opposite, perhaps through the influence of their former Attorney-General Murphy, seem to have an affection for the United States Bill of Rights. They are always talking about it. One of the propositions that the United States Supreme Court has embraced is that there shall not be a televising of committal proceedings because it deprives a person of a fair trial. What happened yesterday does precisely that. Today honourable members opposite - 

 - Mr Speaker, I will not be drawn - 
-I will debate that some other day. It may be in some record, but let me say - 
Let me repeat that the United States Supreme Court has held that the televising of committal proceedings is a denial of a fair trial. The tabling of that report in the New South Wales Parliament and the continual reference by honourable members in their speeches today to the right honourable member for New England and what he is alleged to have done is poisoning the minds of people against the right honourable member for New England. It is being done through the microphones in this place. That poisoning is something which every one of us should stand against because it is contrary to the very basis of what we believe in. 
Another matter of grave concern is the fact that this inquiry by this inspector in New South Wales was a closed inquiry. Anybody who knows anything about the law who is worth his salt would realise that that inquiry could well lead to allegations which would not be substantiated by a court of criminal law. That is why the Prime Minister, in his wisdom and with the full support of his Government, his Ministers, refused to ask the right honourable member for New England to stand down. Until the time came when serious allegations were made in a public document there was no reason why the sort of innuendo in the Press or in the statements and questions of honourable members opposite should be given credence. The document was brought down yesterday; unfortunately it has been made public. The right honourable member has been deprived of a fair trial but he has done the only honourable thing that he could do. He has handed in his resignation. I, amongst others, understand what that means. 
Government members- No. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941 1 present the National Fitness in Australia report 1977-78. 
by leave- The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory report on planning in the Australian Capital Territory was tabled in both Houses on 4 April 1 979. 
The report has been under active consideration since that time by the National Capital Development Commission and within the Department of the Capital Territory. Due, however, to the wide scope of the report and the importance placed by the Government on long term implications for the development of the national capital, it has not been possible to finalise governmental consideration of the report. I hope to be in a position shortly to make known to the Parliament the Government's response to the Committee's recommendations. 
by leave- On 22 November 1978 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that the Government had decided to proceed with the design and construction of the new and permanent Parliament House and that the building would be completed in 1988 as part of the nation's bicentenary celebrations. To ensure that the project will be completed on time and within the cost budget, the Government has established the Parliament House Construction Authority to undertake and carry out the design and construction of the Parliament House. 
The Authority accepted the recommendation of the Joint Standing Committee for the New and Permanent Parliament House and the Royal Australian Institute of Architects that the most appropriate method of selecting the designer of the new Parliament House was by a two-stage architectural design competition on 7 April 1 979, the Authority announced the commencement of the competition and invited all architects registered to practice in Australia to participate. Nine hundred and sixty-one architects registered for the competition and 329 design submissions were received. The assessors for the competition were: 

 Sir John Overall:  Chairman,  Architect, Town Planner and Member of the Parliament House Construction Authority, Former Commissioner, National Capital Development Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
(I)- 
The Government has given consideration to this report and I hope to be able to make a statement on the matter shortly. 
This amendment is an example of the sorts of amendments which have been put forward by the Opposition and which probably strike at the unreality of the situation. The unreality is that the integrity of the security service depends on two people. It depends on the integrity of the Attorney-General and the DirectorGeneral, as well as the officers in the service. No amount of prescription of requirements about being satisfied with this, that and the other can get over that fact. Any security service has to depend on the integrity of those two people. Having had experience of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation over a number of years and having been involved with it as Attorney-General I can only say that that is the conclusion to which any reasonable person who has some knowledge of the security service has to come. 
If the Attorney-General has to be satisfied on reasonable grounds that other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient or would in all the circumstances be quite impracticable as a means of obtaining the information for which the warrant is proposed to be issued he would have to assume the character of a super DirectorGeneral. In other words, he would have to inquire as to all the methods that had been undertaken in relation to every warrant. He would have to say: 'Have you done this, that or something else', et cetera. A considerable investigation would be required. It cannot happen that way. The Attorney-General is not in that position. The Minister could never be in that position. If the question of a warrant is being discussed between him and the Director-General, needless to say the question of what investigations have been undertaken will inevitably be discussed. But the prescription contained in the Opposition's amendment would place the Attorney-General in an impossible position visavis the Director-General. He would never be able to satisfy that prescription unless he had almost a royal commission every time he issued a warrant. As I said, it does not happen that way. 
The Government rejects this amendment not because it wants to put the officers concerned, the Minister and the Director-General in some absolute position but because it does not meet the reality of the situation. We always come back to this simple proposition: The issue of warrants depends on the integrity of the two people I have mentioned. If one of them, particularly the Director-General, is not a person of integrity and presents to an Attorney-General a case which is not based on fact, obviously the AttorneyGeneral can be misled. The great fortune in this country is that we have never had such a Director-General. Certainly, the DirectorGeneral we have at the moment is a man of considerable capacity and integrity. His appointment was recommended by the previous Government and he was actually appointed by this Government. The same sort of bipartisan attitude needs to be adopted every time. 
-I do not think that is a fair comment. I do not think that the honourable member knows enough about the circumstances. I do not want to go into that sort of discussion. It is not fair. When the question of appointing a Director-General comes up there is a great need for a bipartisan attitude. There is a need to find a person with qualities similar to those of the present Director-General because that is the only guarantee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
The general principle followed by the Department of the Capital Territory in managing facilities and land set aside for recreational purposes is that they should be available to as many people and uses as possible, provided the basic management principles are observed. If any conflicts emerge these are usually settled by conference between the user groups. 
(a) The charges levied are variable. However, if there are special and identifiable costs involved the Department endeavours to recover these costs. 
Organised users of such areas are required under the terms and conditions of hire to indemnify the Commonwealth against all claims brought by third parties for damage or injuries incurred. 
The sub-letting of facilities is prohibited. However, community organisations may and do book facilities and arrange for coaches to run schools, clinics, et cetera, on their behalf provided they conform with the guidelines as set out in(1 
The same guidelines as set out in ( 1 ). 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information necessary to answer the honourable member's question is not readily available. To obtain the details of Commonwealth contributions towards the various forms of memorials, it would be necessary to consult with the majority of Commonwealth departments and authorities. It would also be necessary to identify the various kinds of memorials that have been established. 
In view of the resources that would be needed to gather together the information sought I am not prepared to ask my Department to carry out this work. If, however, the honourable member is prepared to indicate more precisely the information he seeks I will see whether it can be proviled. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Not to my knowledge. 
and (3) See (1) above. 
-Honourable members might be aware of the fact that last week I announced the final grants of the Sports Development Program. They totalled some $2m. In making that announcement I indicated the amounts that had been allocated to various bodies. As honourable members will be aware, it is the practice to allocate specific amounts to specific purposes, that is to say, to administration, coaching, international competition and the like. For the assistance of honourable members I would like to table the break-up of the various amounts that were in fact decided for allocation to the various bodies. If honourable members opposite were interested- they do not appear to be interested- I would be prepared to have the information incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910184_7_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910184_8_1.jpg"></graphic>

A number of aspects of that program are important. Under the Sports Development Program honourable members will be interested to know- I do not think there is much point in my talking to honourable members opposite; I think I will talk to honourable members on this side of the House - 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Australian Heritage Commission 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Several years ago, a  Mr Wixted  organised an expedition to Burma to search for the wreckage of the aircraft,  Lady Southern Cross  which disappeared in 1935 while on a flight from Britain to Australia. The Commonwealth Government was able to assist the entry of the expedition into Burma. 
I am advised that a further expedition is being planned but I have not received any requests for assistance. 
Damage to Australian Embassy in Paris  (Question No. 4781) 
-I thank the honourable member for his question. I understand that a sportsmen's hall of fame has been established in New South Wales. Those of us who come from New South Wales may feel that that is sufficient to represent Australia. However, may I say this: Ever since an Aboriginal cricket team went overseas in the 1870s, Australians abroad who have represented Australia in sport have brought, I believe, tremendous credit to this country. It would be a very good idea if in some way the efforts and the achievements of Australian sportsmen could be recognised in the new museum. I will certainly take that into account in the preparation of the principles for that museum. 
Earlier this year the Confederation of Australian Sport did seek a building from the Commonwealth for setting up a hall of fame. Approaches were made to my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services. He went through his portfolio of buildings but was not able to find one. However, he said that if he could find a building he would provide it. He went on to say that he would provide the building on a commercial basis. Should a building become available I would be very happy to speak to my colleague with a view to his being a little generous about the commercial basis. 
The Victorian Egg Board, I think last year in relation to alleged acts by Parkwood Eggs Pty Ltd, started to sell eggs from Victoria in the Australian Capital Territory. That was an unusual act and some litigation arose. I do not want to say anything further about that. 
-I thought I said that the allegation was in relation to Parkwood Eggs. However, 1 accept the correction. It related to an associated firm that was producing eggs in Griffith and selling them in Victoria. However, since that time I have reiterated again and again the Government's commitment in the Capital Territory to the hen levy quota scheme. At the same time over the last six months at least, with the full co-operation of the previous Minister for Primary Industry- I am sure that I have the full co-operation of the present Minister- I have been seeking a review of the hen quota for the Capital Territory. I believe that that quota is less than it ought to be. 
Currently my officers are in discussion with the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia for the purpose of increasing that quota. I hope- I can only hope- that the Victorian Egg Board and the Banters brothers will be able to resolve the issue that is between them, but I cannot stand by as the Minister for the Capital Territory and allow the local egg industry to fall away. At the same time, I have the job of protecting the local consumers to make sure that they can get eggs at the lowest price. I think it is fair to say that the hen levy quota that was introduced in 1966 was designed to some degree to keep the price of eggs up so that the producers could get a fair return. So I have to balance the two things. That is what I am seeking to do at the moment. I hope at the same time to introduce very soon legislation which will have the effect of imposing very heavy penalties on those who breach the hen quota in the Australian Capital Territory. So, in effect, we are moving on three fronts. But I still hope that the Victorian Egg Board and the Bartters brothers will resolve their problem outside the Australian Capital Territory and allow our industry and our hens to settle down. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957 I present the annual report of the 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department as follows: 
1 ) Of the overseas territories that come within my portfolio responsibilities only the Coral Sea islands and Ashmore and Carrier Islands do not have resident populations, i.e. populations either temporarily or permanently resident. 
The other overseas territories that come within my portfolio responsibilities had the following populations as at 30 June 1979: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that there are no laws in these territories which deal with matters coming within the scope of ILO Convention No. 65- Penal Sanctions (Indigenous Workers), 1939. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been advised by the Australia Council that since the incorporation of the Australian Opera as a Company limited by guarantee on 28 September 1970, the Musical Directors and General Managers of the Company have been as follows: 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Film Commission Act 1 975 I present the annual report of the Australian Film Commission 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled Towards a More Effective Commission- The Australian Film Commission in the 1980s'. 
Copies of this report are available from the Parliamentary Library. 
by leave- The Government has recently given consideration to the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries, known to us all as the Horton report. As a result of that consideration the Government has decided to initiate a review of the current level of library resources and facilities to identify the development that has taken place in each since 1976. An interdepartmental working group has been established to undertake the review. The working group will be representative of the Department of Home Affairs, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Education, the Department of Social Security, the Department of Science and the Environment and the National Library of Australia. This general review will have regard to the library services currently available at educational institutions and the scope for public access to these and the special library resources and facilities which are available for handicapped persons and proposals for handling any improvements necessary in this field. In its review of services to the handicapped the working group will have the advantage of the work already done by the working party on library services for the handicapped to which I will refer later in this statement. In addition to these two areas, the working group will also take account of the growth in total library resources in the States since the Horton report was presented in 1 976. 
The findings of the interdepartmental working group will enable me, in consultation with my relevant ministerial colleagues, to advise the Government as to what action it might take in the field of public libraries having regard to the recommendations of the Horton report and the Government's federalism policy. Honourable members are aware that the Horton report contained a considerable number of recommendations which have far-reaching implications for all levels of government. Moreover, the recommendations envisage heavy expenditure by the Commonwealth and the States in the realisation of the objectives of the Committee's report. In its consideration of the report, the Government has needed to weigh carefully the priorities proposed in the report with other expenditure priorities, particularly in the light of the Government's policy of expenditure restraints. 
Development of Library Services in the States 
There are indications that there have been significant developments in public library services in several States since the release of the Horton report. Some major steps have been taken to improve library services and, in some cases, particular attention has been given to deficiencies noted in the Horton report. One major step in the development of library services in the States has been the consideration and, in some cases, the implementation of development programs extending over a period of years. In this regard, Tasmania has had under way a regional development program since 1965. South Australia has recently embarked on an eight year program while the New South Wales Library Council has a draft plan for development under consideration. A further indication of the development of public library services in the States is the steady increase in expenditure by State governments and local authorities on the provision of library services. In most States there is a continuing trend towards varying forms of regionalisation of public library services as being the most costeffective way of rationalising library resources and providing services as widely as possible. Western Australia is the latest State to establish a system of library regions, and the last of the six regions planned by Tasmania was established early this year. 
Investigation and implementation of other cooperative library ventures such as joint schoolcollegecommunity libraries continues and recent developments indicate that the concept of the library as an information and referral centre for the community is gaining momentum. One initiative in this area is the scheme of the Library Board of Western Australia of appointing librarians as community information officers to be attached to local government authorities to establish community information centres within the public library system. 
Considerable progress has been made in library automation systems. Of particular note are Technilib, which is an expanding co-operative venture established in 1975 to provide centralised computer-based technical services for municipal libraries in Victoria; and Oracle, the automation system of the Library Board of Queensland, the first stage of which is nearing completion. These systems draw heavily on the National Library's Australian Machine Readable Cataloguing Record Service which makes available machine readable cataloguing records for Australian libraries. It is an example of the ways in which State and public libraries are making greater demands on the services of the National Library. Over the last four years the Library has tested and evaluated several on-line computer systems in order to identify the one which will enable it to increase the productivity of its own staff in cataloguing and other library processes, and also to serve as the basis for an on-line national bibliographical service. The Director-General of the National Library has recently advised me that the Library has now selected, and plans to introduce, a system that will improve the cost-effectiveness of its existing operations and services. This system will also be capable of providing a nation-wide on-line shared cataloguing service. 
Library Services for the Handicapped 
The Working Party on Library Services for the Handicapped has been asked to examine the special library resources and facilities which are available for handicapped persons and proposals for handling any improvements which may be considered necessary. In recent years a great deal of attention has been given to the needs of the handicapped in the field of library services. In 1977, on the initiative of the then Minister for Administrative Services and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the National Library of Australia established the Working Party on Library Services for the Handicapped. The aim of the Working Party was to investigate and recommend on library services for the handicapped including the possibility of mounting a national conference or seminar of organisations interested in the subject. As a first step in the development of library services for the handicapped, in 1977 and 1978 the National Library conducted surveys of braille and talking book collections and of library services for the handicapped in Australia. This survey was completed in 1978 and subsequently the Library published the results of its survey. 
In August 1978 the National Library, in association with the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped, sponsored the National Consultative Seminar on Library Services for the Handicapped. The seminar was important in two ways: Firstly, it provided the Working Party with an opportunity to ascertain at first hand the views of people and organisations directly concerned with Library services for the handicapped; and secondly, for the first time in Australia a wide cross-section of handicapped people, representative of libraries, voluntary agencies and government instrumentalities and others interested in the problems met and exchanged information and experiences. The National Seminar requested the National Library to assume the following responsibilities: 
to construct and maintain a National Union Catalogue to list library materials used by handicapped people held in Australian libraries in order to avoid unnecessary overlap and make maximum use of existing resources; 
to identify the Australian and other materials which needed to be produced in Australia in a form accessible to the handicapped and to co-ordinate the production program; 
to undertake the functions of a clearing house to encourage national and international co-operation in copying of printed materials into braille or audio forms and to co-ordinate the obtaining of copyright permissions; 
to act as a centre for international inter-library loans of library materials for handicapped people in Australia. 
In April this year the Working Party on Library Services for the Handicapped presented its report to the Director-General of the National Library. The report which has been published by the Library contains 18 significant recommendations aimed at initiating the development of library services for the handicapped. The Council of the National Library has accepted in principle the recommendations made in the report. The recommendations identified by the Council as priorities are in the course of implementation. 
-! thank the honourable member for his question, which I might say was well and truly without notice. I am very conscious, and have been for some months- indeed, for several years - 
-I will think of something for the honourable member. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Consumer Affairs Ordinance 1973 I present the annual report of the Consumer Affairs Council and the Consumer Affairs Bureau 1978-79. 
Motion ( by  Mr Viner)-  by leave- agreed to: 
1 ) That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of the report of the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Council and the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Bureau for the year 1978-79; and 
That the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, with your indulgence, I inform honourable members that I do have a limited number of copies of the document relating to the Australian Film Commission that I tabled yesterday. If honourable members come to my office or make application, I will give them a copy. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister for National Development of 6 November 1979 to Question 4328, page 2657, House of Representatives  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The cost of the proposal would depend on the number of regional associations and the salary level of the curators appointed. If no more than forty associations were established as suggested in the report 'Museums in Australia 1975' the estimated minimum salary cost of providing fulltime professional curators, Grade 1 would be $630,000 in a financial year. 
The Government's policy of expenditure restraint would be a consideration. The responsibility for museums traditionally rests with the States although the manner by which specialised advice and expertise might be provided to smaller museums in the future is a matter I would be willing to discuss with relevant State Ministers. 
Pursuant to section 38 of the Australia Council Act I present the annual report of the Australia Council 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report of the Department of Home Affairs 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 33 (4) of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962 I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the Parliament House architectural competition second stage document. Copies of the document are available for reference in the Parliamentary Library and in the Table Office. A copy of the document will be made available to honourable members on request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4328 provided by the Minister for National Development  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, pages 2657-8). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by the National Capital Development Commission as follows: 
and (2) The individuals and organisations who responded to the discussion papers on urban change might well have assumed that their correspondence would be confidential and their anonymity protected. In these circumstances the view is taken that the details should not be provided. 
The surveys sought comments rather than answers to specific questions, and the responses received were quite diverse. It has not been possible to quantify the results, but the public reaction can be summarised as follows: 1975 public consultation- Public response was very small, and the general reaction was in favour of maintaining the status quo. A commonly expressed concern related to the impact on local amenity of increasing the density of residential development and argued strongly against the use of residential blocks for commercial purposes. 1976-77 public consultation- The response was diverse, indicating that the concept of urban change was not well understood, but people were concerned with any changes in their own immediate area. There was qualified support for increasing residential densities, providing it was controlled and the residents were consulted. Of the responses which particularly mention the use of residential leases for medical practitioners etc, most were in favour of such uses. Other forms of commercial use in residential areas were generally not supported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) $2.15m; (b) $2.4m; (c) $2.52m; (d) $2.8m. 
I am advised by the Australia Council that, as the Australian Opera works on a calendar year basis, the Australia Council, in making financial year grants to the Opera, earmarks each grant for the following calendar year. 
(a) to (f) I am informed that the Australian Opera does not have available the detailed breakdown of its salary bill sought by the honourable member. It has, however, provided the Australia Council with the following breakdown of its proposed expenditure on salaries and related costs for the 1980 calendar year: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) It is proposed to commemorate the occasion with 500 bronze medallions which will cost no more than $12,000. (b) The Government approved a recommendation of the Chief Justice of Australia. This matter was not considered by the Historic Memorials Committee. 
The Historic Memorials Committee comprises the Prime Minister  (Chairman), the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Vice President of the Executive Council, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. The Committee was established for the purpose of securing portraits of distinguished Australians and paintings recording special events connected with the Commonwealth Parliament. 
At this stage I am not aware of those companies which have submitted applications for the construction of this hotel complex. I have not yet received a report in relation to this subject. I can only say that the matters that the honourable member has raised inferentially will be taken into account. 
In 1974-75 the Labor Government thought we were to have an El Dorado. It increased the Public Service by 100,000, and private sector employment fell by 150,000. 1 remind honourable members that at the same time public expenditure rose by about 50 per cent. The honourable member wants to talk about an El Dorado. That was the El Dorado that Australians have learned about in the meantime. It is the same El Dorado that the Leader of the Opposition is now preaching around the country. 
The  Canberra Times is  to be complimented for bringing  Mr Shelby  Dill from Colorado Springs. 
It has given the business community in Canberra the opportunity to focus on what is obviously the policy to adopt for the future of the national capital. I hope it is something about which not only the honourable member who asked the question is concerned but also all honourable members opposite are concerned. I hope that Opposition members are proud of their national capital and want to see it develop. 
Honourable members would have noticed in the financial section of the  Age  yesterday a full page advertisement on attracting business to Canberra. I have made it clear that the Government wants to attract the private sector to Canberra to make this city grow and, in the process, provide jobs for young people and others who are presently unemployed. I remind those who talk about unemployment in Canberra that Canberra has the lowest unemployment figures in Australia. Opposition members might as well bear the fact well and truly in mind. 
Earlier in the day mention was made of applications to construct an international hotel on the site alongside the Lakeside Hotel. If that hotel goes ahead it will involve private sector investment exceeding, I should imagine, $60m. If development of the Jolimont site goes ahead- that is to be determined in the next couple of months- it will involve private sector development in excess of $40m or $50m. It may not be good news for the honourable member for Fraser, but this time next year I hope he will find at least $100m of investment going ahead in the national capital as a result of these two projects. In addition, he will know that the Government has committed itself to very considerable expenditure in the national capital, including expenditure on the new and permanent Parliament House, in the next eight to 10 years. This Government is building the national capital's major buildings. This generation of Australians is building those buildings. The Opposition ought to pay attention to that fact. 
The efforts of Jobless Action in relation to a cooperative in the Ainslie bus depot are being very carefully considered. The Government is having expressed to it by the unions and others in the community some worries about the project. The honourable gentleman might as well know that and understand that it is not exactly supported by those who might be thought to be on his side of politics. But the matter is under consideration. It will be given very careful consideration and I will make an announcement after I have inspected the Ainslie bus depot. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the National Gallery Act 1 975 1 present the report of the Australian National Gallery 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 23 (2) of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962 1 present the annual report of the Australian War Memorial 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960 I present the annual report of the National Library of Australia 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Film and Television School Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Australian Film and Television School 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report by the National Women's Advisory Council 1979 entitled: 'More than a Token Gesture'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Police 1979. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Darwin Reconstruction Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission 1977-78. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930 I present a statement of receipts and expenditure by the Commonwealth in the administration and development of the Territory 1979. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives approves of the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs B. S. Nicholls, J. F. Morgan and F. W. Statham, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their Report laid before the House of Representatives on 1 3 November 1979, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the Report, and indicated in the maps referred to therein, be adopted, except that the name of the Division suggested by the Commissioners for indentification purposes to be named Canning be named O'Connor and that the name of the Division suggested to be named Roe be named Canning. 
The Government has considered the report of the distribution commissioners for Western Australia. It is the view of the Government that the report should be adopted insofar as the boundaries are concerned but that it would be appropriate to adopt different names for two of the proposed divisions. I take the opportunity to thank the three distribution commissioners for Western Australia. They have done their job expeditiously. The Government believes that they have done it fairly. 
by leave- On 9 October I indicated to the House that I would shortly be in a position to make known the Government's response to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory relating to planning procedures and processes in the Australian Capital Territory. This report was tabled in both Houses on 4 April 1979. The report of the Committee is wideranging and thorough and it deals with a matter of importance for the future direction of the Australian Capital Territory. I congratulate the Committee on the report. The subject matter of the inquiry has presented to the Committee some challenging issues which it has met forthrightly and, I venture to say, wisely. It has made some 25 recommendations and I am pleased to announce that the Government has found only 5 of these unacceptable. It would be a formidable task for me to detail the Government's attitude in relation to the recommendations and accordingly I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a summary of the recommendations and the Government's proposals in relation to them. 
Leave granted. 
Summary of Recommendations of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the A.C.T. relating to Planning Procedures and Processes and Government's Response Thereto 
LEASEHOLD PROVISIONS 
Recommendation Al "Lease purpose clauses continue to be the basis of development control in the Australian Capital Territory. " 
Supported. This is basic to the leasehold system of land tenure in use in the Territory. 
Recommendation A2 (a) "Applications under section 10 of the City Area Leases Ordinance for temporary non-conforming use by bona fide residents should be made to the Department of the Capital Territory rather than the Minister as at present. " 
Supported Applications are presently received by the Department and handled under authority delegated by the Minister except in contentious cases where, because no right of appeal is available from a decision, the matter is placed before the Minister. 
Recommendation A2 (b) "Section 1 lA of the City Area Leases Ordinance should continue to be the provision under which a land use change is sought." 
Supported but amendment of the legislation to implement new arrangements is required. 
Recommendation A2 (c) "Applications to vary lease clauses under section 1 lA of the City Area Leases Ordinance should be made to the Department of the Capital Territory rather than the Supreme Court." 
Supported. Amendments to the City Area Leases Ordinance will stipulate that a variation which conflicts with N.C.D.C. Policy cannot be granted by the Department. A right of appeal from the applicant or third parties against the Department's decision will be available. Amendment of the City Area Leases Ordinance is required. 
Recommendation A2 (d) "Section 11a of the City Area Leases Ordinance be amended to ensure the full recovery by the Commonwealth of any increment arising from change of land use. ' ' 
Not supported. At present a charge is payable equal to half the increment in added value less $1,500. The 50:50 sharing of the increment in value was adopted in 1971 after lengthy debate inside the Department and with private enterprise bodies and is seen as fair to both parties. 
The Joint Committee's recommendation does not take account of the higher risk to investors in most redevelopment proposals. Adoption of the recommendation would constitute an unnecessary disincentive at a time when Canberra is in need of development incentives. 
No change to present arrangements is proposed. 
Recommendation A2 (e) "There should be a right of appeal by both the applicant and third parties against decisions made on these applications." 
See Recommendations A2 (c). 
Supported. In the case of applications under section 1 1  a  of the City Area Leases Ordinance it will be necessary to ensure that variations cannot be granted in cases where there is a conflict with planning policy. 
Recommendation A3 "Section 9a of the City Area Leases Ordinance be amended to provide that: 
the Minister or the Department of the Capital Territory acting on his delegation should serve on a person in contravention of a lease, notice of intention to enforce the lease provision unless the illegal use is terminated within a specified time. 
failure to comply with the notice of intention would then become the basis for ensuing prosecution. 
substantial fines be the penalty for the offence. 
continued failure to comply should lead to termination of the lease under section 22 of the Ordinance. " 
Not supported. The current provision was incorporated into the legislation in 1977 after considerable controversy. It was put in its present form at the insistence of the Senate Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. The Senate Committee opposed previous arrangements which invoked criminal sanctions on the grounds that the basis of land use control in the A.C.T. is contractual and that civil procedures are the appropriate means for enforcement. 
Acceptance of the Joint Committee's recommendation would again bring the issue under criminal jurisdiction and lead to possible further conflict with the Senate Committee. 
The legislation is working effectively and unless problems arise in future no change to the present legislation is proposed. 
Recommendation A4 "Section 10 of the City Area Leases Ordinance be enforced both as to duration and the need to be a bona fide resident." 
Supported. This is the present practice. 
Recommendation A5 "A land use tribunal be established." 
The concept of appeals in relation to land use is supported in principle. It is proposed to provide a right of appeal on the following land use and development control decisions made under A.C.T. Ordinances: 
Decisions of the Department in respect of applications made by bona fide residents under section 10 of the City Area Leases Ordinance for approval to conduct a profession trade or occupation from a dwelling. 
Decisions of the Department in respect of applications for a variation of purpose of lease. 
Decisions of the Department in cases where using the powers contained in a covenant of lease, approval to construct or alter a building was withheld. 
Decisions of the National Capital Development Commission in respect of applications to refuse to grant approval of a building proposal in respect of siting and external design and decisions granting approval subject to the imposition of conditions. 
Decisions of the Building Controller under the Building Ordinance related to: refusal to approve building plans and specifications; refusal to grant or cancellation of a builder's licence; issue of a stopwork or demolition order. 
Amendment to Buildings (Design and Siting) Ordinance, Building Ordinance and City Area Leases Ordinance will be required. Consideration is currently being given as to what is the most appropriate avenue of appeal. 
The implementation of the proposals which have been accepted is, of course, the next step in the process. Some of the proposals can be put into effect immediately and relatively easily. Some have already been put into effect. Others involve the amendment of Australian Capital Territory ordinances and the National Capital Development Commission Act. 
Some will have administrative and resource implications. The Parliament may nevertheless be assured that the Government, within its capacity, will work speedily towards the implementation of the recommendations to which it has agreed. It looks forward to a continuing fruitful relationship with the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. I present the following paper: 
Report on planning in the Australian Capital TerritoryGovernment response- Ministerial Statement, 2 1 November 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Peacock)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to deal with an answer to a question which I gave this morning. I feel I should correct part of that answer. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
-There has been a little wagering this morning about Bob Hawke. My ministerial colleague said that he would put his money on Bob Hawke. I will not put my money on Bob Hawke for the simple reason that the Opposition will screw him up just as it has screwed up everything else. It will destroy his idealism. Members of the Opposition front bench now- this is partly what this is all about- are men of ambition, men such as my friend, Lionel Bowen, Mick Young - 
And the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  All of them are contenders for the seat occupied by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  and they have the strange belief that at some time they might occupy the seat of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I tell them now that that will not happen. This is a miserable attempt by the Leader of the Opposition to defend the weak position in which he now finds himself, both inside the Labor Party and also in the wider electorate. This is an attempt to cover up his own inefficiency as a leader and his own ineffectiveness. That is partly what this matter is about. The rest of what it is about is this: Quite clearly, in all probability there is somebody in the Labor Party who handed over some documents which in substance are contained in the document the subject of this debate. 
The point I want to make is simply that when any reasonable minded person, including members of the Press- at this stage they can be reasonable minded- looks at the facts as I will cover them, he will conclude that somehow, somewhere, somebody who is associated with the Labor Party has handed over these documents. I have very little doubt that that is what has happened. In this Parliament and in the Press, documents are being quoted continuously that have been leaked from one source or another. Leaking is a despicable act. It is as despicable in the Labor Party as it can be in our party. The Opposition should face up to the fact that that is the real issue. Let us see what the facts are. This document - 
The document that was tabled, which is headed - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 


 - Mr Speaker, do I have to be interrupted? 
-I will take it as the natural course of events. 
For the benefit of honourable members, I remind them of what I understand my colleague said earlier, that is, that the document which has been tabled- is it here? Where is the document that was tabled? 
-Who has the document? Where is the document? 
Government members- He has stolen it. 
Even in the Parliament somebody takes the document out. 
-I remind honourable members that the document has a frontispiece, if I can call it that, which admittedly was prepared and typed by the Liberal Party secretariat. There are headings to a number of sections on the next page, two of which state: 'ALP Themes' and Pre-Campaign and Campaign Proper'. There are headings to other sections of this document. It is not in dispute that those headings were put in the document by the Liberal Party. What is clear, however, is that, apart from that, the contents of this document, which has been tabled and is the subject of debate, were in the hands of the Liberal Party secretariat as long ago as early October. I rely on Tony Eggleton for that information, and I stand on his word. The contents of this document have been in the hands of the Liberal Party secretariat since early October. That gives the complete lie to the assertions that have been made in this House today. 

 Honourable members interjecting- 

The contents of the document have been in the hands of the Liberal Party Secretariat since early October. 
-I did not want to repeat what I was saying, but it really is the basis of this whole debate. The substance of this document, which is the subject of the censure motion today, has been in the possession of the Liberal Party secretariat, according to Tony Eggleton, since early October. There is no question that the Opposition admits that the substance of this document- that is to say, the various parts of itcomes from strategy documents prepared by or for the Labor Party. In other words, it came out of its own camp. There is no question about that. 
Members of the Opposition are really in a bind. On the one hand, they want to say that we stole the document out of a safe on the night of 12 November, when apparently there were five other burglaries involving the pinching of cash in the same building and nine others in the same street, according to the information we have been given. Opposition members say that we pinched the document, yet in the next argument they say: ' It is not our document'. What are they talking about? They should make up their minds whether it is their document or not. Of course, it comes out of their stable. 
On 20 November, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs said: 
The Australian Labor Party strategy papers are most revealing in what they say - 
Later, on 21 November, as recorded on page  3219 of Hansard - 
It does not matter,  Mr Speaker. 
Opposition members go on with that sort of thing. It just goes over my shoulder. It will not affect me; it will not touch me. I do not take any notice of it in here or outside. So they should give up. In this House on 2 1 November the Leader of the Opposition stated: 
First of all, there is no David Combe report. There are strategy papers which have been drawn together by the Labor Party. Those papers have not been collated by the Labor Party- I stress that- into a compendious document such as the Minister quoted from yesterday. 
Then he went on. It is quite obvious from those two parts of the  Hansard  record that the document about which we are talking, which honourable members opposite say has been stolen from a safe, is made up of material that has come out of the Labor Party stable. It has come out because somebody in the Labor Party stable has been disloyal. That is how it has come out, just as documents are leaked out of the Public Service and out of the Liberal Party because people are disloyal. Honourable members opposite are entitled to feel upset about that, but they should not use it as a basis for attacking this Government. 
Really, I felt sorry for the Leader of the Opposition. He was a policeman. It is no wonder that he left the force. He thinks there are self-respecting burglars. I was awakened, I think it was earlier this year, by a burglar. I did not find him self-respecting. I have seen burglars from time to time, in court and outside, but never have I seen a self-respecting burglar. No doubt that is why the Leader of the Opposition left the police force. But what a pity he did not continue with his law course. If he had done so he would not have attempted to put his brief before this Parliament today. It is a baseless, unfounded brief. It has no substance. What is right at the heart of this matter is the fact that whether this document belongs to the Labor Party or to its advisers- it has under a heading which relates to the swinging voter- it constitutes what is basically a slander on the average Australian. No wonder Opposition members are embarrassed. It also throws grave and serious doubt on the capacity of the Leader of the Opposition. 
We can understand Opposition members being embarrassed when they read in this document that the swinging voter is vaguely interested in what the Leader of the Australian Labor Party stands for but so far does not have a clue. Of course, that is an admission that the Leader of the Opposition is not getting through to the average Australian, that he is having no effect on the average Australian. No wonder honourable members opposite feel embarrassed. No wonder, on what we understand will be the last day of this session of Parliament, they are driven to desperation to bring forward a motion such as this in this way. 
The document states: 
Remember that contrary to the popular myth, they are not discerning upper middle class professionals who carefully reason through their vote. They are basically ignorant and indifferent about politics. They vote on instinct for superficial, ill informed and generally selfish reasons. 
In other words, these people who Opposition members think will put them into power are not interested in what Mick Young wrote in his book. They are not interested in unemployment; they are not interested in anything but themselves; they are ill-informed; they are generally selfish. They are the sorts of people to whom the Labor Party, according to its own advisers, is trying to appeal. This is a slander on the average Australian. I would like to believe that the average Australian is interested, that the swinging voter is interested in unemployment and in all the big issues that face us. This document is completely and utterly an embarrassment to the Labor Party. 
I would like to say to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  that I have too much respect for him to make any allegation against him to the effect that he stole a document or would do anything that was improper, in relation to the procedures of this House, of that character. I simply sought the document and I was told by the  Clerk  at the table that it had been given to the honourable member for Reid. I then assumed that the document must have been with the honourable member and then - 
Yes, I did because he - 
-Perhaps I had better - 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-Mr  Speaker,  I rise only to object to the word that you have just usedsensitive'. I am not sensitive at all. 

 Government members interjecting- 


 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth-Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory)- There is only one question that arises out of what the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said; that is, why the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  did not clarify the matter as it was alleged. 
Pursuant to section 38 ( 1 ) of the Parliament House Construction Authority Act 1979 I present the first annual report of the Parliament House Construction Authority 1979. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for consideration and report: Construction of Holsworthy Army Development, Stage 2. 
The proposal is for the provision of permanent working facilities and associated engineering services for Army units at Holsworthy. The works proposed include: Headquarters, administrative, storage and workshop facilities and gun parks for the 8/ 12th Medium Regiment; military instruction block; warehouse and administrative facilities for 1 Field Supply Company, including covered vehicle shelters; administrative, storage and workshop facilities for 104 Signals Squadron, including covered vehicle shelters; storage facilities for 2 Reconnaissance Regiment; barracks administration building; task force headquarters; and parade ground, roads and car parks. The estimated cost of the proposal at October 1979 prices is $ 10.3m. I table drawings of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House has a general debate covering this Bill and the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) The question relates to responsibilities carried out by various Commonwealth Departments from 1967 to 30 June 1978 including the Departments of the Interior, Northern Territory and Northern Australia. The Northern Territory Government assumed responsibility for these matters on 1 July 1978 and the operational records relating to them were passed to that Government. 
Consequently, the information required is not available in an accessible form and my Department's Darwin Office does not have the resources to retrieve and compile this information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The question relates to responsibilities carried out by various Commonwealth Departments from 1970 to 30 June 1978 including the Departments of the Interior, Northern Territory and Northern Australia. The Northern Territory Government assumed responsibility for these matters on 1 July 1978 and the operational records relating to them were passed to that Government. 
Consequently, the information required is not available in an accessible form and my Department 's Darwin Office does not have the resources to retrieve and compile this information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The matter raised in this question relates to the administration by the Northern Territory Government of the relevant Northern Territory legislation for which responsibility passed to that Government on I July 1978. It is therefore entirely a matter for that Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ACT hen quota is the subject of current and active negotiations with the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. The Council has indicated its co-operation in seeking to reach agreement on a revised quota for the Territory within the next few days. 
I am currently giving careful consideration to the allocation of an expected increase in the current hen quota but I have not yet decided what mechanism and criteria will be employed. 
I will ensure that the information sought by the honourable member is provided to him as soon as I am in a position to do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Ministerial Statement on Assistance to Public Libraries I made on 13 November 1979  (Hansard,  13 November 1979, pages 2887 to 2889). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
Not all the Departments listed use the same definitions of 'community', 'welfare', 'arts' and 'sports'. Hence comparisons between Departments must be made by a detailed examination of the particular grants in each case. Some Departments (e.g. Home Affairs) provide assistance to groups which are not strictly locally based ACT community groups. 
Figures are provided for the following Departments: 
Administrative Services 
Attorney-General's 
Capital Territory 
Education 
Employment and Youth Affairs 
Health 
Home Affairs 
Immigration and Ethnic Affairs 
Social Security. 
A table which summarises the grants provided by each Department is shown below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Ministerial Statement on Assistance to Public Libraries I made on 13 November 1979(Hansard, 13 November 1979, pages 2887-8). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed by my Department that: 
(a) The original rough designs were prepared by members of the Christmas Island Philatelic Advisory Committee (Christmas Island Administration). The artwork was prepared by Harrison's, an English stamp printing firm commissioned by Crown Agent's, London, who acted for the Christmas Island Administration in this issue. 
b ) A member of the Christmas Island Philatelic Advisory Committee wrote the captions. 
Crown Agents were asked specifically to ensure that all titles and academic qualifications used were correct and to arrange alterations with the printers, where necessary. 
and (3) The initials were intended to stand for Commander of the Royal Victorian Order. The correct initials are C.V.O. 
The initials R.N. were intended to identify the personage as a member of the Royal Navy. Their inclusion was not, however, formally correct 
5 ) Yes, to both parts of the question. 
See(4)above. 
The decorations were included to show the distinguished careers of these men. 
The Admiral of the Fleet on the 8c stamp,  Sir William  Henry May, was a Captain when he visited Christmas Island and was so depicted by the artist. Admiral Pelham Aldrich, whose portrait appears on the 5c stamp, was also a Captain when he visited Christmas Island. It is understood, however, that the last available portrait of him shows him in his Admiral's uniform and this portrait was used for the stamp. 
