My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen the headlines this morning in the country's national daily, the  Australian,  which show that the Sydney Stock Exchange index has soared to a record 4!4-year high? Does the Minister interpret this as a massive vote of confidence by the Australian community in the Budget and in the Budget strategies? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the fact that section 26E of the Income Tax Act is being reviewed, will the Minister take all reasonable steps to ensure that parity is maintained between all employees receiving subsidised housing from their employers because in Queensland at the present time employees in the sugar industry are financially disadvantaged with respect to other industrial employees in a similar category? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Since air fares are so excessively high both in and out of Australia and since the Government has some part in approving what those fares shall be, can the Minister proffer some explanation as to why the introductory program for the standby scheme operated by the domestic airlines was restricted to the short haul and, incidentally, low cost routes between Melbourne, Sydney and Tasmania rather than the long haul routes between Queensland or Western Australia and the southern States where the 40 per cent reduction would have been of real benefit and meaning to the Australian community? 

 -Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Three times during  Senator Mulvihill  's speech he misquoted what I said during Question Time today. For the record I state that I made no mention of, let alone cast any reflection upon, the waterside workers of Australia in relation to the sugar industry. I made no mention of, let alone cast any reflection upon, the national aspirations of Papua New Guinea. My question was concerned purely with the commercial elements involved in the sale of sugar to the European Economic Community, which was subject to an export subsidy of approximately $350 per tonne. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the statement made this morning by  Mr Anthony  that Australia was going to appeal under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade against the European Economic Community's placing an export subsidy of $350 a ton on sugar and thereby undercutting both the Australian and world price by some $70 a ton. As the EEC has sold 3,000 tons of sugar to Papua New Guinea, out of an annual market of approximately 20,000 tons formerly supplied from Australia, would the Minister consider advising the Papua New Guinea Government that in view of the high level of Australian financial aid to Papua New Guinea, running at $233. 5m this year, it would not be too much to expect that where goods could be supplied at world pricing parity preference should be given to Australian suppliers? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the Treasury analysis of this year's Budget shows that there will be a decrease of 0.3 per cent in the total national return from personal income tax in real terms? Can he comment on the further benefit accruing from the abolition of the compulsory  2¥i  percent health levy? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1 978: 
What companies and organisations other than the Department of Transport and local authorities have incurred capital expenditure for the sealing of runways and other airport development in Australia. 
When was such expenditure incurred. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tranport, upon notice, on 12 September 1 978: 
How many passengers used the airports at: (a) Cairns; (b) Townsville; (c) Mackay; (d) Rockhampton; (e) Brisbane; and (f) Gold Coast, during the period 1 September 1977 to 31 August 1978. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Did the Minister receive in his mail this morning a release from the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development listing government funding for sport in 1978-79? How was the distribution of funds arrived at for the various sports and pseudo sports? Having thought about the list and, even allowing for the fact that international meetings are involved in some cases, the gross disparity in the sums awarded to the various sports demands some explanation. How is it that such a technically advanced and high cost sport such as that represented by the Gliding Federation of Australia is entitled to only $1,500; yet the Basketball Association will get nearly $50,000 and the Trampoline Association which, at its most charitable, could only be described as a pastime activity, will get $ 1 5,750? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of recent questions in this place on interest rates, employment, the balance of payments and the construction industry, I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the latest  Round-up of Economic Statistics- that  for October 1978- issued by the Treasury. 
If so, could the Minister inform the Senate of the latest indicators in these vital areas of the economy? 
I present the following petition from 25 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Transport confirm that the statement released by the Minister for Transport concerning air fares to Europe is of a preliminary nature and is not a definitive statement? Will he also confirm that negotiations will be continued to provide a genuinely lower normal fare structure, albeit with lower standards of comfort but available on a practical basis free from unreal, unnecessary and irritating conditions, such as extended advance payment procedures? 
I present the following petition from 246 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clincs to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
-Will the Minister representing the Treasurer consider redesigning the coin size and modifying the denominations of the Australian currency as the effects of inflation and the growth of coin operated machines make some revision imperative, especially in relation to the most commonly used 20c coin? It could well be replaced by a 25c coin, only four of which would be required for an outlay of $ 1 , at least one third the size of the present 20c coin? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. I like to live by the doctrine of 'don't complain and don't explain', but something that  Senator Georges  said provokes me at the moment. What he said was substantially correct. Yesterday, as the sun was setting, two gentlemen arrived in my office with three chairs, my typist's desks and a small occasional table- out of an entitlement of about three desks and two tables. I am very grateful to have them after 4Vi months. I would hope that by Christmas time I would have the whole of my office entitlement. I thank honourable senators very much. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the Minister's answer to  Senator Martin's  question last week about the Australian Broadcasting Commission transmitting sporting events from commercial channels to Western Queensland and the implication in his answer that it would cost the ABC money to buy the rights to some of these programs, I ask: Should not all sections of the Australian community be treated equally and therefore should not funds be distributed so that equal access to the various forms of the media can be provided for all the people of Australia? Specifically, why cannot adequate program funds be provided in the electorates of Maranoa, Kennedy and Leichhardt before funds are provided for capital cities such as Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne for special interest and ethnic groups who already have an adequate media access? 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I take this opportunity of the debate on the Superannuation Amendment Bill to make my initial contribution in this chamber.  Mr President,  it has been a pleasure to serve under your Presidency. I congratulate you on your election to the highest office in the Senate and record my admiration for the wisdom and firmness that you have shown as  President.  I wish to congratulate  Senator Scott  on his election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy President  of the chamber. The Senate has chosen well in both these appointments. I would like to thank the officers of this chamber for the help they have given to a new senator. It has been much appreciated. 
I take the place in the Senate of former  Senator Ian  Wood, who served for 29 years. I need not speak of his achievements as a Queenslander, as a Liberal and as an Australian  Senator, for  those achievements are written into the history of this nation. Though born of a different generation. I pray that I possess the courage to do my duty in the way that former  Senator Wood  so unswervingly did his. I must record my thanks to the Liberals in Queensland for the support they gave me through the election campaign. It is an honour to serve that great State as one of its senators and I will do my duty for all the people of Queensland to the limit of my ability. 
We are all honoured to serve in the Senate for without the Senate there would be no Australian nation. The four smaller sovereign States would never have combined under the hegemony of numbers of the two larger States to form the Commonwealth in 190 1 but for the protection of the Senate with its equal representation for all States and its powers without parallel in any other upper House. The first duty of the Senate is to be a States' House. Quite simply, if that situation is no longer acceptable to some misinformed minds, the answer is to disband the Commonwealth, not change the Senate, and renegotiate some consortium or alliance between the several States. Apart from being a historical point, this duty as a States' House is the bond that will continue to hold Australia together. Whilst I believe that the people of Australia should be united as one nation, like  Senator Tate  I cannot be insensitive to the growing disenchantment of the residents of the outlying States of Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania with their economic plight. These three States earn the bulk of the export income of this country. Left to their own resources they would enjoy a higher standard of living than the rest of Australia but for the fact that we have a manufacturing industry protected by high tariffs. More importantly, there never has been any reckoning of the economic effects of the distribution of those high tariffs on State economies, as the honourable Kevin Cairns has pointed out in another place. In every recession since 1945 the outlying States have had a higher level of unemployment than their protected cousins. Unless there is some recognition of this point those States will move inexorably to separate themselves from those that they are supporting. Constitutionally this Senate has the power to see that there is a fair balance made, and that this separation, which I would view as an unmitigated tragedy, can be averted. 
This is a historic time to be a member of the Parliament of Australia. As this country is emerging from the economic recession we have the opportunity and the responsibility to redefine our economic goals for the next generation. I have no wish to see a centralised department of economic planning in this country, for the less interferences in the affairs of commerce the more jobs there will be in the community and the higher will be the standards of living. However, I believe that it is the duty of government to encourage discussion between industry, the unions and the Australian people of what our industrial goals should be 10 or 20 years from now so that a reasoned progression can be made towards those goals. We should have agreement and a clear idea of where we are going. Sudden tariff changes such as the 25 per cent cut by the previous Government only cause industries to fail before they have time to adjust. But in a broader sense governments from this side of politics have shown a reluctance to realise that the policies which were so brilliantly successful in the rapid growth of the 1950s and 1960s are no longer applicable today. We can have policies which will be as successful as those in the past, but they will be longer range policies and not ad hoc or day to day policies. 
Economically, we have two concerns: To maintain meaningful and satisfying employment for those people who wish to work, and to earn export income to develop this country. Export income comes primarily from our rural and mining industries, both of which are handicapped severely by the high tariff protection given to secondary industry. The cost of that protection flows on to the cost of their production. We must maintain efficiency in the costs of production of the great rural industries and we must maintain and expand if possible their export markets. In the mineral field we should be making more use of our natural resources, our abundant energy in the form coal and natural gas, and we should be processing minerals further and further along the road to their final application. We should not only be producing copper, steel and aluminium and taking a position in the international markets by virtue of the scale of our operations; but we should also be developing and producing the special alloys from these metals with their greatly increased financial return. However, it should be said that while the financial gains from these moves are well worth pursuing, the return in employment is likely to be slight. 
Manufacturing industry is the biggest employer in Australia and will continue to be so in the foreseeable future. We produce an enormous range of products, some of them sustained by high tariff barriers. Dare I suggest that some of these industries in time, if they are not essential for defence, should be exposed to competition? This leads me to the whole question of tariff protection. Australia will always need tariff protection. The free trade argument died generations ago. We need to be honest and to recognise that we have got into a mess with the present system. The unfortunate result of the present system is that it protects not only industries; sometimes it also protects inadequate performance, both by management and unions. Some of the present tariff levels cannot be sustained. Some industries have not only very high tariff protection but also quotas for imports in a vain attempt to protect the unprotectable 
As a nation we have certain strengths and certain weaknesses. Some of those strengths are that we have a highly educated work force, abundant energy sources and raw materials. Two of our weaknesses are that we have a small population and we are a distance from our overseas markets. Instead of trying to manufacture everything in the world, I would like to see this country plan and concentrate its efforts so that we use to the limits those natural advantages we possess. The time is ripe for that move. We have embarked upon a major change in the industrial life of this country. Few people foresaw if, certainly no one in government. Even fewer people wanted it. But, like a boat lifted off the beach by the rising tide, we are afloat on its waters and we have no option but to sail to another shore. Technological change is inevitable. The important thing is to use that change intelligently and guide it so that it operates in the best long term interests of Australia. 
It is not a tenable position to say that we will not approve of change if it costs jobs. Certainly, the effects of the introduction of new technology must be discussed in advance with the work force and the unions. Certainly, the changes must be anticipated and provision made to retrain the staff so displaced. That is the very essence of my plea for discussion and agreement about where the nation is going during the years ahead so that pointless confrontations can be avoided. I cannot see this matter in party political terms. Like defence, it is a matter on which we should have a bipartisan policy. One of the most potent barriers to a rational discussion on technological change comes from the emotional content of the unemployment debate. Everyone in this Parliament is vitally concerned about this issue. No one wants to see people out of work, least of all those people leaving school and trying to establish themselves. But the intensity of the emotions blurs the issues and leads us to consider the symptoms, not the causes, of the problem. We have taken the first step in tackling unemployment by controlling inflation. Now we must increase efficiency and raise productivity, which means upgrading management skills and modifying union practices, principally by encouraging unions to move from a craft based organisation to an industry based one. If we are not competitive industrially but shelter behind higher and higher tariffs and quotas, we will travel down a path of higher and higher taxes, more and more government subsidies and takeovers of failing industries to an inevitable socialist morass. 
The problem of unemployment will not be solved by higher tariffs or quotas or by denying technological change. We cannot retreat to the womb or to the industrial era of the 1 950s and the 1960s. Those days are gone forever. We have to find new industries. The crucial question is what industries? What they must not be are industries which make facsimiles of what is made overseas. The industries we select must be industries which, by the quality of their products, allow us to dominate, in narrow fields, sections of the world market. We can then sell these products on the home market free of tariff protection. These industries must integrate into a world wide trade pattern, not only satisfying the needs of Europe and North America but also, just as importantly, they must integrate into the economies and needs of our neighbours in the Association of South East Asian Nations, for it is essential that we trade with them, and increase that trade with them and on a non-competitive basis. 
Two essential steps are required to develop these new industries: Firstly, there must be a change in company tax laws; secondly, we need an adequate research and development program. Funding for industrial research and development in Australia has always been lower than in most other countries and it has decreased in recent years. Because of the peculiar nature of Australian industry, the correction of this problem is not merely a matter of giving out more grants. There are major companies such as C.S.R. Ltd and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which have active and successful research and development histories. But they are few in number. The majority of large companies are foreign owned, producing the same products as their parent companies overseas and with very little need or interest in creative research and development in Australia. The overwhelming number of manufacturing organisations in 
Australia are simply too small to have an effective research and development unit. It is hoped ASTEC, the newly formed Australian Science and Technology Council, will play a major part in providing a suitable climate for industrial research and development. The Government must encourage innovative research, followed by the appropriate development experience, as well as encouraging companies with entrepreneurial skills to get into production. It is not a valid argument to say that the opportunities do not exist at present. Opportunities do exist. More import.antly, we will create opportunities by our endeavours. Fortune favours the prepared mind. 
All this is simple to say but it is a problem of great complexity. It can be done; it has to be done. The consequences of not acting positively in this direction will be steadily increasing levels of unemployment, falling standards of living, and a bitter, divided society- a society unlike any we have ever seen in Australian history, a society of the haves trying to maintain their employment and their possessions and a society of the havenots. No one can foresee what effect that will have on the political parties of Australia or on parliamentary democracy. I wonder whether the changes we are seeing in the great swings in election results over the last three years are not some early warning of the change. 
While looking at the future responsibilities of government, one particular area stands out and that is defence. We no longer are in the favoured position of having allies who automatically will come to our aid. The defence of this country is the responsibility of the Australian people. I do not believe that defence is at an adequate level at present. It is not at an adequate level because members of the public at large do not place much emphasis upon it. I believe that it is possible to defend this country with our population and our resources against attack from all but a super power. But it takes determination and preparation to do so. To avoid raising taxes, it will also take a change in priorities in the Budget allocation, some self-denial to enable a transfer of funds to the defence vote. One of the most commendable developments in relation to defence has been the emergence of some signs of bipartisan policy on the part of the major parties. Whatever the changes in this country, as Liberals we are committed to the importance of the individual member of society. People must have the ability to develop their own lives in their own ways without asking governments, with their inefficiency and insensitivity, to do it for them. 
How can we accept the high rates of direct and indirect taxation that now prevail? Taxation in all its pleomorphic forms has reached a level where it has stifled all ambition. Even worse, it has created a criminal section within a normally law abiding community. We have never been too eager to pay tax in this country, but people now have no moral scruple in evading their taxation liabilities. We must lower taxation; we must recreate a society where the individual can provide for himself. How can he provide for himself if we tax him so that he cannot save, cannot house his family and cannot provide for his sickness and his old age? The family is the fundamental unit of society. Whilst governments have no place- within the family circle, they have an obligation to encourage the family group. With the striking exception of the family allowance scheme of this Government, very little has been done in a financial sense to encourage families to raise children. In addition, the Family Law Act has not contributed to the stability of marriage. Certainly the institution of marriage has changed in our time- in my judgment it has changed for the better. Changes in sexual morality have been one of the contributing factors. Whatever the reasons, marriage has changed and those changes cannot be reversed. My quarrel with the Family Law Act is that it provides no incentive to couples who are faced with the difficulties which all relationships experience to try to resolve those difficulties before separating. The consequences of this, both to the parties involved and the community, are enormous. 
To return to my original point, I am conscious of the privilege of serving in the Senate. I believe that the Senate must and will play an increasingly dominant role in the affairs of this country. I have every confidence in the ability of my colleagues on both sides of the chamber to reason. I was delighted when the Science and Industry Research Amendment Bill 1978 was debated some weeks ago because a genuine understanding of the place of science in our culture was demonstrated. Coming from a scientific background, I quote with pleasure  Senator Baume  's words in that debate when he said: 
. there has never been a parliament better prepared ... to make a useful . . . debate on science. There are more people in the Parliament now who have been practising scientists in their own right, who have gone through the rigours of scientific training . . . 
This is of great importance because in Australia today we seem to be in the depths of a counter culture against science. In this we stand apart from all other Western nations. We seem to have been seduced by fallacious arguments on the quality of life theme and the virtues of the dropping out mentality. Science in too many Australian eyes means herbicides deforming unborn babies or nuclear reactors destroying mankind. Nothing could be further from the truth. Science alone has given us the standard of living that we enjoy today. It is only through science that we will maintain and improve on those standards. All the  Blue Poles  in the world will not heal one sick child. As Jacob Bronowski said in his memorable series  The Ascent of Man: 
We are a scientific civilisation; that means a civilisation where knowledge and its integrity are crucial . .  Science is only a Latin word Tor knowledge . . . knowledge is the destiny of mankind. 
Let us by all means argue the great concerns of our lives, such as the preservation of the environment or the nuclear generation of power. But let us do it from a factual base. Let us nurture and develop the sensibilities of the debate on the Science and Industry Research Amendment Bill because along that path lie the benefits that we seek for all Australians. As members of this Parliament we are members of a living, growing body, guided by tradition on one side and responding to demands from society on the other- all within the law of the Constitution. The operations of the Senate are changing and they are changing in true Senate style in a reasoned and rational way. The biggest problem with our method of government is the lack of effective checks and balances on the Executive. Clearly this is an impossible task for the House of Representatives which is the home of the Executive and must support it at all times. The checks and balances can only occur in the Senate. Whilst it is a complex question, the case for the absence of the Executive from the Senate, as was so lucidly argued by  Senator Hamer,  rests quite clearly on the need for there to be no conflict of interest. It is one of the inevitable changes of the future. 
In addition to all the other duties of this chamber, I believe that the Senate will develop in a way that was not foreseen by our Founding Fathers. Every country has to have a focal point-sometimes it is an institution, sometimes it is a place, sometimes it is a person. The Senate will become that focal point for Australia. I do not think Australia will become a republic in my lifetime- that is not a cause that I am promoting- but with the changes in population and the weakening of the links with Europe, the Australian Senate will come to be seen as the centre, the forum for our national aspirations, the crucible in which the Australian ethos is refined. Australia is changing- its economy, its people, its social customs. There is nothing wrong with that change because life is growth and development and that cannot occur without change. We are endowed with many attributes in this world. We are an educated and capable people with more than our share of creative abilities. Let us not shrink from this change. No-one in this chamber can be without some fears as to what might happen in the years ahead. But let us draw strength from our abilities and achievements, from the experiences of the past, from the way our forebears faced and came their problems. The problems that we face are neither daunting nor insoluble; they are exciting because of their complexity and magnitude. Let us go forward with confidence to meet them. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. As one of the divisions of the Minister's Department, through the Honours Secretariat, deals with the declaration of national emblems and symbols, can the Minister say how consideration is progressing of the nomination of a national stone for Australia? 
Just listen, please. By way of explanation, I should say that the Australian Gemmological Society has written, asking that a stone be nominated and that that stone be the Australian opal. In view of the great place that rnining has in Australia. It would seem appropriate to accede to the request that there be a national stone and proposals that that stone should be an opal are most appropriate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Which airlines, travel companies or business organisations have contributed to the cost of upgrading airfields in Australia to the standard required for use by Regular Public Transport (RPT) Aircraft. 
Which airfields were upgraded, and when was the work at each airfield carried out. 
Did the airline or organisation providing the funds for such upgrading receive any exclusive use of the facility. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Which airports, other than those in capital cities and in Queensland, had a through-put of Domestic Revenue passengers in excess of 300,000 during the period I October 1977 to 30 September 1978. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether the Federal Government, through the Department of Defence, consults with State governments and local authorities when roads and railways are being built or upgraded to ensure that what is being done is optimised for defence needs. 
Following on  Senator Young's  question of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, I ask the Minister: As the Australian Transport Advisory Council is meeting tomorrow to discuss vehicle exhaust emission controls, will the Government point out at that meeting that fuel is now a scarce and expensive commodity and the introduction of stage 3 of the emission controls will further increase fuel wastage in this country, at a direct cost to the community of many hundreds of millions of dollars a year and, equally importantly, with deleterious effects on our balance of payments at a time when the state of our balance of payments is critical? 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment whether he saw the article in last Thursday's  Australian  about the 85-tonne American space craft  Skylab  which is due to re-enter the earth's atmosphere prematurely later this year or early next year and is planned to impact in a corridor 1,600 kilometres by 160 kilometres, which area includes part of eastern Australia. Has the Australian Government obtained the precise location of this corridor? If not, can it be obtained as a matter of urgency? What emergency procedures have been instituted to cope with any disaster that might occur? 
I rise to speak against  Senator Chipp  's motion. I do so because it is far too narrow. It fails to recognise the magnitude of the problems involved in managing the Barrier Reef. In only one dimension does it attain any size at all, and there it goes beyond all bounds. It calls for 'all possible effects of oil drilling' to be considered. It simply is not within our resources to look at all of the possible effects. I support  Senator Jessop  's suggestion foreshadowing an amendment which would refer the matter to the Science and Environment Committee in due course. An excellent bibliography, from a research point of view, exists on this issue. As the Parliamentary Library pointed out per medium of  Senator Jessop,  there has been no substantial research since the last major publications in this field which gives us any justification for accepting the motion. I would particularly like to support  Senator Jessop  's plea for further marine and oceanographic research in the reef area. 
The Great Barrier Reef is a most valuable asset. Like all assets it has to be protected. Previous speakers have covered most of the important points and I do not wish to re-cover them, but I would like to re-emphasise certain aspects. First, there is the vast scale of the reef itself. It really is a huge physical structure which extends for more than 1,200 miles and is quite unique. Its huge size gives it in many ways an emormous potential- for tourism, for recreation, for education and for research. In the fullness of time it may be a very important source of protein, produced and harvested, in ways that will not harm the reef's ecology in any way with techniques yet to be developed. It may have a most important part to play in feeding the overcrowded humanity of this world. Man has lived on land and has drawn most of his support from it, with very little reference to the sea. That is particularly true in Australia. I do not know why it is but Australians take very little interest in their marine environment. Most of them live within 50 or 100 miles of the shoreline. Most of them swim. Most of them sail. But there is very little evidence that Australians take much interest at all in the sea that surrounds them. One can see this in the paucity of the marine research that Australia has carried out over the decades. 
At the outset I would like to declare my interest in this reef. As a Queenslander I want to see the reef preserved-at the very least in the condition it is in today, without being subjected to degradation or depradation in any way. I am opposed to oil rigs being placed on the reef itself but I would like to stress the great lack of scientific knowledge concerning what is involved in maintaining the reef in its present state.lt represents a dynamic situation. It is a dynamic biological system. It is not a glass fish tank in someone 's suburban house. It is subject constantly to change. It is subject to change which sometimes improves it and sometimes destroys it. For instance, the effect of a major cyclone going down the reef is quite enormous. These are matters that we trust to be aware of, that we are dealing with a dynamic situation. Some people think that if they put a barrier around the reef they can leave it and it and it will be safe in perpetuity without the need for any maintenance at all. 
One of the risks inherent in this debate is that the subject of oil spillage will be seen as representing all of the issues involved. There are many broader issues. Since we have been talking about oil we have really been thinking about energy. It is time to get back to basics on this point. The first priority for this country is to greatly accelerate the policy laid down by the National Energy Research, Development and Administration Council on 26 May 1978, as outlined by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  Broadly, that policy is designed firstly to conserve energy, and secondly to develop supplementary and alternative sources. It is a good and valid program but it has been the product of more leisurely times. It pre-dates the changes in Iran. After Iran, with the encirclement of Saudi Arabia, who knows what comes next for the oil supplies of this world. As a Parliament we need to press for an acceleration of the programs of NERDAC which have already been outlined, because that is a matter of national importance. 
Although we have this pressing need for oil, with respect to those arguing about the risks of oil spills on the reef I gently suggest that their priorities are wrong. Surely the first thing is to find out what is out there? When we know what is out there then we can decide what needs to be done in the national interest. It is a popularly held lay-belief that there is oil in vast quantities in the Barrier Reef and as proof of that assertion there has been the debate tonight, the correspondence in the newspapers and the general level of discussion in the community about whether we drill for oil on the Reef. The fact that the argument goes on means that most people think that there is oil out there. I have spoken to some very experienced and senior oil geologists around the place. All of them make a point of qualifying their judgment. The qualification they place upon their judgment is the fact that there has been very little geological survey work done on the offshore areas of Queensland. With that qualification they say that it is very unlikely that there is oil in the Barrier Reef area. They base that opinion on the fact that with the known geology the basement rocks are so shallow that they do not provide the reservoirs that are usually needed for oil deposition. One of the risks of going along with the folklore that there is a lot of oil out on the Reef- the consequences of this position of ignorance as a result of not knowing the true geological picture- is that people view this as a reserve of oil to be kept for hard times. They may very well plan things on the basis of having some oil out there if things get difficult in the field of international oil supply. Their attitude may be: 'Well, then, we can go out and look at the Barrier Reef. For all we know there may be no oil there at all. 
I will stress a few points about the history of geological exploration off the Queensland coast. Very little exploration has been carried out and some of the information on which predictions are made about domes and all the rest of it are based on land-based geological surveys which have been extrapolated off the coast. My knowledge on this subject may well be incomplete, but it is significant that  Senator Chipp,  who has gone into the history of oil drilling and drilling on the reef most exhaustively, did not come up with any of the points that I am going to come up with now. He jumped straight from the 1860s to 1967. In the 1930s two drill holes were placed at Michaelmas Bay and Heron Island. Neither of those went to bedrock. They were confined to coral and yielded little, if any, geological information. In the 1950s one drill hole was placed on Wreck Island which was a test for hydrocarbons and it yielded negative results. Later on two holes were drilled in the Capricorn ChannelAquarius and Capricorn- and they were drilled down to bedrock. Again, they were negative in their findings. 
The seismic survey work which always accompanies drilling has been very sparse off the Queensland coast. It has been very partial. It has not covered the whole area and this is a consequence of the vast size involved. It has been limited in scope and finance and it has been confined to the open waters. No seismic survey work has been done in any of the reefs areas. In summary the seismic work has been of a reconnaissance nature, not a continuing survey. So we are really bankrupt for geological evidence as to the structures off the Queensland coast. The indications are that there is probably no oil there at all. I suggest that it is in the national interest and that it is the responsibility of the Government to know precisely what is out there. 
I think there should be a geological survey of all the offshore areas around Australia- not only the Queensland coast areas- because they are part of our extended economic zone. Whether or not we are going to use them is really irrelevant. The point is that it is just good housekeeping and good management practice that we know what we have and what we do not have. This geological survey can be done off the Queensland coast without any harm at all to any of the reef structures. The seismic surveys are absolutely harmless. Test drilling can be done on areas remote from a reef, and technically it is a very safe procedure. I believe it is our responsibility to know our own country. Secondary to that, we should decide what we need to do in terms of the national interest. That does not preclude the fact that we may ban drilling for oil if indeed there is any oil out there. Let us arrive at a decision in a logical way. Let us find out what is out there first and then let us have a debate as to whether we use those resources if they exist. 
I return to my starting point which is basically a plea for an increase in the scientific knowledge of the marine environment off the coast. Not only do we know very little about the sea-bed off the Queensland coast but also we know very little about the waters above it. This is an enormous task that falls to us. We were talking about oil spills earlier tonight but no one took much notice of the depredations that the Taiwanese and other Asian fishermen are making on the reef with the removal of the innards of clams. There is probably more evidence to show that this is more harmful to the reef than any other form of human activity. Yet the governments involved seem to do very little to check this. A lot of this is going on and the people are not being apprehended. 
I think legislation is already on the books, for that situation. It is a matter for the Government to put these resources to it so that the laws can be enforced. Fortunately we do have a situation that gives us some hope. Recently the Government has commissioned the Australian Institute of Marine Science at Cape Ferguson and that is a superb research establishment. It was built at a cost of around $14m and has excellent equipment, excellent laboratories and it has an outstanding Director. The Director has an international reputation in scholarship and a lifelong experience as a marine biologist. But it does not have the staff to operate properly. It is a matter for this Government to see that some staff is assigned to the Australian Institute of Marine Science at Cape Ferguson so that it can operate in the way in which it was designed. If it does that it can fulfil what  Senator Jessop  was talking about and that is carrying out of scientific investigation of the waters around the reef to provide us with the equipment and knowledge we need to preserve this structure. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of recent statements by Opposition spokesmen, including the Leader of the Opposition, advocating the introduction of a capital gains tax? Can the Minister inform the Senate as to the likely impact of these Australian Labor Party proposals on the earning capacity of Australian primary producers and business enterprises? How would the introduction of a capital gains tax affect the individual ability of Australians to dispose of private property? Finally, at a time when personal effort and personal initiative more than ever before are valuable to the recovery of this country, could a more devastating way be designed to discourage this initiative? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the many representations made by organisations on behalf of the sugar industry requesting as a matter of urgency an increase in the domestic price of sugar to cover the greatly increased costs of production arising from the increased cost of fuels and nitrogenous fertilizers, to name but two, can the Minister advise the Senate when a decision is likely to be handed down on a rise in the domestic sugar price? 
Before I commence to deal with the subject about which I wish to speak in this first reading debate on the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill, I would like to comment on the last point that the previous  speaker, Senator Gietzelt,  made about radiation and the risks from radiation to the community. I saw that segment on the  Nationwide  television program to which the honourable senator referred. I think I can safely say- I am choosing my words- that it lacked a little bit of balance. It exaggerated some points. The risk of radiation has been recognised by the medical and dental professions, not for 10 or 20 years but for many decades. Some of the people most affected were the early medical practitioners working with radiation. They suffered the effects of it themselves. The matter has been continuously under review by the various public health bodies, including the National Health and Medical Resarch Council. 
In recent years techniques have led to a minimisation of exposure times. The members of the professions who are using radiation as a diagnostic tool are well aware of the consequences of its injudicious application. I am sure that the matter is well in hand. I am aware that the Australian 
Dental Association- I would be surprised if the Australian Medical Association did not do so as well- made a public reply to that program. It is a matter that must be put in balance. Any patient going to a medical practitioner for an examination, where it is indicated as being necessary, usually receives some X-ray examination. The X-ray machine is a supporting tool in a diagnosis. If the diagnosis is not correct and the patient resorts to litigation against the practitioner, which is quite common these days, and that practitioner has not taken the elementary diagnostic step of making a supporting radiographic examination where it is necessary, he does not have a case in court; he is likely to be sued by that patient for negligence. It is a matter of balance and it is something of which the professions are well aware. 
I would like to speak about a matter that is of continuing interest to the Senate, namely, the suggestion that Ministers not sit in the Senate. It is not my intention to propose that this be done immediately, because I am well aware that there are some slight administrative adjustments consequent on this action. Rather, it is my intention to review the question in general terms. I will review the great advantages, in the form of more relevant and responsive government accruing to the Australian people, of not having Ministers in the Senate, apart from the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I shall outline the alternative procedure of committees, committees endowed with adequate resources both in the authority of their chairmen and in secretariat and research staff to support them. Finally, I shall deal with the misconceptions that this proposal seems to have engendered. 
It is all too evident that there is concern about the performance of elected parliamentary governments in this country and in other countries. Everyone who lives in a democracy would support the argument that it is the most desirable form of government because it should maximise the freedom of the individual in society. Most people are prepared to accept some delay and some inefficiency in the workings of a democracy as the price they pay for safeguarding those freedoms. However, there is a limit to how far any system of government can be inefficient. If the inefficiency is taken too far, the government can lose the respect, and thereby the support, of the populace; or it can be so inefficient that the country it governs cannot survive in competition with other nations. If enough people become dissatisfied with our system of parliamentary government it will not survive. I suggest that clear and important signs of dissatisfaction are evident in the community. It is not overstating the case to say that a body of people in the community see this Parliament as at best an irrelevance and at worst a positive handicap in the growth of the country. 
When we analyse the critics' statements, we find that what they are saying is not a criticism of parliamentary government per se but a criticism of the way it works and the way it conducts its affairs. People are very concerned at the inappropriateness, to put it euphemistically, of much of the legislation parliament produces. There are reasons why inappropriate legislation is passed in the parliament from time to time. A Minister must rely very heavily on advice and guidance from his department in preparing legislation. In a stable situation this works very well. In a dynamic situation, such as we have had for the last few years and which we will have in the foreseeable future, when new situations are arising continuously, it becomes very difficult to get the correct response out of this system. Basically, it is a system that looks backwards to go forward. It looks to the past, in the form of experience, to plan what it will do in the future, and when the future is not mirrored in the past it is in difficulties. 
Short range policies are another cause of bad legislation. A government with a three-year term of office finds it hard not to induce a state of euphoria that is beneficial to its political future at least once in every three years. Those measures that it uses may not be conducive to the best interests of the country. Furthermore, the members of the community are concerned, when differing points of view are clearly evident and valid, that their legitimate input through their own electoral representatives, who are private members of parliament, seems to have no influence on Executive decision. The exercise of power by the Executive is a profound question which I do not wish to explore tonight. In government, leadership must be exercised, and exercised confidently and positively. In the Westminster system, the Executive must have the support of the members of the Government on the floor of the House when legislation is presented, or there would be chaos. But the giving of this support effectively denies the right of the private member to question, to inquire and to modify. The consequences of this have been lucidly described by Professor Gordon Reid, who observed that the House of Representatives 'had become the captive of the Executive government of the day and is now a sadly repressed and debilitated parliamentary chamber'. 
I argue most strongly that the problems we face are not fundamental problems concerning the worth of a democratic system. The problems we face are management problems- problems of modifying a system that has worked reasonably well in the past and making it more appropriate for the needs of the present and of the future. Above all, there must be a progressive, logical improvement which can be made within the laws of the Constitution. I am certainly not advocating a new radical approach and a new system, the success of which cannot be foretold. 
This Australian Federal Parliament stands alone. There is nothing the same as it anywhere else in the world. It is not a copy of the Parliament of the United Kingdom; it is not a copy of the Congress in the United States of America. It cannot be changed to follow either system. The most important distinguishing feature of the Australian Federal Parliament is the Senate, with its powers without parallel in any other second house of parliament in the world. As senators we have the power to change the ways we conduct our business. Furthermore, it is the only avenue by which change of importance and magnitude can be effected in the Federal Parliament without altering the Constitution or making some other extreme move. The Senate is the creative body of Australian politics. It has a proud history of innovation and achievement. The Standing Orders- that most inviolate repository of tradition- have been changed over the years. In 1970 came the great innovation of the committee system which has greatly increased the prestige and effectiveness of the Senate. 
It is important to stand back and view these changes with detachment. They form part of a logical response to changed circumstances. The need for further change is still with us. It is perfectly correct and legitimate for us to respond by changing our methods to meet new situations. After all, it is our birthright. Parliaments once were very dynamic and innovative. Australian aspirations are changing. Only the first tenuous signs of this are detectable at present, but there is an emerging wave of realism in the air. After the problems of the last six years, following on so many years of ease, people are getting back to basics. They want to be more self-reliant. They want less government and certainly less intrusion and less hindrance by government in their daily lives. They want performance, not platitudes, from their government. It behoves us to meet those demands by improving our management systems. 
Within the Australian context there is little formal recognition of the Federal Ministry. Section 6 1 of the Constitution vests the executive power of the Commonwealth in the monarch, exercisable by the Government-General as the Queen 's representative. Section 62 empowers the appointment of Executive Councillors, holding office at the Governor-General's pleasure, to advise in the governing of the country. Under Section 64 the Governor-General may appoint officers to administer departments of State. These Ministers of State shall be Executive Councillors and must become members of either Federal House within three months of their appointment to office. 
Historically, the concept of a Ministry to advise the monarch grew out of the Privy Council but it owes its origins to the practices of continental Europe. Even in its formative years, such a body was the object of criticism. Francis Bacon said: 
The doctrine of Italy and practice of France, in some kings' times hath introduced cabinet councils, a remedy worse than the disease . . . that is . . . councils of gracious persons recommended chiefly by flattery and affection. 
I am sure that the latter part of that quotation does not apply today but certainly the part about councils of gracious persons does. Under the Stuart monarchs the notion of a committee composed of Ministers, advisers and courtiers upon whom the King relied and who were responsible for the transaction of most government business, came to be accepted as the machinery of executive government. The Privy Council remained only for the conducting of formal business. 
The coming to the throne of George I, who displayed an all-embracing disinterest in government affairs, saw the executive assume the decisive role in state affairs. During this period,  Sir Robert  Walpole, as First Lord of the Treasury, emerged as the first of Britain's Prime Ministers. George Ill's attempt to reassert the power of the monarchy stimulated the development of the doctrine that Ministers should be united by political principle and that the Prime Minister should be the freely elected chosen leader of his colleagues. The 1832 Reform Bill, which introduced a slightly more popular franchise in a more representative collection of constituencies, ushered in the era of party government with Cabinet government. It was in 1 84 1 , with the defeat of Lord Melbourne's Whig Government in the Commons and the subsequent election of  Sir Robert  Peel's Tories that the concept of parliamentary responsibility was established. 
Gladstone sought to define the role of the lower House when he said: 
Your business is not to govern the country, but it is, if you think fit, to call to account those who do govern it. 
However, with the increased rigidity of the party system operating in the Lower House, Ministers no longer have to nurse their measures through the House and be prepared to defend and amend them at every turn. 
I submit that events since Federation now preclude the House of Representatives from effectively discharging that responsibility. Indeed the demands of executive government actively prevent the Lower House from scrutinising closely government performance. This is even true of this chamber. The All-Party Parliamentary Joint Committee of Constitutional Review found in 1959: 
In particular, the evolution of political parties has upset the speculations of many of the Founders as to how the Senate would function. The Senate has for many years been as susceptible to party political influences as the House of Representatives and proceedings in the Senate usually find party divisions corresponding to those in the House of Representatives. 
It is in this historical context that the role of Ministers in the Australian Senate must be examined. In the first Federal ministry of 10 members under Edmund Barton, two Senators served,  Senator Richard  O'Connor being Vice-President of the Executive Council. Five senators served in the Menzies ministries between 1939 and 1941, frequently as Ministers without portfolio. This practice was continued during the Labor ministries of the 1940s. Since 1972 both Labor and Liberal prime Ministers have restricted Senate representation to five or six out of 27 Ministers. 
The next step in our evolutionary path is for Ministers not to be appointed from the Senate. Let us look briefly at how this would operate. First of all, the Leader of the Government would be the sole member of the Ministry to remain in the Senate.  His  duty would be to provide adequate means of communication between the two bodies. Secondly, ministers could appear on roster in the Senate to answer questions. This would be an improvement on the present system whereby the Senate is denied the opportunity of ever questioning the great majority of the Ministry. Standing Orders could be amended to allow a longer period for Question Time. The right to supplementary questions could be granted to all senators, not only the senator asking the question. 
Interestingly, the Senate, nearly 60 years ago, sought to bring this about. In 1920, Message No. 21 from the  President  of the Senate to the  Speaker  read: 
The Senate transmits to the House of Representatives the following Resolution which has been agreed to by the 
Senate, and requests the concurrence of the House of Representatives therein, namely: 'That the Standing Orders Committees of the Senate and House of Representatives be requested to consider the question of preparing Standing Orders providing that a Minister in either House may attend and explain and pilot through the other House any Bill of which he has had charge in his own House'. 
The House of Representatives never debated that proposal. 
On 16 May 1973, the then Prime Minister informed the House of Representatives that the Government intended proceeding with a proposal to have Ministers in each House regularly rostered to answer questions without notice in the other House. The Standing Orders Committee of the House of Representatives recommended that it be given a trial, but consideration of the report lapsed on the dissolution of Parliament on 11 April 1974. The administrative details, however, were not considered insurmountable. 
Thirdly, the legislative and general purpose standing committees of the Senate would be retained with the chairmen of the committees being granted parity of status with ministers and the Committee secretariat improved to provide the necessary secretarial and research competence. Bills would originate in the House of Representatives and be presented for their first reading in this chamber as they are at present; then the relevant committee would receive the Bill and review it. Most of the Bills would be approved automatically by the committee, but those requiring further consideration could be the subject of further debate in the Senate or exposed for public comment before being voted on. 
The first benefit would be that the Senate would be able to operate more competently as a House of review. There would be the removal of a conflict of interest from this chamber. Let me be at great pains to stress that I am not reflecting on the integrity of the Ministry in any way. But being a Minister and being a senator can produce interests which are not always compatible. In 1926,  Sir Earle  Page defined the duties of a Minister and at the same time highlighted the difficulties facing a Minister sitting as a member of a genuine House of review when he said: 
A Minister may personally hold certain views, but in Cabinet he has to abide by the decision of the majority and fight for whatever policy is put before the country by Cabinet as a corporate body. 
The doctrine of Cabinet solidarity is inimical to this House performing its proper role. The functioning of this chamber as an effective and efficient House of review should not be compromised. Quick and Garran, in their annotated  Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth,  defined the fundamental precept of Cabinet government. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sibraa)-  Order!  Senator MacGibbon,  I suggest that you frame your speech so that it does not transgress Standing Order 419 which states in part: 
No  Senator shall  digress from the subject-matter of any Question under discussion; nor anticipate the discussion of any subject which appears on the Notice Paper. 
Order of the Day No. 209, standing in the name of Senator Hamer, commences: 
1 ) That, in the opinion of the Senate- 
Senators should no longer hold office as Ministers of State . . . 
Therefore, I suggest that you frame you speech so that it does not directly transgress Standing Order 4 19. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- That is right. 
I repeat, Quick and Garran in their  Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth  said: 
The principle of the corporate unity and solidarity of the Cabinet requires that the Cabinet should have one harmonious policy, both in administration and in legislation, and that the advice tendered by the Cabinet to the Crown should be unanimous and consistent; that the Cabinet should stand or fall together. 
The first loyalty of a Minister is to the Executive. That priority transcends the Minister's responsibility to this chamber as a senator and therefore it can only detract from our proper constitutional role. Secondly, in some cases it may be desirable to hold public hearings. There are obviously some topics on which this would be impossible but it could be a move of very considerable value. It would allow people with specialised knowledge- knowledge that might not reside within the Parliament or within the 
Public Service- to come forward. With the diversity of skills and interests in a modern society, this is a very real point, for governments in this age frequently control forces that they do not understand. It would also provide an opportunity for minority groups to argue their case and be granted a fair hearing. How much more preferable that would be to making their points on the streets. Above all, it would provide a tangible opportunity for the public to contribute to the legislation that controls their lives. 
The other enormous benefit of this system is that it allows the Government to have its policies discussed without embarrassment. Under the present system it tends to operate against the prestige of a government if too much discussion takes place amongst its own private members on proposed legislation. Unless a government is infallible there is some potential benefit in other minds considering its actions. The legislative process would be advanced if discussion, explanation and amendments were able to be made to legislation without distress to the Government of the day. The possibility of public hearings would have the effect of slowing down the number of Bills presented to the Parliament. This would be a good thing because, as has been shown in this chamber previously, we pass in a year three times as many Bills as does the Canadian Parliament, and twice as many as does the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Big numbers of Bills mean big Government with higher taxes to pay for their implementation. We need fewer Bills and less government. 
If the review function of the Senate were enhanced, then the State could exercise more effectively its responsibilities to the States and play an important role in the decentralisation of power. The origins of the Senate are to be found in the concern of the smaller States at the time of Federation to see an equitable distribution of power. This is fundamental to the long-term survival of a democracy. The same considerations can be extended to other groups. We are very concerned about the rights of the States, but we are also concerned about the rights of informed people to be able constructively to contribute to their government, of minority groups to make their own contribution, and of private members of parliament to make theirs. 
Those who argue against this move seem to have difficulty in understanding that what is proposed is merely a machinery move and that no legislation is involved in bringing it about. The whole purpose of this move is to improve the efficiency and the competence of Parliament and thereby its relevance and value to the Australian people. It is incorrect to say that the power of the Senate would be diminished and that the power to withhold Supply would disappear. That is a different question. The powers of the Senate are defined in the Constitution and can be altered only by a referendum. There is no intention at all to alter those powers. All that is sought is an internal management change, which in no way affects the rights or privileges of the Senate. Far from diminishing the powers of the Senate or the respect in which it is held, it would enhance them because it would become a more effective body. 
It is also said that somehow the Government of the day would lose control of the Senate, if this came about. That argument need not be considered further for it is grossly insulting to every honourable member of this chamber. It can mean only either that this Senate is incapable of coming to an intelligent and responsible decision or that it is an adjunct of the Executive. 
Whilst this proposition is an old one, I am grateful that it has been brought up in recent times and it is pleasing that the initiative has been taken by a Liberal senator, because it is very much in accord with Liberal philosophy. We are concerned with the individual member of society, with the distribution of power, with the maintenance of the States and of the Federal system of government. In all of these matters the place of the Senate is crucial. Its effectiveness determines to what degree we are successful in attaining those goals. As I said at the beginning, many criticisms are made of the way in which this Federal Parliament operates with regard to the society around it. It is seen as being far too ponderous, too unresponsive and irrelevant to the needs of a modern Australia. Let us examine seriously ways in which we can put our house in order to meet those needs. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether he is aware that the Shell 
Oil Company has before the Prices Justification Tribunal an application seeking an increase in the price of Avgas of 4.96c per litre, plus a 3.5c per litre 'into tank' delivery charge which, if granted, will lift the price of Avgas in country areas- currently around 25.8c per litre- to around 34c, or roughly $1.56 a gallon, an increase of more than 30 per cent. Furthermore, is the Minister also aware that the Shell Oil Company is requesting approval for an additional 5c per litre drummed product surcharge on Avgas and that, as fuel is frequently delivered to country areas in 44 gallon drums, this will take the price of fuel to nearly 40c per litre, an increase of roughly 50 per cent against a current background inflation rate of eight per cent? In view of the importance of light aircraft in rural Australia, and bearing in mind that light aircraft compare more than favourably with cars as efficient users of fuel on a miles per gallon basis - 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen today's reports that the Commonwealth, Western Australian and Northern Territory Governments were exploring the feasibility of installing a $90m hydro-electric power station on the Ord River to supply Darwin with power? Will the Minister give an undertaking to extend the feasibility study to the Burdekin Dam in North Queensland, which not only is ideally suited for hydro-generation but also, unlike the Ord River, is supported by a highly developed community infrastructure which will require additional electrical power in the near future for its industrial and residential expansion and, as such, is eminently to be preferred, in the national interest, to wasting further money on the Ord scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and follows from a question by  Senator Gietzelt  on brewers ' liquid sugar as supplied to some breweries in Australia. Will the Minister agree that the sole use of this product is not as a sweetenerwhoever heard of sweet beer- but to provide a fermentable source of carbohydrate for the production of alcohol, the volume of sugar added in this form being proportional to the final alcohol content required? Is it not a fact, that, unless soft drink manufacturers are eager to pay excise duty in order to produce an alcoholic lemonade, their requests for brewers' liquid sugar to be supplied to them are technically meaningless? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As the establishment in Australia of the animal parasite known as the screw worm would cause great economic loss to primary industry, I ask: What quarantine procedures are operating against this parasite which is established in New Guinea and some Torres Strait Islands and therefore is close to Queensland? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence seen reports in the Press this week alleging that consideration of the purchase of the Mirage 2000 for the Tactical Fighter Force project is linked to France's opening up the European Economic Community restrictions on the entry of Australian agricultural products? Will the Minister confirm or deny these allegations? Would the Minister not agree that, whilst the entry of Australian agricultural products to Europe is of great importance, national security is more important and that the selection of the new TFF should be based on technical reasons relevant to Australia's particular needs, together with the usual offset requirements? Would the Minister also agree that if France co-operates with this barter allegation Australia may be compromised into accepting a design which is not yet proved and which may well be considerably inferior to its competitors? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the recent Press comments about the outlook for economic activity, can the Minister inform the Senate of the latest economic indicators relating to national gross domestic product? Will he confirm whether these and other indicators support the Government's basic economic strategy? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport what action the Government will take to see that the major airlines, sheltering behind the security of the two-airline agreement, honour their obligation to provide a service to the Australian public, rather than following a policy of creaming off the profits from high density routes- a policy which gravely disadvantages Queensland with its large area and great decentralisation. In particular, what action does the Government propose to take on the announcement in last Saturday's  Weekend Australian  by Ansett Airlines of Australia that it will cancel its night freighter service from Brisbane to Mackay, Townsville and Cairns? The article states: 
The end of the service, from May 8, means isolation Tor thousands of people from emergency medical supplies and vehicle and industrial spare parts. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, follows the question asked by  Senator Lewis  this morning. By way of introduction, I say that the equipment already installed by Telecom Australia in some exchanges, one of which I believe is Sydney, has the capacity to provide a detailed statement of international subscriber dialling accounts. The same equipment also has the technical capacity to provide this service in respect of subscriber trunk dialling accounts. Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, instruct Telecom to provide this service to subscribers in areas where it has this equipment installed, so that some Australian subscribers may enjoy a service which private enterprise has supplied to subscribers in the United States of America for many years and which, if provided, would go a long way towards dispelling the public disquiet about Telecom? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In the interests of social and commercial justice, will the Minister request the Treasurer to introduce progressively a uniform level of excise for all alcoholic beverages in Australia, the rate of excise being proportional to the percentage of alcohol in the product? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and follows on from  Senator Wriedt  's personal explanation in the Senate yesterday. I have read  Senator Wriedt  's speech in a document from the ministerial document service in which I hope he has not been misrepresented. Does not the statement by the honourable senator, who is no mere Leader of the Opposition in the Senate but the Australian Labor Party shadow Foreign Minister, seriously weaken the defence of Australia and the whole of the Western Alliance, because when stripped of all its humbug the statement has the sole purpose of creating an intolerable situation for the United States of America and Australia so that the United States will withdraw from its bases? Secondly, does not the confident prediction by the honourable senator that the socialist party will accept this policy at its next conference mean an end to the bipartisan approach of the major parties in this country towards these bases? Thirdly, was it not extraordinary that the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs should choose to make his speech not to the Australian Labor Party but to the Association for International Cooperation and Disarmament which is a well known spin-off of the World Peace Council, a front organisation for the Communist Party of Australia and a body proscribed by the ALP? 

 Honourable senators interjecting; 

I would like to ask a question in relation to this point because I think it needs clarification. Presumably the judges would be liable to pay income tax on a higher amount if this were given in lieu of salary. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Over the last few weeks I have received a dozen or more letters relating to the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1 979. Some of these letters have been against the Bill, and some of them have been for the Bill. Whatever the views contained in these letters, I welcome the fact that people write to me about it. But this morning I received a letter in an envelope the outside of which is marked 'OHMS' and the bottom of which is marked 'Commonwealth of Australia'. If not delivered within seven days, return to the Department of Civil Aviation, Post Office Box 1, Brisbane Airport.' On the top it has been franked with what I presume is a departmental franking machine. 
Opposition senators- Oh! 
This is a serious matter. Inside is a roneoed letter exactly the same as four others which I received throughout the day. I ask the Minister: Is this not a serious misuse of public funds? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

I will be very brief, since we have so many articulate and eager speakers on the other side. I wish to refer to the division 662. subdivision I, which deals with an additional estimate of $3,774,000. 
I have been adequately briefed. The purpose of this item is to provide expenditure requirements to meet the level of operating losses incurred by the Australian National Railways Commission in 1 978-79. 1 believe that out of the actual projected expenditure of $63,640,000, $14,930,000 is to be allocated to the Tasmanian railways. The losses in South Australia account for$48m-odd. This is an inherited situation. In one sense it baffles my imagination that even a Labor government in a State which has only one really large city can have a loss of $48m in one year, but it is a testimony to the financial incompetence of the Labor Government in South Australia that we have this situation on our hands. So much for that, it is ancient history. In the Committee we asked what was being done about this loss and we were advised that there was a five-year corporate plan. That is a delightful term- corporate plan. But another officer advanced the advice that a 10-year corporate plan was being advanced. With a loss of about $63m a year I think we need something a little faster than a 10-year plan to deal with it. We do not have a little bleed; we are virtually haemorrhaging to death at that rate. I suggest that the Department of Transport move with great urgency to stop that loss. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. In view of the many initiatives being carried out by the Government in the development of alternative and supplemental energy sources and their application to industry, I ask the Minister whether he is aware of the claims of two brilliant Queensland inventors, Adrian and David Little of Mount Isa, that their revolutionary solar tracking device cannot get adequate support from Australian industry. This unique design, which won the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Inventor of the Year award in 1978 and the World Health Prize of a gold medal at Geneva in the same year, has the potential to earn many millions of dollars for Australia in exports. Furthermore, the Littles have received the most generous offers from industry in America to reside and go into production there, which means that the invention would be lost irrevocably for Australia. If Australian industry fails to seize this opportunity, can the Littles apply under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976 for support for their development? 
 As  Senator Wheeldon  has drawn our attention to subterrestrial events, I wish to move to the matter of the air space above. The Minister for Science and the Environment will remember that earlier this year I asked him a question on the proposed re-entry date and re-entry path for Skylab. Now that we seem to be getting very much closer to that event, can the Minister update our information on where Skylab is likely to come to earth and at what time? 
I draw the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate to the announcement made yesterday that  Mrs Margaret  Thatcher, the British Prime Minister, will visit Australia in the early part of next month. Is this further evidence of the high international regard that Australia's economic recovery is attracting? 
-I will speak very briefly- in fact only for about ten minutes- in support of the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. At a later date, when I have a bit more time, I will go a bit more deeply into the background of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and expand on its great significance to Australia. I will do that in an attempt to dispel some of the ignorance we have seen portrayed today. There has been some recent ill-informed criticism of the whole operation of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I suppose that has always existed ever since Nagasaki and Hiroshima. This criticism basically comes from people who lack scientific training and who do not understand what is involved. We had a little diatribe a while ago from  Mr Hayden  on a scheme written by one of his supporters whom I will not name in public. Fortunately, that scheme sunk without a trace although I note that  Senator Tate  resurrected it this afternoon. I do not want to discuss the Hayden scheme in detail beyond saying that it contains some party dogma in that it seeks to create three authorities where one exists at the present time. Given the present circumstances in Australia, given the high capital cost of the nuclear industry and given the scarcity of trained scientific workers in this field, the type of operation we are running at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at the present time from a management point of view is the best that we can do. 
The original Act was passed in 1953. Australia has benefited enormously both within the country from our scientific research and in our international standing as a result of the effort we have put into this field. There is a need to produce uranium in the world. The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commission to raise money so that it can expand its commercial operations. 
There has been some talk this afternoon about the desirability of somehow or other pretending that the nuclear industry does not exist. The sheer illogicality of this staggers me. Nuclear power stations do exist. They are a fact of life. In fact 199 nuclear power stations operate today around the world, 209 are being built and another 106 are on order. Countries are not building nuclear power stations to annoy the environmentalists or the people who get frightened by radiation. They are building the nuclear power stations because they need them to maintain the welfare of their people and their industries. For example, the United States of America generates 13 per cent of all its power from nuclear sources. In addition, 50 per cent of that country's oil is imported. There is no way that the United States can suddenly overnight withdraw 13 per cent of its power segment which comes from nuclear sources. That is a fact of life. Parts of Europe, Japan and the Republic of Korea have very high imports of hydrocarbons. These countries need nuclear energy in the short term to provide them with a source of power. 

 Senator Melzer quoted  Mr Schlesinger  of the United States Administration as saying that the great nuclear boom will never come. I do not believe we will have a great nuclear boom. What I am saying is that we do need nuclear power stations because they are established and they cannot be substituted overnight. Given that fact of life, while we have a resource and while people are prepared to buy it then I think we have an obligation to market it for the benefit of our own people. This Bill deals with the commercial activities of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and it sets up a base on which the Commission can give loan guarantees and things of that nature. I think it is relevant to look at the commercial activities of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission up until the present time because they have been of enormous benefit to Australia. Furthermore, the Commission has provided services to Australia that were not obtainable from any other source. Most importantly the record of the Commission in this field has been one of utter responsibility to the community at large. 
The Commission has undertaken activities in the fields of agriculture, industry, mining, medicine and research. Industrially the Commission has involved itself with the sterilisation of instruments, catgut, pharmaceutical requirements and so on in the medical field. It has made a major contribution in the field of diagnostic medicine with the provision of radioactive isotope services. In 1976-77 the Commission made 36,000 shipments of radioactive isotopes to hospitals around Australia. This is a very important community service. If that service had not come from an Australian source it is quite possible that Australian medicine would not have had access to this very important diagnostic tool. The radioactive isotopes used in diagnostic medicine necessarily have a very short half-life. They have to be taken from a reactor or source of production to a hospital in minimal time. As a result it would just not be possible to import them from overseas. 
The Commission has made a major contribution in the field of therapeutic medicine with the use of cobalt 60 in radio-therapy for the treatment of malignancies. Furthermore, the Commission has developed a very big export market in this field to Japan, Thailand, New Guinea, India and the United Kingdom. It has also developed high energy radiation for the preservation of food without refrigeration. It was responsible for the detection of termites in the entomological field. This had an application in the sleepers of the iron ore railways in Western Australia. The Commission has developed techniques for radioactive gauging, metrology and radiology with neutron beams on concealed solid structures. It has also developed a very extensive field in mining applications such as on-stream analysis of minerals and in the bulk analysis of copper and nickel. In the coal industry the Commission has determined the level of combustible volatiles in coal dust and this information is used in the prevention of explosions. It has also looked at the ash content of coal. 
The Commission has also operated in the water resources area in my own State of Queensland with aquifers in the Burdekin delta under the Alice Springs basin. The Commission has moved into the field of radiochemical analysis, with important forensic applications- the identification of micro samples of hair, clothing, tissue and the like- and its work has had parallel industrial assay applications. 
One of the interesting things that have come out of its work has been in relation to coal-fired thermal stations for the generation of power. One of the implied arguments against the use of nuclear power generation is that other forms are utterly safe. I regret that I do not have with me the figures released by the United States Department of Public Health on the effect of coal-fired thermal stations on the health of the American population, but that effect is considerable. I refer to the number of deaths that arise from the pollution of the air, principally by the release of sulphur dioxide, and to the large number of respiratory, chronic asthma and bronchitis cases which result. It has been well recognised for a very long while that the burning of solid fuels by thermal stations does have a very real social price. 
An interesting correlation may be drawn between the burning of solid fuels and the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere. Whenever we burn coal we increase the amount of carbon dioxide in the earth's environment and its atmospheric envelope. The following figures might be of interest to the Senate. In the 75 years from 1900 to 1975, the production of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased from 2,000 million tons in 1900 to 18,000,000 tons in 1975. The effect is to delay the escape of radiation that is reflected back from the earth through the atmosphere into space, with the potentiality for increasing the ambient temperature of the earth's air. Since carbon dioxide has a very long life in the atmosphere- no-one knows precisely how long it remains in a residual concentration, but it is of the order of hundreds or thousands of years- to increase the number of coal-fired thermal generating stations does exact a real price in terms of the ecology of the earth 's environment. 
On the micro scale some very interesting figures have turned up recently in relation to what might be termed trace elements in coal. The figures that I shall quote are based on an extrapolation of data published by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Using the 1976-77 year, it was estimated that 20 million tonnes of black coal were burnt annually in Australia. Further, that quite a large variety of trace elements were released into the atmosphere of this country as a result of what is generally assumed to be the harmless pastime of burning coal to generate electrical energy. In those 20 million tonnes of black coal there were present 40 tonnes of uranium, 60 tonnes of thorium, 120 tonnes of arsenic, 20 tonnes of thallium, 2 tonnes of mercury, 10 tonnes of cadmium, 2,000 tonnes of zinc, 16 tonnes of selenium, 500 tonnes of lead, 400 tonnes of nickel and 6 tonnes of antimony. Those trace elements represent a significant fraction of the whole. When one considers them on the basis of an individual tonne, the percentage concentrations are probably expressed in parts per million, but when we are burning 20 million tonnes a year the cumulative effect is significant. 
A large proportion- it is a variable fractiongoes up the chimney as stack gas and is released as a volatile element, to be precipitated generally over the community. 
In the case of arsenic, 90 per cent goes up the chimney, so that of the 120 tonnes present in the 20 million tonnes of coal, some 1 10 tonnes are released over Australia each year. Arsenic is well known as a carcinogen. It is even better known as a toxic agent which is famed in literature for use in getting rid of people. It cannot be said that to release 1 10 tonnes of arsenic into the air is of no consequence. Some 25 per cent of the thallium comes off as a volatile fraction. Thus 5 tonnes is released. Mercury is extremely toxic, in its vapour form particularly. Some 1.9 tonnes is ultimately released into the atmosphere. In the case of cadmium, some 50 per cent goes up the chimney as stack gas, so that five tonnes is released to the atmosphere. Zinc, whilst not as lethal as are the heavy metals, is certainly an extraordinary active allergen, and the release of 600 tonnes of zinc vapour to the atmosphere is an event of significance. I have mentioned these figures and seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the table that I have drawn up. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197906064_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. I mention those figures in passing to illustrate that when we analyse carefully situations that we have regarded as being relatively harmless, they can be seen to exact their own price. In contrast, there is a case for the comparative ecological cleanliness of the nuclear production of power. 
Those few descriptions of the commercial applications of the work of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission demonstrate the great benefit of the Commission to Australia and the air of responsibility with which it has judged its efforts. At a later date when more time is available I would like to develop more fully in the Senate the case of the scientific basis under which the management of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission is operated. I conclude my remarks at this point. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. By way of explanation, I inform the Minister that the Belmont rifle range, the principal range for civilian operations in Brisbane, is owned by the Commonwealth Government. Its use by the Defence Forces is very slight as they use either Greenbank or Enoggera. In view of the fact that the organisations which comprise the Queensland Shooting Association have assets of $ 1 Vim invested on the range without any lease agreement with the Commonwealth will the Minister either draw up lease agreements with these approved organisations as a matter of urgency or transfer the land to the State of Queensland, which is prepared to set up a trust to administer the range with guarantees that it can revert to the Commonwealth in times of national emergency? 
I wish to take the occasion of this first reading debate to speak on the defence needs of this country. Throughout out history Australia has been sheltered from the responsibility of providing for its own defence. We have been sheltered by our traditional allies and to a lesser extent by the fact that our near neighbours in South East Asia have relatively stable governments with armed forces that often were technologically inferior to our own. These circumstances no longer apply. We no longer have the unqualified support of our allies. The ability of any European power to help Australia is severely limited. The ANZUS pact provides the only treaty support for Australia, and that is a very qualified document which certainly does not provide a water-tight commitment for the United States. 
The United States support for Australia could conceivably be compromised by another nation's interests. There are also circumstances where, if the United States wished to help, it would not be able to do so because of higher priorities. In a major conflict the United States has defined its priorities as being Western Europe, Japan and then Australia- in that sequence. In the foreseeable future South East Asia will have areas of instability. There may well be governments with objectives and ideals different from our own. As the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has frequently said, peace in our region could be shattered without warning by an assassin's bullet. Nor can we assume that the armed forces of South East Asia will necessarily be technologically inferior to our own. 
Imposed on this political pattern in South East Asia we have the superpower ambitions of the Soviets and their objective of encircling and containing China by setting up bases and client regimes in the Indian Ocean and in South East Asia. These circumstances differ fundamentally from those in existence 20 years ago. The responsibility for coping with the defence consequences of these changes is ours and ours alone. 
What are the threats that face Australia? At the present time there are no actual threats, but evidence of the fact that these circumstances can change overnight is the invasion of Kampuchea by Vietnam and the later invasion of Vietnam by China. In the doctrine of no actual threat there are no grounds for complacency. World War II ran for some years- from 1939 to 1942- without any direct military threat to Australia. But then the threat became very real. 
Let us look at some of the possible threats to Australia. Potential threats fall into two broad categories: A resource grab and/or interception of our seaborn trade. Interception of sea trade is an unlikely eventuality. We have no large merchant marine fleet. Our cargoes move in foreign bottoms. Any aggressor would be attacking the ships of another nation. Those nations would not permit their ships to sail under Australian convoy escorts. They would withdraw their ships from the trade or use their own escorts. 
That is a good point,  Senator Tate.  It is important to appreciate this in view of the major campaign being waged for a new carrier to replace  HMAS Melbourne.  The case for this and for other major surface ships is based principally, but not exclusively, on the need for convoy escort duties. In an age of satellites, when the precise position of surface ships can be updated every few minutes, and with missile technology, the only place to survive is under the water, except for the massive fleets of the superpowers. The threat that Australia faces comes from our resource base. Most people think of invasion in terms of the capture of cities and factories. They think of the south-east corner of Australia as being the essential ground to hold. Who would want factories with their union problems? What army commander would want to become involved in taking the big southern cities which, if they were defended by a wellmotivated defence force, could be as expensive an exercise as Stalingrad? It is simply not a cost effective exercise, even for a major power. 
The converse is true. Australia is attractive because of its great resources- the coal in central Queensland, the iron ore at the Pilbara, the alumina at Weipa and the great expanses of tropical farmland. The essential ground in Australia is the northern half. It is possible that some nation would wish to invade and capture one or more of our resources. Our defence requirements, therefore, are to protect our extended economic zone- and our fishing and seabed rights- to prevent migration occurring by force and not in accordance with our wishes and to deny occupation of any resource areas to invading forces. This is something we can do on our own if only we set our minds to it and get our priorities right. Our objective must be to provide a deterrent force strong enough that it is simply not worth while anyone taking us on, as was the case with Switzerland and Sweden in the Second World War. 
The biggest problems we face in providing this defence is that people either believe that it is beyond us or that there simply is no threat. The first argument is not true. We can defend this country. The second argument is also not true. The advocates of this case ask: ' Who is going to attack us today?' They follow up this argument with statements to the effect that only the United States of America and Soviet Russia have the logistic resources to land an army on this continent. Threats, however, develop very quickly. The time frame is months, not 10 or 15 years. The Soviet Union has developed a capacity to transfer technology and arms quite rapidly around the world. We need a lead time of the order of 10 years to marshal our resources. The 'no threat today' people are thinking of by-gone wars and of different weapons systems. If we sacrificed enough lives we gained enough breathing space to get ready. Those days are gone. Defence capacity cannot be considered solely in terms of arms or manpower. The defence of this country involves three interrelated areas- the development of the actual Defence Force, the maintenance of a sound economy and the development of regional stability through our foreign policy. 
What are our assets from a defence point of view? The first great asset we have are the present services. Whilst they are few in number, they are very competent and very professional. They form a superb nucleus on which to expand provided they have the time to do so. The problem that the Services face is not one of our own making but of the society that supports them. Here I must pay tribute to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Jim  Killen- probably the best Defence Minister this country has had- who has fought valiantly in Government for a higher priority for his portfolio. The second asset was have is geographical. Australia is an island. Anyone invading this country has very considerable logistic problems to overcome and long and vulnerable lines of communication to maintain. 
The final point, and certainly not the least, concerns the great revolution in weapons technology- a revolution which is every bit as important as the invention of gunpowder. Current weapons systems give us the means to defend our geographical position with our low population numbers. We can equalise the huge imbalance of numbers with our neighbours, at a cost which is economically manageable. With electronic intelligence and surveillance equipment- some of it unmanned- and with missile technology, we have the ability to cover those vast areas of this continent in a way we have never done before. How can all this be done? 
The very first task is to educate the public to recognise that we are at risk and that we can be secure. When the need is recognised we can move to develop the industrial base, the weapons systems and the forces we need. This year we will spend $2, 500m on defence. That sounds like a great deal of money, but it is only as much as we spend on education, it is less than we spend on health and it is only a third of what we spend on social security and welfare. We are buying an enormous amount of social security, but how much national security are we buying? I do not believe social security can survive without national security. 
We spend 2.7 per cent of our gross domestic product on defence which is one of the lowest percentages in the world. The Soviets spend 13 per cent, and the United States of America 6 per cent. Even Britain, with all its economic problems, spends 5 per cent. The international consequences of this are twofold. First of all, no nation will be inclined to help us when we clearly have been making less effort than it has. Secondly, we need foreign capital to develop this country. Projects like the North West Shelf run into the thousands of millions of dollars and no overseas company will risk that sort of money if the host country will not make reasonable efforts to defend that investment. I therefore welcome recent statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that defence spending will be increased by 2 per cent in real terms in the coming Budget. It is a matter of high priority. 
The next step is the development of our industrial base to produce our own new weapons systems. We have maintained the factories to produce our own munitions and armaments and despite what is said in the newspapers, these are technically excellent organisations. They have certainly suffered from not having had enough money spent on them over the years, but the staff are very capable. We should aim for self-reliance industrially for our own production is the only source on which we can rely in time of need. It also makes good sense economically for it provides employment and very considerably helps our balance of payments. We should be looking at designing our own weapons systems. Our operational requirements are never the same as those of Europe and North America. As Ikara and BARRA have shown, we have the ability to design and build world class systems. We have the potential for a considerable export market in sales to friendly regional governments. It is very much part of our defence to have stable governments in the region and to see that they have a capacity to defend themselves. 
Some equipment, such as the tactical fighter force replacement, will need to be bought overseas but the overwhelming majority can be of our own design and production. 
That is the point I am making. In association with this move, the three Services will have to develop and refine contingency plans. They will have to look at what numbers of servicemen they can reasonably expect to have in uniform in peace time. That may well be much the same as at present. Clearly, these numbers will be quite inadequate in an emergency and numbers will have to be brought up quickly by reservists. A complete reappraisal of our reserve system is required. We will need a level of reservists many times what we have today, at higher levels of training and with clear tasks assigned to them so they can have incentives and goals in their training. A great deal of creative thought has to be put into this reserve program. Whether or not Australia becomes involved in any regional instability in the area is a matter for conjecture. If we do become involved, we will certainly have to rely on our own resources. I believe we can look after ourselves if we get our priorities right. The time to do it is now so that by 1 990 we have attained that goal. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. As the announcement appears imminent of the selection as the main artillery weapon of the Australian Army of the 155 millimetre gun, which will be of overseas design and possibly of overseas manufacture, will the Minister initiate the design and manufacture of a close-support infantry weapon to replace the 105 millimetre gun at present in service, which is at least 45 years old? By way of information, all the research and development activity in ordnance around the world is directed towards 155 millimetre and heavier calibres, for the obvious reason that they permit the development of precision - 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, ls it a fact that between 1972 and 1975 oil exploration, as measured by the number of wells drilled, declined to a negligible figure and that since 1975 oil exploration has been re-established in this country? Is it also a fact that no incentive will be given to oil explorers in their search for oil if a secondary profits-related resources tax, which is now the inflexible and committed policy of the Australian Labor Party, is imposed on the oil industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I ask: Apart from the many technological and financial advantages accruing to the Australian community from the construction in north Queensland of an enrichment plant for uranium oxide, can the Minister define any proven hazards from such a venture? Are not such fears completely groundless? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the tourist industry has reacted very favourably to the 2V4 per cent depreciation allowance on new accommodation granted in last week's successful Budget? In the light of this enthusiastic response, will the Minister convey to the Minister  for Transport the desirability of allowing TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia to operate between north Queensland and South East Asian and Pacific regions so that direct international flights can be made to the Great Barrier Reef airfields of Cairns, Townsville, Mackay and Proserpine, thereby generating fresh income for Australia and deferring the huge cost of upgrading one of the northern airfields to take Boeing 747s? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and concerns the announcement last week by the Government that it is making $400,000 available this year and for the next two years, a total of $1.2m, for marine science research. Will these funds be taken from existing Australian Research Grants Committee grants to the detriment of other research projects, as stated by  Senator Button  in his speech to the Senate on 22 August 1979? 
The honourable senator should read the  Hansard  record. Is it a fact that the Australian Institute of Marine Science, which is expected to be one of the beneficiaries of this increased funding, was an initiative of the Gorton Liberal-National Country Party Government; that the necessary legislation was introduced in 1972 by the present Prime Minister when he was Minister for Education and Science; and that the AIMS is not, to quote from the honourable senator's speech, 'a most important institution established by the Whitlam Government'? If the answer to any or all of those questions is yes, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate make time available at the end of Question time for  Senator Button  to apologise to the chamber for misleading the Senate and allow the honourable senator the opportunity to explain whether it was ignorance, malice or sophistry which motivated him to make his speech? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Will the entitlement to repatriation benefits proposed in the present Budget for those men and women who served in Allied armed forces be restricted to those persons resident in Australia who have taken out Australian citizenship? What evidence of service will be required? Must they have been and be able to prove that they were bona fide servicemen and women in regular and legally constituted armed forces? 
I wish to follow  Senator Martin's  remarks with some remarks on a personal level. I will not cover as comprehensively the ground covered by  Senator Martin.  However, it has been reported to me that today  Senator McLaren,  following the tabling of manifests of VIP flights, named me as one of the passengers. It was alleged also that there was some degree of impropriety in my being a passenger. The basis of the alleged impropriety is similar to that applied to  Senator Martin. Senator McLaren  did not understand how, as senators, we could be passengers on such a flight. Having established that point, he went on to say that he was not aware that the rules had been changed. 
The first point I make for the record is that I was a passenger on a series of VIP flights during the parliamentary recess. According to my diary, that would have occurred on 13, 14 and 15 June this year. The track we flew was from Rockhampton to Gladstone and from Gladstone to Emerald by Hawker-Siddeley 748 of No. 34 Squadron; from Emerald to South Blackwater, to Norwich Park, Dysart, Moranbah- through all the great coal fields of the Bowen Basin- to 
Mackay by Chinook; from Mackay to Hay Point and from Hay Point to Mackay by Chinook; and from Mackay to Winton and from Winton to Brisbane by Hawker-Siddeley 748. Those flights were undertaken on legitimate electorate business and at the express invitation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I was asked to accompany him on his tour. The tour was very favourably received, as honourable senators would expect. As the Prime Minister and two of the famous senators from Queensland were travelling through that area the tour was widely reported in the Press, with both pictures and texts. It had radio and television coverage. In fact, a very large Press corps travelled with the Prime Minister. That was not referred to by  Senator McLaren. 
My source of information on this matter is the same as  Senator Martin's.  We went to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  the Minister responsible for the operation of VIP flights, and obtained a document headed 'Rules for the Use of RAAF VIP Aircraft for VIP and VIP Party Travel'. Rule 1 provides: 
Members of the British Royal Family 
The Governor-General 
The Prime Minister are their own approving authority and are responsible for approving persons travelling as a member of their party. 
I shall put that in plain words so that  Senator McLaren,  if he ever returns to this chamber, will be able to follow them. It means that the Prime Minister has the responsibility of approving the travel of other persons on a flight which he undertakes. That establishes in black and white the legality of  Senator Martin  and me being passengers on those flights in Queensland. If we need any support for that, Rule 7 of the current Rules states: 
In each instance the travel in VIP aircraft by a member of a VIP party is subject to the approval of the approving authority concerned. 
There are no grounds for suggesting that there was no justification for  Senator Martin  and me travelling on those flights. The rules permit us to undertake such travel. From my understanding, the rules have been in existence for quite a few years because they refer to a Minister for Air and the Department of Civil Aviation, and both the position of Minister for Air and the Department of Civil Aviation were abolished quite some time ago. I find no grounds to support  Senator McLaren's  case. I am grateful for this opportunity to put the record straight. 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the Sydney Stock Exchange index yesterday was very close to the record height of January 1970, being at 662.89 points for the all ordinaries index, only 0.59 of a point under the record of 663.48 points? Is the Minister aware that the mining index, which is at 3,616.41 points, has reached a nineyear peak? Is there an inverse relationship between high inflation rates, and the expectation of high inflation rates, and stock prices? In other words, do stock market indices tend to fall, not rise, when inflation rises? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. With reference to his public announcement today on the release by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation of a new strain of lucerne which is resistant to two different parasites or diseases, I ask: Is this new variety suitable for growing in all parts of Australia where lucerne is subject to attack? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President,  as the officer responsible for this building. I ask: Do all the food handling facilities in this building comply with the standards of hygiene laid down by public health authorities? Secondly, is the design of the equipment such that adequate levels of service can be maintained and what routine microbiological investigations are made? You are aware of my high regard and respect for the staff of the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms for their unfailing courtesy and efficiency. My concern is that they may have to operate with equipment which prevents them from doing their best. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of renewed calls by the Queensland Government for Federal initiatives to investigate the reopening of the Duchess phosphate mine in north-west Queensland? Considering that Australia's supplies of phosphate rock from Ocean Island are expected to cease this year and that the economic viability of Christmas Island is in doubt, what action will the Government take to ensure that Australian primary producers will be guaranteed supplies of indigenous phosphate? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen the report in this morning's  Age  that  Mr Iwasaki  has been buying Queensland property- and I quote from that article-'in contradiction of his agreement with the Federal Government'? Did  Mr Iwasaki  have a contract with the Foreign Investment Review Board to limit his land holdings to the boundaries set out in the franchise agreement with the Queensland Government? Did the undertaking with the Foreign Investment Review Board not only prevent the acquisition of further land but also require Federal Government approval before  Mr Iwasaki-  and I quote again from the article- 'made any agreement about more land, signed any contracts or even negotiated about any more land in Australia'? In the light of the documented allegations in this article in the  Age  that  Mr Iwasaki  is actively purchasing land in addition to the very large holdings which he already owns under the franchise agreement and if  Mr Iwasaki  did enter into a contract with the Commonwealth of Australia in the terms outlined, will the Government take immediate action to sec that the terms of this contract are honoured? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I ask: Is the Minister aware that in 1977-78 sales of avgas represented only 0.3 per cent of total gasolene sales in Australia? Is the Minister also aware that for a considerable period, up to May of this year, avgas was the same price as motor spirit? In view of the fact that avgas is a necessity, not a luxury in rural Australia, will the Government give immediate consideration to including the cost of avgas in the motor spirit pricing structure, thus ending up with the same price for each product? 
It is a great pleasure to be speaking in support of this Budget, a Budget that has been so well received by all sections of the Australian community. The Budget builds on the sound foundations of the two previous Budgets and it will maintain and accelerate the economic recovery of Australia. Like its two predecessors, it makes no attempt at all at cosmetic pretences. It makes no attempt to buy votes or favours by using taxpayers ' money. (  Quorum formed). 
This country has had a long, hard road back from the economic excesses and irresponsibilities of the era from 1972 to 1975. The journey back has been worthwhile, because it has been a successful one. Whilst the war is still on a major battle has been won. We have reduced the inflation rate from the dizzy heights at which it stood during the period of the Labor regime and, most importantly, we have reduced our inflation rate below that of our major trading partners and competitors. We have restrained the more irresponsible elements in the union movement and we have made considerable progress in making Australian industry competitive by improving management techniques and equipment. 
We have come a long way, and we are now in a favourable economic position. If anyone doubts that, let him look at the current state of the stock market. In times of high inflation and, more importantly, in times of expectation of high inflation, the stock market falls because stocks and shares do not represent an attractive investment. The present boom on the stock market is a genuine and massive vote of confidence in the Government's economic policies. We are not out of the woods yet. To give one international example to support that contention, we could be faced with a serious problem if one of the major countries in the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries ceased to be a supplier to the world markets. Possibly the biggest threat in this country stems from the dominance of the Marxist Left of the Australian Labor Party and the union movement, a threat of such magnitude that it has driven the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions out of his job, and he is attempting to find another one. 
Despite these problems, and they can be dealt with, the fact remains that Australia possesses very great economic strength. We are an energy rich country. We are probably the richest country in energy amongst the industrialised nations. We have enormous reserves of minerals and raw materials and, most importantly, we have a highly educated and intelligent population. If anyone doubts our future he should look at the billions of dollars which are firmly committed to development projects in Australia. The great aluminium refineries in Queensland are striking examples of the faith in our future. Those of us who were privileged to attend the meeting held in Parliament House last year with  Mr Herman  Kahn from the Hudson Institute will remember his saying that Australia had a great future which only a very peculiar and highly developed genius could destroy. He then went on to say that it very nearly happened in the immediate past. 
There has been very little criticism of any substance of the Budget. I wish to deal briefly with one sedulously cultivated myth that all we need to do to cure our problems is to spend more government money. That Keynesian approach works only in times of low inflation. Many countries have tried to buy their way out of problems, but in times of high inflation or stagflation it has not worked in one single case. The reason it does not work is that it does not address itself to the fundamental cause of the problem. It is a very cruel trick to play on the gullible members of the community to say that all we need to do is to open the Government's purse strings and increase the deficit. Having spent our way into the mess that we are in, or having been spent into it by the Labor Government, how can a continuation of the same policies lead to a recovery or amelioration? 
The first point I welcome in the Budget is the increase in the defence allocation, which is increased by $279m or 2.6 per cent in real terms over last year. This is a most necessary move because the percentage of our gross domestic product spent on defence is far less than that in most comparable countries. Given the high technology and long lead times of modern armament systems, we simply cannot afford to lag too far behind the rest of the world. Furthermore, the progressive increase in defence spending in this and future Budgets will allow greater participation of Australian industry. The awarding of the contract to Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd to build a new fleet supply ship for $70m is a good example of this. 
The second item in the Budget to which I refer is the recognition of marine science research. Australia has a great dearth of information on the sea around us. With the current declaration of the 200-mile fishing zone there is a pressing need for Australia to acquire greater scientific information about its marine resources. I particularly welcome the announcement by Cabinet that another 1 1 scientists will be appointed to the Australian Institute of Marine Science and that the Government will provide the support facilities for them. Furthermore, the promise to provide $1.2m for research into marine matters, of which $300,000 a year will be spent on the Great Barrier Reef, is something which will benefit Australia enormously. 
The final matter which I wish to comment on is the increase of almost $ 14m in the appropriation to the Department of Productivity. This new department has had very little publicity, but its increased allocation is one of the fundamental moves being made by this Government to improve our economic wellbeing.  (Quorum formed).  It is a pity that senators from the Labor Party and the Australian Democrats cannot find time to come into the chamber occasionally. Our proceedings have been held up twice by the calling of a quorum because of the lack of Labor Party senators in the chamber. The Department of Productivity has a brief to make Australian industry as competitive as any in the world. It is doing this very effectively by encouraging innovative designs and inventions through the industrial research and development grants, lt is aiding the transfer of the latest technology to industry and educating management in improved management techniques. Finally, it is fostering the introduction of new high technology industries, of which the commercial production of the Australian invention 'InterScan' is a good example. Quietly and effectively, in partnership with private enterprise, the Department of Productivity is playing a very important role in our economic affairs. 
I must in all honesty refer to two areas in the Budget which cause me some disquiet. The first concerns social security and welfare. Whilst supporting and applauding the humanitarian reasons behind this appropriation, I think that it is timely to draw attention to the magnitude of the task that the Australian people have assumed in servicing social welfare policies which now total yearly nearly $9,000m- 9.6 per cent more than last year's outlay- and representing more than 28 per cent of all Federal Budget expenditure. This reflects society's higher and higher expectations of support from the public purse. All of those expectations are eminently reasonable, but there is a definite end to the capacity of the community to pay for those services, particularly when we have zero population growth and an increasingly aged population. I am reminded of that fact when I look at the few senators who at the moment occupy the Opposition benches. Somewhere there has to be an end to expansion and, furthermore, an evaluation of what services we are to provide, and to whom. 
Firstly, there has been an increase in the number of people receiving benefits. Secondly, there has been an increase in the benefit rate itself. To illustrate the increase in the numbers receiving benefits, we can cite the ratio of wage and salary earners to pensioners. Ten years ago each pensioner was supported by about five workers. Today each pensioner is supported by closer to 2.5, certainly less than three workers- even though the number in the work force has increased. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Coleman)-  I am sure that  Senator 
MacGibbon has in front of him copious notes. I draw his attention to the Standing Order. 
Madam Acting Deputy President, I am speaking from very copious notes, on which I have worked at length, because I wish to be accurate when I speak. 

 Senator Walters- I wish to raise a point of order.  Senator Walsh  is out of order in interjecting from a place other than his own. I ask that he be called to order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I remind the Senate that an honourable senator who intends interjecting should first ensure that he or she is sitting in his or her correct place. I ask  Senator MacGibbon  to address his remarks to the Chair. 
My apologies, Madam Acting  Deputy President.  I was overcome by the brilliance of the remarks that were made to me. As regards the increases in benefits paid, we have gone from an expenditure in fiscal 1969-70 of $ 1,269m to an expenditure today of $8, 925m, which in monetary terms represents about a 700 per cent increase in ten years. All things considered, that is quite a staggering increase. 
Some other aspects of welfare merit our attention. The biggest expenditure in the area of social welfare is upon the age pension and amounts to $3, 625m annually. Only a few years ago the age pension was seen as a supplement for those in need not as a universal benefit. If we see the age pension as being awarded only on the basis of need, we can save a considerable amount in the Budget. But that can be done only if we provide adequate incentives and rewards through the taxation system to encourage people to provide for themselves. On the other hand, if we see the age pension as a universal right, we are virtually operating a national superannuation scheme; but we are doing so without setting up a national fund to support it. We are paying for it out of income and not on any actuarial basis whatever. Apart from these considerations, there is a great need for the Government to develop a facility for self-employed persons to operate their own superannuation schemes. That would take some of the pressure off the many attempts now made to form tax evasion schemes. 
My second general observation on welfare concerns the way in which the Government has become its own sub-contractor in providing many welfare services. I would prefer that the Government worked through the reputable and established charitable organisations, whether they be church-based, such as the St Vincent de Paul Society or the Salvation Army, or community-based such as Legacy. Those organisations have a compassion, a dedication, an efficiency and an insight into the real needs of the community that no public service can ever attain. 
Any discussion of Budget outlays must lead to a discussion of Budget receipts or taxes. No Parliamentarian in this chamber can be oblivious to the raging ferment in the country concerning income taxation. Taxation is universally seen as being too high, and the Income Tax Act as too complex to administer. Let me reject firmly the notion that income tax should be replaced by a retail turnover tax, a value-added tax or any other increase in indirect taxation which in Australia, as anyone who has tried to buy a car or a bottle of whisky knows, is not low. The unjust and untenable aspect of increasing indirect taxation is that it hits the poorest hardest. One of the myths about indirect taxation is that it is a discretionary tax. In other words, if you choose not to spend, you choose not to pay tax. That may be true, but what about the low income earners? What about the people, of whom there are very many, who have to spend 100 per cent of their income in order to live? They have no choice but to pay tax on everything that they buy. 
To return to the point that I made some moments ago in regard to the growing tax revolt, I say that the answer is not to evade the root cause of the problem by setting up alternative taxing schemes, but rather to cut tax rates. Hand in hand with this, the Income Tax Act needs to be thrown out and replaced by a simplified Act. The first point to note is that the Government should cease viewing the general public and the business world as an endless source of money. I cannot believe that every program that is funded under the Budget is essential to Australia. I cannot believe that some could not be dispensed with, that some could not be performed just as well by private enterprise. I cannot believe that we do not duplicate some services that are performed by the States. 
I am well aware that the consequences of lowering taxation are that some services have to be cut or eliminated. I do not shrink from that proposition, nor should any government, because the Australian community is far more sophisticated than it was 10 years ago. It would be quite impossible today for a  Mr Hayden  to come along and sell a universal health scheme, covering everyone for $120m, such as he did between 1 970 and 1 972. The majority of people realise that governments cannot do everything. They realise that governments, whatever their political affiliation, are notoriously inept at running commercial enterprises- and so many of the ventures that governments get into today possess a commercial element. We seem to be locked into a situation in which, whenever a program is funded it becomes sacrosanct and embalmed forever in the catacombs of the Treasury. 
I will be glad to enlighten the honourable senator. The present Income Tax Act needs to be replaced. It is not an overstatement to say that most of Australia's problems are attributable to this one Act. It gives incentive to neither employees nor employers, so commercial initiative, which is the life-blood of our society, is repressed. It encourages, by its very complexity, evasion of income tax and dishonesty. Thereby it puts at risk one of the basic tenets of our culture, which is respect for the rule of law. No member of this Parliament can be happy about the incidence of tax evasion, or the alternate currency, or any of the consequences of those actions, or of where the society is going. 
There is no justification for the Government's taking more from a dollar than the worker takes. The maximum rate of taxation should not exceed 50c in the dollar. There is no reason to penalise efforts by taxing overtime at punitive rates. At present there is no reward for either employers or employees in regard to overtime and I see no reason why such payments should not be tax free. After all, that is what is going on in the real world and it is working very well in practice. By lowering taxation, stimulating commerce and producing new wealth, in short by using taxation in a creative way- not in a negative way by trying to redistribute income around the community- the shortfall in taxation will be made up and we will all be better off. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Does the Government possess a completely independent source of information on the oil industry? Is the Government in a position to make its own evaluation of  the oil market, both within Australia and overseas, concerning such important matters as availability and volume of product, prices, tanker availability and charter rates, or is the Government dependent on the oil industry for this critical information? 
I wish to speak tonight on a matter of some importance to Australia. I apologise for taking the Senate's time at this late hour. The matter to which I refer will come up for final signing and agreement on the 1 7th of this month. I feel that it is advisable at this time to put a point of view before the Parliament. Basically it relates to the Australian fishing zone about which  Mr Sinclair  made a speech in another place on 25 September 1979. The Australian fishing zone, which is 200 miles in extent, will provide protection for Australia's fishing rights. One of the obligations to the declaration of the zone is that we will have to sell or negotiate with other countries for the rights or resources we are not using. Once upon a time all those resources were part of the high seas and were used around the Australian coast by fishing fleets of foreign nations. 
The advantages of the declaration of the Australian fishing zone are many. It provides, first of all, a source of income for this country. It becomes a commercial venture. If properly handled it will provide a lot of research knowledge on fish stocks and fish movements that we do not- have. Not the least of all it will provide a policing action for us. The fishing fleets that we license to operate in the zone will exercise some policing and some intelligence gathering activity for us. The point of relevance in my talk tonight relates to the fishing agreement with Japan which presumably involves the whole of the Australian fishing zone for which it is said a licence fee will be charged of $ 1.4m a year. 
My point of concern is that the Japanese long liners will be allowed to operate in the marlin breeding grounds off the north Queensland coast. Long lining involves the use of considerable lengths of fishing line. The fishing line is dropped statically. It can range in length from 10 miles to 20 miles. It is even rumoured that it can be up to 50 miles in length. It is supported below the surface of the water by glass buoys. The line is identified by radar reflectors. The fishing hooks which are baited with shark bait or some other bait are suspended from the line beneath the water. It can run, as I said, for great distances. There can be up to 20,000 hooks on the long line itself. 
The characteristic of long line fishing is that the line is sometimes put out for two or three days before it is recovered. In those cases, of course, the fish are nearly always drowned. They are dead when the parent vessel comes back to recover them. So, there is no opportunity for the parent vessel to release a species of fish that is protected or it is wished to protect if it is inadvertently caught. That is really the critical feature of long lining. It is a non-specific way of operating. The Japanese are not fishing specifically for black marlin off the north Queensland coast. In fact, they deny that they have any interest in this species at all. But it is rumoured from fishermen who know the area and who have been on Japanese fishing boats that at certain times of the year up to 40 per cent of the catch on the Japanese long liners is black marlin. Furthermore, if one looks at the economic returns for the Japanese fish market, one will see that black marlin enjoys a premium price on that market. So it is certainly not an economic loss to the Japanese fishermen. It is perfectly true that long liners have been operating for many years off the Queensland coast and therefore it is perfectly valid to say: 'What is different? Thay have been doing it for years. What is the problem? We are now going to get some money from it'. Later I will cite a few figures on long lining and the catches taken and show that there has been a decrease in the catch, based on Japanese figures. 
The three aspects that I would like to consider in relation to this matter are, first of all, the black marlin and its life cycle; secondly, any evidence that exists of management problems of the stock of fish; and thirdly, the value to Australia of the black marlin industry. The black marlin is one of the bill fish family, which includes sail fish, blue marlin, black marlin, striped marlin, white marlin, and the swordfish. The black marlinMakauira Indica- is the biggest of all the bill fish, but unfortunately it exists in the smallest numbers. It has the smallest bio-mass of any of them. It is a migratory fish, and not much is known about its life cycle. However, there is evidence that it spawns between July and December on the seaward side of the Barrier Reef. The area that seems to be favoured for spawning extends from about 200 nautical miles north of Cairns to about 200 miles south of Cairns on the eastern side of the Great Barrier Reef. That is the only known breeding ground of the black marlin. There may be others, but we are not aware of them yet. The characteristics of this species are that it has a very small bio-mass as opposed to some of the other marlin species. There are very large numbers of some of the other marlin species- the blue and the striped marlin- and the statistics available from Japanese fisheries sources show that there is no significant change in the catch of some of those other species but there is evidence of a significant decrease in the black marlin catch. 
That brings me to the second point I wish to raise: Is there any evidence of over-fishing? We have certainly seen signs of over-fishing of whales, and that subject has been discussed in this Parliament within the last 12 months. We do not want to move into a position with the black marlin similar to that of the whales. The first evidence of over-fishing is to be found in the report of the Food and Agriculture Organisation for 1977, which shows that the Japanese take of black marlin, which was 2,200 metric tonnes in 1971, was down to 772 metric tonnes in 1976, or about one-third of the catch five years previously. Any harvesting, whether on land or sea, is subject to variation and seasonal takes vary, but the accurate figures, based on Japanese sources, are as follows: From 2,200 tonnes in 1971 the catch went down to 1,800 tonnes in 1972; 1,500 tonnes in 1973; 1,483 tonnes in 1974; 1,289 tonnes in 1975; and 772 tonnes in 1976. 
There is no variation. It is a straight line progression and it is all in the one direction. There has been a very severe decrease in the catch. The total Japanese bill fish take for the Japanese market is around 400,000 fish annually, or about 40,000 tonnes. The research division of the Fisheries Agency of Japan showed that for the period from 1970 to 1976 Japanese long liners took 24,500 black marlin  from  the West Coral Sea. Significantly, 19,000 of those fish taken between 1970 and 1976 were taken from the area in which the Cairns game fishing fleet operates. 
The second point of evidence of over-fishing is to be found in various research organisations around the world. I wish to quote from the 1978 newsletter of the United States Department of Commerce National Marine Fisheries Service at La Jolla- the South- West Fisheries Centre. This is a very well known marine research facility in the United States. As to the results of the 1977 Pacific bill fish angler survey the newsletter states: 
An average of 1 .2 fish per angler day was recorded for the period from 1971 through 1974. Since that time the catch rate has declined to about the 0.6 level in 1975-76. This represents about a 50 per cent reduction in catch rate from the 1971-74 level. 
Later on it states: 
Angler catch rates have declined in recent years and it is possible both commercial and sport fishing is impacting on the stock of black marlin, which is not large, in comparison to the bio-mass of other bill fish species in the Pacific such as the striped marlin, the blue marlin, black marlin, sail fish and swordfish. 
Recapitulating, 24,500 fish were taken by long liners in the West Coral Sea and, by contrast, recreational fishing off the Queensland coast takes fewer than 200 fish a year- 200 a year against 24,000 in a five-year period. Although 200 fish are taken, probably 1,000 fish are caught and brought to the ship's side and then released. Of that 1,000, 500 are tagged and 500 are released without tagging. The third point in relation to over-fishing is in the simple rule of thumb on which fisheries research people operate; that is, if more than 1 per cent of tagged fish are caught it is taken to be a sign of over-fishing. According to Japanese records for 1978, 14 tagged black marlin were captured by .their long liners; that is, 14 out of 500 fish that are released annually. It is a figure signficantly higher than 1 per cent. I believe there is evidence of over-fishing of the black marlin and, most significantly, this over-fishing is taking place in the breeding grounds. It is therefore far more potent because it is getting the breeding stock. 
Finally, what is the value to Australia of the black marlin industry? Cairns is the capital of black marlin fishing in the world. There are no other known sites where black marlin can be caught in such numbers. I have mentioned that fewer than 200 fish are taken each year, but in excess of 1,000 are caught and released. It is not true to say that we need only 200 fish a year to provide an industry. We need something like 1 ,200 fish to supply the sport industry. By way of comparison, the famous marlin fishing grounds used to be Cabo Blanco, Peru, where between 1950 and 1960 34 fish in excess of 1,000 lb in weight were caught. In Cairns more than 50 fish a year exceeding 1,000 lb are caught. It is a far more prolific fishing ground for black marlin sport fishing than has existed in the world before. From the point of view of capital investment, there are at least 40 vessels working out of Cairns or in the region and 120 fishermen on charter boats, to say nothing of the motels and the service industries that support this business. Boat hire alone is estimated to cost $ 1.25m a year. So we are looking at an industry with a capital involvement of many millions, and certainly it is earning Australia many millions of dollars a year through tourists from- overseas. Certainly it is earning considerably more than the $1.4m in licence fees that we will get from the Japanese. As I understand it, under the licensing agreement the region between 14 degrees 20 minutes south and 1 8 degrees south from the reef out to a distance of 12 nautical miles to the east will not be used by long liners. That is not an effective reserve for the fish stock. At sea, 12 nautical miles is a very short distance and permitting fishing on the borders of that area off the Great Barrier Reef, using long lines, will result in no protection at all being provided for the breeding stock. There is agreement between the interested parties in Australia- the game fishing organisations, the amateur fishing organisations and the fisheries bodies- that a region running from 13 degrees south to 1 8 degrees south and extending seaward for 100 nautical miles beyond the 200-metre isobath line is the minimum that we require. I believe that would provide adequate protection for the black marlin stock. It would preserve and enhance a very important industry for Australia. 
Very considerable public support for this move is building. Obviously, at present that support is most intense in Queensland but, if the daily papers of Sydney and Melbourne are any guide, it is also a very real issue in those cities. I believe that most Australians are concerned about preserving our resources. That is a very legitimate concern. We have made it clear that we will not tolerate people drilling for oil on the reef, and if we are concerned about the damage that drilling might bring to it we should certainly be concerned about the living resources, or biomass, of the reef. Certainly, the black marlin is part of that. We have been concerned about whales and other endangered species and, in the light of the figures that I have quoted, as to the decrease in the Japanese catches of black marlin from 2,200 metric tons to 772 metric tons over a five-year period, we have evidence that black marlin also is an endangered species. 
I realise that the negotiations seeking agreement with the Japanese Government have been quite difficult and protracted; that to arrive at the agreement that apparently has been reached has taken a great deal of work. However, upon probing the matter it becomes quite clear that, first, the biological implications for the black marlin were not appreciated; that this was an endangered resource was not appreciated. Secondly, I do not believe that the extent to which 
Australia benefits from this industry was appreciated. It is time that we restudied the agreement and renegotiated with the Japanese. In doing so we will preserve not only Australia's interests but also the long-term interests of Japan. Japan has a market for this fish and is interested in catching it. If the species disappears Japan will lose that market so, as much as has Australia, it has a vested interest in the resource. 
Any country that declares a 200-mile fishing zone gains rights and also accepts responsibilities. One of those rights is access to the fish resources and one of its responsibilities, to the world at large, is to preserve and manage those resources intelligently. 
I claim to have been misrepresented.  Senator Chipp  alleged that I made smart, snide and various other derogatory remarks during the course of his speech. It is not often that I have a chance to ask a question of  Senator Chipp  because he is not often here. I asked  Senator Chipp  to give one instance of when pressure was placed on him, when he was a Minister of the Crown, to conform to the wishes of an oil company. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. 
No, it is a gentle question this time. Is the Minister aware that evidence was given to Senate Estimates Committee E, in relation to the supply of Australian flags, that the Department of Administrative Services was having difficulties in getting the flags made? As there has been such a laudable and heavy demand for the flag in recent times- my office was advised recently that the delay was of the order of six months- will the Department consider placing orders with a Queensland flag maker who can supply the national ensign? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Government prepared to consider a reduction in excise on fuels blended on an organic sourced fuel such as ethanol? 
I compliment  Senator Puplick  on his wide-ranging and erudite remarks on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment which is before the Senate, particularly his remarks concerning the importance of science and technology to the Australian community. The importance of science and technology to Australia simply cannot be overstated. It will provide the only way for us to maintain our standard of living. Despite the comments of people from other political philosophies in the country- the neolithic and negative approach of redistribution of income and the rest- the only way in which we will maintain our standard of living-- 
I would be distressed if  Senator Georges  could not hear this. I agree that what I am saying is very important. The place held by science and technology in Australia is terribly important. It is only through the application of science and technology that we will maintain our standard of living and improve it and find a place which this country deserves with its people and its national resources. So even though I am a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, I cannot commend the Committee so strongly for what it has done. I do not believe that everything it has said in its report is necessarily correct, but if it has done something to attract attention to the importance of science and technology to Australia 's future it has done this country a very great service. I do not wish to speak for very long on this report. Unlike  Senator Puplick,  I do not wish to range over the whole subject of science and technology. I would like just to take one narrow point which is developed at page 235 of the report relating to tariff protection in Australia. The report states: 
However, the Committee wishes to point out that by offering a protected economic environment, any government to a large extent renders inoperative one of the outstanding factors which produce innovative activity: the profit motive. A history of protectionism has indelibly stamped Australian management's attitudes. 
Later the report states: 
We have bred, in fact, a generation of management and technicians in the manufacturing sector, many of whom have never operated outside the benevolent umbrella of borrowed processes and  bureaucratically-secured  domestic markets. 
The overall effect of tariff protection appears to be the creation of a manufacturing sector that is inward-looking, overly dependent on a small domestic market, and reluctant to look beyond its immediate situation in justifying the costs of research and development. This history of protection has also given rise to a widespread belief expressed by numerous witnesses during the inquiry, that injection of more government funds is the "universal panacea", the solution to all our research and development problems. 
I stress that that is not an attack on the trade unions or the workers, or anything like that. That is a very pungent statement on the shortcomings of management, which has been protected from the realities of life, the realities of the commercial world, the realities of competition and, above all, the realities of performing in the competitive market places of the world. That has been the tragic consequence of tariff protection in Australia. It started with the highest and most laudible motives, with a belief in creating industry and giving Australian industry and Australian workers a place in the world. That belief of supporting Australian workers and finding jobs for them is as essential today as it ever was. 
The point which needs to be made is that the way of ensuring that is different now in 1 979 and will be different in 1980, which we are now facing, from what it was in 1945 and 1950 when we started our heavy tariff protection. The solutions which we found to the problems of that time have just grown and grown and they no longer have any relevance to the needs of the Australian community. If we persist with this hallucination, this perversion of the truth, of delaying the reality of the international market place, of protecting more and more inefficient industries and keeping more and more people behind higher and higher tariff protections, we will face total economic collapse. I shall quote from an article which appeared in the  National Times  in September this year, which listed the following five effects of the extension of protectionism: 
New jobs will not become available at anything like the rate needed to keep up with the growing stream of job-seekers. 
Many of the jobs presently held by Australians will be increasingly at risk. 
More and more Australians will find themselves stuck with skills and training that have no long-term future- that are obsolete in international terms. 
Day to day economic activity- in the retailing sector, for example- will remain depressed as consumer doubts about inflation and unemployment restrict spending. 
When change does become inescapable, it is likely to be more savage in its impact and more expensive to cope with than it need have been. 
The people of this country are very talented. We have a lot of capable people who can work and produce something. While we run away from the realities of the marketplace by providing absurd tariff protection levels we cannot hope to compete with other nations. Not many people in this country realise the extent of tariff protection. Tariff protection in net subsidy equivalent is running at between $4,000m and $5,000m a year. That is a staggering proportion. There are two consequences of that. First of all, it means that every industry operating in this country produces goods which are loaded by that absurd and irrational tariff. The extreme case I can find is that of the bed sheeting industry, for which the subsidy equivalent is running at about $21,000 a person. I do not know what the subsidy equivalent is for the motor industry, but it is-- 
I am grateful for  Senator Mulvihill's  comment, but I make a plea for balance. There is an economic cost which can be exceeded. I think that in some industries, such as the clothing industry, we have gone beyond any reasonable limits. Certainly, I would agree that any proposition to abandon tariffs in Australia is unreal and irrational because the fundamental point is that, no matter how much money we earn from mining and mineral exports, from primary production- beef, wool and wheat- and all the other great things that we do, we will always be reliant upon manufacturing industry to provide creative and satisfying employment for the great majority of Australian people. We will always need some tariff protection for that. My plea is for a bit of sanity and balance so that that industry can grow and become bigger and so that we can earn more from the people in that industry. 
Right; that is what I am coming to. My fear- my nightmare- is the fact that there is no transformation time, there is no indication, that we will ever face up to the reality. When we have subsidies running at about $2 1 ,000 a year for people in the bed sheeting industry, we are in the cloud cuckoo world, the Mickey Mouse world of unreality and there is no future for the workers in that industry because there will come a time when that subsidy, no matter how great, cannot be sustained and those workers will be placed on the unemployed list. 
I believe that that will be a tragedy. Australia can compete. I have no doubts about that at all, I make a plea to the Government to take notice of the Crawford report on structural employment in the country, the Industries Assistance Commission report on manufacturing industries and, to a lesser degree, the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on industrial research and development in Australia. I think those reports make the point that only through high technology and the creation of new industries will new jobs be created and will Australia be able to perform and have its place in the sun. 
This matter is not restricted entirely to Australian internal affairs. If we could put a wall around this country and live within it that might be possible, but we are part of the community of nations and there is no way in which we can live in the context of nations adjoining this countrythe Association of South East Asian Nations group of countries, the Asian group of countries and the European group of countries- without trading with them. We cannot live in isolation. The classical point is the situation which prevails with the clothing industry. All my life I have heard that we cannot compete with low-cost Asian labor; that what we need is tariff protection, income tax concessions and all the rest so that we can modernise. We have gone through this exercise before. What have we got from the clothing industry? It still has a massive level of protection. The cost of ordinary run-of-the-mill shirts has risen from $5 to $17. A decent shirt costs about $35. It does not matter what people pay for a shirt, when they take it home and wash it for the first time the stitching falls out of the sleeves. Where are we going with this policy? We have supported the clothing industry for years. I make a differentiation between the clothing and textile industries. The policy has been completely self-defeating. 
Australia can perform. My plea is for a gradual change to realism, for a reduction in tariff protection. Unless this occurs we will not be able to employ people which is something which is necessary for the welfare of the Australian community. More importantly, we will not be able to compete as we need to do with the export markets in the minerals and primary production fields. I hope that as a national parliament we will be able to fulfil the great potential of Australia by legislating intelligently to overcome the inbuilt and unnecessary handicaps that we have. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report on Pollution of the Murray River 
Debate resumed from 7 June, on motion by  Senator Jessop: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Has the Minister seen the report in yesterday's  Australian  that 300 people were registered as unemployed in the Bowen area and that tomatoes worth hundreds of thousands of dollars in the Bowen area were rotting because local labour was unobtainable? Is this report true? If it is true, what action can be taken to induce the unemployed to accept employment? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the fishing agreement with Japan to be signed this afternoon provides for Australian observers to be present on Japanese fishing vessels? Can these observers be present on all Japanese ships at all times when in the Australian fishing zone? Will the Government give an undertaking to provide an adequate number of qualified observers for this purpose? Will the Government give an unqualified assurance that it will evaluate thoroughly and thoughtfully all the evidence pertaining to fish stocks, particularly makauira indica, in the Great Barrier Reef area in relation to the take of Japanese long-liners, when the agreement is renegotiated in 12 months' time? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. It follows a question asked by  Senator Bonner  earlier this afternoon. Is the Minister aware that one of the other reasons that the Federated Storemen and Packers Union in Queensland will not enrol Vietnamese migrants into the union is that when the Vietnamese get a job they work? Is this ludicrous, selfish and bullying action by the union an infringement of the Trade Practices Act or any other Commonwealth Act? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen the advertisements in the national Press by a supplier of office equipment which invites people to purchase those machines at normal retail prices and thereby gain a free trip to Hong Kong? The advertisements state: 
All payments are tax deductible for business purposes. You are also eligible for 20 per cent investment allowance as an additional tax deduction. 
Is this not an infringement of the Income Tax Assessment Act insofar as the cost is inflated to cover the cost of a trip to Hong Kong, this cost then being fully tax deductible and claimed for depreciation, thereby reducing a legitimate tax liability? Are the purchasers also gaining a taxfree benefit in return? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and follows the excellent question asked earlier today by  Senator Martin.  Since the Australia-Japan fishing agreement has a duration of only 12 months, that is, to the end of September 1980, when will the renegotiations start between the two governments? Will it be as early as February or March 1 980? 
My question is directed to the  Deputy  Leader of the Government. Is the Federal Government prepared to reexamine existing and proposed contracts for the sale of liquefied petroleum gas and liquid natural gas overseas in the light of the changed circumstances of the last 12 months with a view to preserving energy supplies which might be essential to Australia? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that on 12 November 1919 Ross and Keith Smith, Shiers and Bennett departed England to arrive in Australia 27 days 20 hours later, making the first aerial passage between Europe and Australia? What action will the national carrier, Qantas Airways Limited, be taking to commemorate in six days time the 60th anniversary of this most significant flight which led to the development of the present world-wide air routes which have done so much to reduce the geographic isolation of Australia? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Did the Government receive serious inquiries from South Africa for the purchase of Nomad aircraft? What are the guidelines applied by the Government for sales to other countries? Could aircraft be sold to Taiwan, communist China or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, to instance three different political regimes? 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer remember my question of 20 September and his reply to it of 9 October when I raised for the first time in public the Foreign Investment Review Board controls on the Iwasaki land expansion? In view of the many allegations that  Mr Iwasaki  has covertly entered into negotiations to purchase further land in addition to his vast holdings of over 8,000 hectares and 20 kilometres of beach frontage, I ask: What guidelines will the Commonwealth apply to permit further expansion of these holdings which are grossly excessive for the declared purpose of building a tourist resort? If there has been a breach of the FIRB rules, will the Minister give this House an unequivocal assurance that the Commonwealth will give its full support to those regulations? 
Did the Leader of the Government in the Senate see the article in today's  Australian  relating to a report yesterday from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources which called for much greater Australian use and, by implication, consumption of natural gas as opposed to exporting this valuable fuel? As this report from the CSIRO is so obviously relevant and correct, will the Government immediately increase the incentives for the use of natural gas and other hydrocarbon gaseous fuels in Australia so that a total embargo on the export of gaseous hydrocarbons can be brought down as soon as possible? 
I present the following petition from 13 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It refers to the recently concluded fishing agreement with Taiwan. Do the exclusions  from  fishing in waters off the Queensland coast east of the Barrier Reef that apply in the case of the Japanese agreement apply equally to the Taiwanese agreement? 
I will not ask about the Russian roubles,  Mr President.  I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Whilst the choice of aircraft is the prerogative of the airlines concerned, will the Government's energy conservation policy be a factor in the choice of the next generation of aircraft for Australian airlines? Will the significant relative fuel efficiency of the Boeing 767, which is reported to be of the order of 23 per .cent better than that of the Airbus for the same passenger load, influence any advice tendered by the Government to the airlines? 
-In speaking to the second reading of the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1979, I do not wish to spend much time talking about points raised by  Senator Gietzelt.  I think he was incorrect in quite a few of them. 
A little courtesy does not go amiss,  Senator Rae. Senator Gietzelt  might reflect on the point that 'a profitable airline is a safe airline', as  Sir Donald  Anderson said nearly 20 years ago in talking about airline operations in Australia and their safety record. 
Costs of running airlines have gone up enormously in recent times as, in fact, have all aviation activities. I have no evidence at all- and I would be interested to find what evidence  Senator Gietzelt  has- that there has been a deal done between the airlines and the Government. That is not a point that I wish to pursue. 
Air navigation charges are bedevilled by this cost recovery doctrine which was introduced by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. This doctrine has persisted with the subsequent governments even though it is purely a socialist piece of dogma. I think it is time that the cost recovery doctrine in relation to aviation was reexamined on its merits and assessed as to how it was affecting the community. There are many illogical, unjust elements in this system of cost recovery. It is hampering the development of aviation and of Australia. It is an argument that pervades everything associated with aviation in Australia. Even the submissions before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works held several weeks ago on stage 1 of the Brisbane Airport were pervaded by the cost recovery doctrine. Quite clearly one of the factors that weighed heavily with Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia in their appeals against the development of Brisbane Airport, among the much incorrect and erroneous data they presented, was the belief that they were going to have to pay for that airport out of their fair structures. The user-pays concept is superficially very attractive. The community has recognised that, where there are large costs involved, such as in health, these costs are supported by community activity. 
I have talked about safety and safety with airlines is most expensive. I think that the community has a vested interest in maintaining safe airlines. Many parallels exist in this country where the wider benefits for the service to the community are recognised. Education is a classic example. This parliamentary chamber rings with pleas against bringing back fees for higher education, university courses and all the rest. People doing university courses place themselves, by and large, in a position where they can earn a higher income than their fellows. I mention also television licences. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is a classic example of a service provided at no cost to the members of the community directly because of the wider benefits that it is believed to entail. 
I would submit that it is time to think about aviation in this country, not on a basis totally funded by the Consolidated Revenue- I think there has to be a mix- but acknowledging that the 100 per cent cost recovery doctrine cannot be sustained any longer. It cannot be sustained any longer because the benefits of air transport are shared by the entire community. People who never get inside an aeroplane benefit from having an aviation transport system in the country. The tourist industry is a classic example that comes to mind. We have to move people over very large distances in this country. The foreign exchange that overseas tourists bring to this country and the great natural assets that we have for the tourist hold out the promise of rich rewards to our balance of payments and, most importantly, provide employment for many people in this country serving those tourists. 
The defence facilities that the airline service and the whole of the aviation facilities provide are also enormous. The airfields, aircraft and the skilled personnel we have in the country to operate and to service them give us a very important addition to our Defence Force. Of course, we have the business community. It is not one level but all levels- all the stratas- of the business community which benefit from an aviation service. I flew this morning from Brisbane to Canberra and there were many businessmen on the aircraft who also travelled from Brisbane to Canberra. Some of them will fly back at the end of the day. This ability to fly over vast distances in Australia, do business and return to one 's home the same night is of very considerable economic benefit to the community. But it is just as important for a tractor salesman or mechanic to be able to fly from Sydney to the back of Dubbo to service a tractor and go back that night. The community benefits from the facilities that all these people can use in the air transport field. 
Air navigation charges are levied by a complex formula which is partly logical and partly illogical. Part of the classification or assessment of the charge is based on weight. The other section is based on use. Three categories are defined. Category 1 is private. The second category is aerial work and the third is charter. The cost recovery doctrine as applied to sections of aircraft on the register is said to be equalling or exceeding the cost for international traffic. Regular passenger transport traffic is said to be equalling the costs involved. But the general aviation community which includes air work or charter, training, aerial agriculture, the business community and sport and recreation is said to be contributing only about 20 per cent of its costs. I am a little vague on that figure but it sticks in my mind from what I have heard the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  say. I will refer in detail to the inadequacy of this doctrine as applied to the general aviation sector. The general aviation sector has had very few people to speak for it, yet it is a very big component of all air transport activity in this country. 
It is very important for Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia. I shall look at general aviation in three categories- the resources it requires, the distribution of cost recovery in that section and the consultation which has taken place between the bureaucratic elements in the Department who assess these fees and the users. First I refer to resources. Aerial agriculture requires almost no facilities whatsoever from the Department of Transport. It requires minimal air fields. Mostly aircraft are based away from licensed airfields in the country. Usually they operate at heights below 500 feet above the terrain. Aerial agriculture is a purely local operation requiring no resources from the Department, or airways control or airfields facilities. The same requirement basically applies for the sport and recreation category. It requires almost no facilities. That is not to say that many facilities are not devoted to it but those facilities are imposed on it by the Department when they operate in secondary airports in capital cities. 
It is worth looking at the situation at Archerfield which is my home field in Brisbane. When I learnt to fly some years ago we operated from a field which was one mile square without any runways. Now we have a triple sealed runway system, a huge team of people in the tower and complex air traffic control procedures. It is a moot point amongst those of us who fly whether we would be able to put more aircraft into the circuit at one time if we did not have the triple runway system but had the one mile square allover landing field as we once had. The basic point I am making is that a large category of aircraft in the Australian skies operates purely on a visual flight rules basis. Two weekends ago I spent nine hours 15 minutes flying over a large part of Australia by myself. In those nine hours 1 5 minutes, spread over three days, the only demands I made on the Department of Transport were those I made when I entered the controlled airspace around Archerfield airfield. I operated outside controlled airspace but from licensed fields all the way. The characteristics of this type of operation are that a person requires minimal navigation aids, minimal fields- grass fields will do- and the minimal air traffic control. 
The requirements for air work, training and commuter aircraft vary enormously. Commuter aircraft can require almost the same type of facilities as regular public transport. When we consider the distribution of costs in the general aviation sector we find that the true commercial sector, that is training, air work and commuters, is being subsidised very heavily by the other aircraft in this category. Even though the cost recovery might be less than the total sum involved, the commuter operators are the great beneficiaries of the air navigation charges. I am not asking that those charges be levied at a higher rate. I think that this legislation represents the reduction to an end point of the doctrine of cost recovery. The point has been reached where I believe that the commuters can not pay much more than they are paying at the present time. Certainly all those other private business, recreational and agricultural people in the general aviation sector cannot pay any more. The airlines have the capacity to pay the charges which are placed upon them because they have the facility of transferring their costs directly to the public. Whilst that acts in a deterrent way insofar as it diminishes the number of people who travel on the airlines, at least they have this facility which is denied people in the general aviation sector. The consideration of air navigation charges, or the whole operation of air transport in Australia, has always turned about a concern for the airlines. The Department of Transport and its predecessor, the Department of Civil Aviation, always has been primarily concerned with airline operations. From what  Senator Gietzelt  said, it was interesting to see that he was primarily concerned with airlines, too. But in 1977 only 138 aircraft on the Australian register were airline aircraft, compared with 4,948 in the general aviation sector. More importantly, in 1977, 361,200 hours were flown by the airlines but 1,416,100 hours were flown by the general aviation sectoralmost five times the number of hours flown by the airlines. There are about 20,000 private pilots in this country, which is quite a large body in the community. 
The final point I wish to talk about in regard to the cost recovery part of the general aviation sector is the lack of consultation. Consultation does go on with the commercial users- with the airlines in particular- and with the commuters, industrial maintenance organisations and groups like that. But the largest body in the flying community- which comprises the sport and business pilots- has no direct channel of communication with the Department or the Government. Most importantly, those pilots have no say in what facilities are imposed upon them. That would not matter, except that in the user-pays concept they are then asked to pay for them. It is a classical case of taxation without representation. Charges- not only air navigation charges- are going up the whole time. The price of fuel and the fuel excise have gone up. The imposition of a pilot licence fee is pending, a publications fee is pending and we are to have a biennial pilot's review imposed upon the general aviation sector. I will come to that in a few minutes. 
As I have said before, the calculation of air navigation charges is illogical, complex and time consuming. As one very senior member of the Department of Transport said to me a year ago- he is retired now so I feel safe to quote him anonymously: 'The first person who ever thought of classifying aircraft by weight was stupid'. I agree with that wholeheartedly. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  three pages from a Department of Transport publication relating to air navigation charges. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911192_45_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911192_46_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911192_47_6.jpg"></graphic>

A glance at that document will show the great complexity under which the Department has to operate in assessing charges. Staff in the Department of Transport dealing with air navigation charges find their assessment quite unnecessary and time consuming. I would like to illustrate this by citing the anomalies that exist in relation to a Cessna 150 aircraft when aircraft are classified by weight. The weight classification in the existing air navigation charges starts at a weight of 700 kilograms and the next category is 900 kilograms. In Class 1 , the rate for a 700 kilogram aircraft is $93.60 a year but for a 900 kilogram aircraft it is $327.60 a year. In respect of Cessna aircraft, the 150- which is the smallest aircraft built by Cessna- the Mark A to Mark C have a maximum all-up weight of 680 kilograms. The later ones, the 150 Mark D and the 150 Mark H, weigh 730 kilograms. Essentially the same aircraft, it moves into a higher category of air navigation charges. It does the same job; it carries the same load; essentially it has the same performance capability. Yet in this category the charge is $327 a year compared with $93 for the earlier Mark model because fortuitously it happens to be a few pounds lighter in weight. It is an utter illogicality and quite unnecessary. I think the air navigation charges for this category could be revised. There could be one or two single-engine charges and then the imposition of some classification based on whether the charge applies to private, business or aerial work. I think that how an aircraft is used has some basis in assessing charges. 
I come back to a point I made earlier on the biennial flight test, which will be imposed on the pilots of this country insofar as I can determine. I have taken this up with various people in the Department. I wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about it and, presumably acting on departmental advice, he wrote to me. He made the point that the major difference is that in general the general aviation sector operated at a much lower level of supervision. He said that the biennial review is aimed at remedying this situation. Later on in the same letter he said: 'It is significant that this group of pilots has the highest accident rate '. It is a popular misconception in the community that the general aviation section has a higher accident rate than any other section of Australian aviation. I find that staggering. I cannot work it out. I telephoned the aviation division of the head office of the Department of Transport in Melbourne some while ago and asked for statistics on which this claim was made. I was sent the latest document that was available a month or so ago. It was entitled 'A Survey of Accidents of Australian Civil Aircraft 1 977 '. I spent some time perusing it. It was my business previously to know a little about statistical analysis. Although I certainly would not hold myself out to be an expert on this I am surprised that on the figures in that document anyone could come to the conclusion that there is a higher accident rate in the general aviation sector. This document makes no interpretation of the data that is presented in it, therefore there is no indication of how the Department came to its conclusion. Table 40 in this document is quite interesting. It relates to private and business flying. In conjuction with graph 2 it gives no evidence at all of a worsening accident rate in the general aviation sector. If anything the trend is towards a lower rate. For example, since 1968 there has been an increase of approximately 70 per cent in the total hours flown and the number of hours flown per accident has increased by about 60 per cent. The number of accidents has certainly not kept pace with the extra hours flown. The same trend is obvious in general aviation generally. Table 41 shows that the number of hours flown has increased by about 40 per cent while the number of accidents per 100,000 hours flown has dropped from 1.84 to 1.27. Whilst there is a variation from year to year in these figures, there is an indication of a general trend towards a lower accident rate. 
One of the other hoary cliches in this departmental assessment of accidents is that recent aeronautical experience is of relevance to an accident rate. Table 3 1 on page 39 of this document provides some interesting information. It indicates that the lack of recent experience has little relationship to the accident rate at all. Those pilots with less than 10 hours experience appear to have been involved in a proportionally lower number of accidents than those who had more recent experience. This group with experience of less than 10 hours in the previous 90 days would include probably a majority of private licence holders. One can hardly support any suggestion that flight tests based on aeronautical skill would significantly affect the accident rate, which seems to be the purpose of this biennial review. 
A consequence of bringing in a biennial review will be that the 20,000 pilots in this country will be required to do at least two to three hours, may be four hours, of flying with a flying instructor to see whether they are safe to fly. This will cost the community about $120 to $200 per pilot and cumulatively the cost will be about $2m a year. An industry will be created by the stroke of a pen. It is no wonder that the flying schools think it is a wonderful idea. Most importantly, at a time of crisis in fuel supplies we will burn off unnecessarily millions of litres of avgas per year. With 10,000 pilots a year doing the test, each flying for three or four hours and burning about 30 litres to 40 litres an hour, we will burn off about 1.3 million litres of avgas with no benefit at all to the community. To ask someone to fly for three or four hours with a flying instructor will not improve any defects in his flying skills. The problem with flying instructors in Australia is not that they cannot fly- most of them fly superbly well- but that they have never been taught how to teach. With all the money we spend on education and on subsidising other things, it is a great surprise to me that we cannot find some money to spend on teaching flying instructors in this country how to teach a craft that they themselves know very well. 
We have a direct parallel in regard to this biennial review with what happened in the United States. About six or seven years ago the United States introduced a similar scheme, and a statistical analysis of that scheme shows that since the biennial, review came into existence the accident rate has actually gone up. I am not so naive as to suggest that there is a cause and effect relationship here, but quite clearly there has not been an improvement and the biennial review has not acted in the way in which it was meant to act. I think that this biennial review is a classic example of bureaucratic interference in a subject by people who are concerned only with shuffling figures and looking at a balance sheet and who have no concept of what is going on. We need to rethink the whole of the cost recovery doctrine. If we do not do so, we will deny air transport its rightful place in Australia. Air transport is very fuel efficient and is a convenient way to travel. It is important that we have an airline system which moves people as cheaply and efficiently as possible. It is very important that businessmen, whether they be in groups of one, 2 or 20, can move around on their legitimate purposes as cheaply and quickly as possible. It is also important that a private pilot, when he flies for recreation, can fly in the same way as someone else can ride a pushbike, sail a boat or partake in any of the other liberties which are part and parcel of being an Australian citizen. 
The great problem we have is over prescription. Some of the requirements that are imposed on people operating in aviation bear no relevance to safety or to need, but the cost of them, when it is levied against the whole of the community, is quite enormous. One of the tragedies in this situation has been the absorption of the former Department of Civil Aviation within the Department of Transport. I have had a long involvement with aviation and I have some very close friends in the Air Operations Divisions of the Department of Transport; I am not conscious of having one enemy there, I do not know one person in the Department of Transport who at the drop of a hat would not go back to a department of civil aviation. The morale of the staff of the former Department of Civil Aviation has fallen since it became absorbed into . this amorphous and large Department of Transport. It is certainly my plea that the Government give consideration to re-forming the former Department of Civil Aviation. 
-Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of any reason why he, as Attorney-General, should not use those legal powers available to him so that those people who may have obtained Federal funds by fraud are brought to justice? 
There is an old saying that where ignorance is bliss it it folly to be wise and we have had one of the most crass displays of ignorance on a scientific subject in the last half hour in this chamber than I think we have ever heard. 1 will not take up the time of the Senate by speaking in support of  Senator Young  for too long.  Senator Tate's  questions raised three points. In regard to the Harrisburg disaster certainly there were reports in the report to the United States  President  of bad management. Bad management is universal to all fields of human activity. There may have been some slightly bad engineering, but the point one has to realise is that nuclear engineering has some of the highest forms of technology that the human race has yet attained. It is not repetitive. It is creative. It uses new designs. Obviously where one is doing things for the first time there must be some mistakes. The great lesson of Harrisburg was that no one was hurt. The fail safe design prevented injury to human beings around the plant. That speaks for itself. 
Just-look at what has gone on with the thermal generation of power. Let us look at the hundreds of thousands of people who have died from the underground mining of coal. Others will do so because underground mining is inherently dangerous. Let us look at the thousands of people who died in the building and maintaining thermal powerhouses. The number is countless. They will go on dying that way. We have not had one death in nuclear power houses. What if a thermal powerhouse fails because of some action taken by the unions and thousands of people in a city are disadvantaged? What happens to a place that is without power. With nuclear power generation we would not have that rate of failure. What about the environmental effects of all the trace elements coming out of the millions of tonnes of black coal we burn each year in this country. Just read my speech earlier this year if one does not know what happens when coal is burnt. The effects of burning coal are quite enormous.  Major scientific  problems are posed as our hydrocarbons are lost and as we go on to black coal as a source of fuel. The earth is facing an environmental problem of a magnitude which it has not coped with before. That problem is avoided with nuclear generation. All this humbug is spoken about getting rid of nuclear power but, as  Senator Young  said, we are in a nuclear age. Japan gets about 20 per cent of its power from nuclear sources; Belgium gets about 18 per cent; Britain about 13 per cent; and the United States of America about 13 per cent. Does the honourable senator think that those people can change overnight to an alternative source of power? They cannot. 
I come finally to  Senator Tate's  point in relation to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I have never heard such a scurrilous attack on such a fine institution in my life. All this business of the old socialist dogma of the research, the entrepreneurial production business, and safeguards is really a veiled attack, a Trojan horse to destroy our capacity to understand and use nuclear power in this country. Just look at the record of the scholarship of the AEC. Let us look at the publications.  Senator Tate  would understand this, but his colleagues would not. They would not know what a publication list was. They would not know a reputable scientific journal if they saw one. But the reliability shown by the AEC in its publication list over the last 15 to 20 years is proof of its integrity in the world of scholarship. On the final point of reasonable certainty, scientists are not dogmatic people. They are intelligent, cautious people, and most scientists phrase their judgments in terms of reasonable certainty. They do not make statements of absolute truth. 
I will take just a moment. It is quite clear from what we have seen that the cost recoveryuser pays doctrine of the Department of Transport aviation section is running into major problems. The hearings of Senate Estimates committees have shown that the Department of Transport is having problems in implementing that doctrine. The problem is to attribute sections of the costs to the various users, let alone make a fair and equitable distribution of those costs. On the industry side or user side to which the costs are applied, there is an increasing wave of dissatisfaction, because it is seen to be less than fair and equitable. It is seen also to provide no restraint on some of the activities of the Department because it does tend to impose systems on users which the users do not really need. 
As I said on Monday night and as  Senator Townley  said tonight, society receives a benefit from having an efficient airline and air transport system in this country. Part of the cost of running the services should be met by the community at large. I suggest that a figure of 60 per cent of the cost might be recovered from the users and 40 per cent might be derived from the community. I raise a point about the $172,048 that is being spent this year by the Department of Transport on training eight examiners of airmen for Boeing 727 and DC9 aircraft. I think that that is a waste of taxpayers' money. I think it is an unnecessary service. Those eight examiners of airmen are flown to America twice a year to undertake crew training so that they can maintain flight currency on those two classes of aircraft. They, in turn, act as check captains on the check captains of the airlines which operate the Boeing 727 and DC9 aircraft in this country. It is time that we recognised the professionalism of the airlines. The days are long gone when people flying regular passenger transport aircraft were cowboys or amateurs learning as they went along. 
-Yes, if it ever were the case. I do not think that it ever was at that standard because I think that Australia led the world in its airline development. Whatever one might think about airline schedules or airline costs, that is one matter; but there can be no question at all about the sheer professionalism of the Australian airlines in an operational sense. Their crew training, their crew efficiency and their maintenance standards are absolutely without parallel. There is no reason at all for us to impose a governmental check on the check captains that they already operate so efficiently, on their services. We are past that. We certainly do not need to spend $172,000 a year maintaining this superfluous service. 
I refer the Leader of the Government to attacks in the last 24 hours on the United States Embassy in Islamabad and the burning of the American centre in Rawalpindi. Is the Government aware of any Australian citizens in Islamabad orin Pakistan being at risk? 
I would like emphatically to support the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  for his comments on this grant of special assistance to the States. I accept the fact that there is no confusion in  Senator Colston's  mind on this, but I would gently suggest that there might be some degree of misunderstanding as to what special assistance to the States, as seen by the Grants Commissions, implies. I take him back to the third report of the Grants Commission in 1936. The Commission justified it all in the statement that: 
Special Grants are justified when a State through financial stress from any cause is unable efficiently to discharge its functions as a member of the federation and should be determined by the amount of help found necessary to make it possible for that State by reasonable effort to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States. 
It really does not get down to the matter of transport, per se. The point that needs to be made is that Queensland has the lowest income per capita of any State in the country. Queensland's personal income per head of population in 1977-78 was estimated to be $5,1 13, the lowest in the country, and more than $400 below the Australia-wide average. Our need for grants is tied principally to the high level of protection in this country. Without going into a discussion of Queensland's industry, I mention that the three most highly protected industries in the country- clothing and footwear, transport equipment and textiles- engage only 1 4.7 per cent of Queensland 's work force. On the other hand, those industries with the lowest level of protection- non-metallic mineral products, basic metal products, food beverages and tobacco and wood products- employ 52.1 per cent of Queensland's workforce. Queensland does not get the benefit of the very high levels of protection in Australia. That is principally the reason for this grant. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware that the 160-odd Centurion tanks of the Armoured Corps have now been placed in storage, having been replaced by the Leopards? In view of the total lack of any self-propelled artillery weapons in the Australian forces, will the Government consider a feasibility study on re-engining and new transmissions and suspensions on the Centurions and convert some or all of them to SP weapons? Such a move would be of considerable value both to Australian industry and our national defence. 
It is a great pleasure to speak to the Sugar Agreement Bill 1979 which, as  Senator Wriedt  has said, is one of the important Bills to come before the chamber this session. At the outset I compliment and support  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Opposition, on his speech on this subject. It was a closely reasoned speech and has my full agreement. It dealt with the technical side of the pricing agreement and thus saves me doing that. I wish to mention two matters very briefly this morning. Firstly, I wish to talk about the economic importance of the Bill to the sugar industry and at the same time I wish to talk about the economic importance of the sugar industry to Australia. It is not often appreciated how important this industry is to the whole of Australia. 
This Bill provides a formula for domestic sugar which will run to 30 June 1984. It represents an advance on the present marketing agreements and will provide benefits both to the industry and to consumers. The producers, millers and refiners of sugar will have the advantage of getting a fair return and there will be provision for automatic price adjustments. The absence of price adjustments has been one of the things which has been the bane of the sugar industry because it is a very tightly controlled industry. The prices of all primary products fluctuate mainly in response to supply and demand, a consequence of seasonal changes and matters like that. Unlike prices for all other primary products- for example, beef or woolwhich do fluctuate, sugar has great difficulty in moving because, from the point of view of production and marketing, it is such a tightly controlled industry. In times of high inflation, such as we have had in the last five to 10 years, the sugar industry has suffered probably more than any other sector of primary industry. 
The greatest consumer of sugar in Australia is, of course, the confectionary or food industry to which  Senator Wriedt  referred. It uses about 60 per cent of all sugar produced or rather sold in Australia. It has the great advantage, firstly, of having a guaranteed supply which is a real benefit in times of crop failure, and, secondly, a 12-month fixed price so that it can do its forward planning. This Bill maintains the previous marketing arrangements which are well known to all people associated with the sugar industry. The introduction of a new factor is in the provision of this maximum price, which is based on a simple formula allowing for some cost increases. Proportionate increases in the price of sugar cannot exceed proportionate rises in the consumer price index, and in relation to the export price in times of high export earnings the price increase is diminished and the converse applies. When export earnings are down, the increase which is permitted in the home market sale rises. For the benefit of those honourable senators who do not appreciate the situation, I point out that 65 per cent of the sugar crop is sold on the export market. 
I have mentioned that historically it has been very difficult to get a fair price for sugar sold on the home market. It is a tightly regulated market. In January 1 978, the industry sought an increase from the Federal Government of $80 a tonne, in the price of sugar. In June of last year it was granted $30 a tonne which was quite inadequate. At the same time the Government set up a public inquiry chaired by  Mr W.  A. McKinnon, the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission. This inquiry took evidence from growers, millers, refiners, marketers, consumers and private individuals. One of its recommendations was that there be a maximum price for sugar. The recommendations of the McKinnon Committee form the basis for this Bill. Some of the witnesses appearing before the inquiry referred to the confidentiality of the sugar marketing arrangements in this country and hinted that there were probably excessive profits. They talked about the prohibition of imports which is one of the fundamental positions that the industry has in controlling its marketing. 
Relating to the prohibition of imports of sugar to Australia, internationally there have been great fluctuations in supply, looking at it on a 10-year or 20-year scale, which is the minimum period one can use for commodities. As a result of crop failures and the like, sugar is in very short supply at various times. Not so many years ago the fact that sugar was not available in restaurants and cafes in the United States of America attracted a great deal of publicity in this country. We have never suffered such a shortage here. We have always had an adequate supply of sugar for the home market. That has been a consequence of the regulation which the Government has applied to the sugar industry. 
One of the other arguments advanced by the proponents of the abolition of import restrictions has been the low prices which exist from time to time on the world market. But it is important to take more than a superficial view of that. Frequently, the low prices which exist from time to time are a consequence of dumping moves. The classic case in this area has been the dumping by the European Economic Community onto the New Guinea market through the immediate past, with sugar being released at a price well below the cost of production. The important thing to recognise is that an industry cannot be based on aberrant low prices because there is no continuity of supply and no real volume. The allegations of secrecy in the industry were dispelled by the evidence tabled by the producers before the inquiry. I think that that ghost has been laid to rest. 
The suggestions that there are high profits in the sugar industry from the home market price simply cannot be sustained. The home market absorbs only 35 per cent of the production. As  Senator Wriedt  said, vested interests were operating here, particularly the confectionery and soft drink lobby, which was trying to obtain sugar- I guess this is a legitimate commercial ploy- at the lowest possible price. I think that all of us who were involved in parliament at the time were circularised by users of sugar in Australia, complaining about the inordinate price of sugar and all the rest. The most ludicrous proposition I saw was from the food industry council, which asked the Government to provide a direct subsidy from the taxpayers to the sugar growers. That is an incredible approach to economics in 1979; nevertheless the attempt was made. 
While on the subject of economics I shall briefly point out what has happened to the home market. Since 1 967 the price of refined sugar in Australia has increased by only 3 1 per cent from a very low price with reference to world markets. In that period since 1967 the consumer price index has gone up by 1 34 per cent, the food producers have increased their prices by 117 per cent and the arch critics of the sugar industrythe ice cream and confectionery manufacturershave found it possible to increase their prices by 1 60 per cent, as opposed to the 3 1 per cent that has been granted to the sugar industry. The evidence given to the McKinnon committee showed that the returns from the domestic market were below the average export returns for the last five years. They were below the target prices of the International Sugar Agreement and they were below the average returns to the producers in the United States and the EEC. I quote one sentence from the McKinnon inquiry: 
Examination of the arrangements for managing the industry does not lead to the conclusion that the industry has been over-protected or the consumer exploited in recent years. 
The sugar industry has experienced enormous cost increases in the recent past. The cost of fuel, nitrogenous fertilisers, equipment and labour have been quite enormous and the sugar industry has been unable to recover all those cost increases by simple and frequent price revisions. Proportionately, the industry has suffered far higher cost increases than the confectioners who, as I said, have increased their prices by 160 per cent since 1967, as against the 30 per cent increase in the domestic price of sugar. 
What this Bill will do, first of all, is guarantee supply, which is very important to the Australian market, particularly the manufacturers. Secondly, it will give us a very high quality product. Very few people stop to think about the quality of sugar on the Australian market. One of the great reputations Australia has as a trader on the world market is the consistent high quality of the product. In fact, the product is of the highest technical level in the world. The third point is that we have a very low price. Even after the last increase the sugar price is 47c a kilogram. The United States price is 49c a kilogram and the New Zealand price 57c a kilogram. The price in Denmark, which is at the other extreme of the scale, is $1.56 a kilogram. For the information of honourable senators I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the retail prices of sugar in selected countries as at 1 March 1979. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911236_21_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911236_22_1.jpg"></graphic>

We have had an artificially low domestic price when we compare the costs that the industry has to bear in relation to cost rises that have taken place in other industries. 
What about the industry itself? I mentioned that I would like to talk briefly about the importance of the sugar economy to Australia. Seven per cent of all Australian agricultural output comes from the sugar industry. There are 7,200 growers and 33 mills. It is a capital intensive industry and it has provided a very substantial income to Australian engineers and engineering manufacturers and suppliers. All the mills and most of the equipment used- I refer in particular to the Australian cane harvester- has been designed and produced in this country. As  Senator Wriedt  said, the great virtue of this industry is that it is 100 per cent Australian owned, and that is something of enormous benefit to us in the development of this country. 
The sugar industry covers an area from Mossman in north Queensland to the northern rivers of New South Wales and it uses land for which at the present time there is no obvious alternative crop. Whilst there are only 7,200 growers something like a quarter of a million people are directly involved in earning their income from this industry. The industry produces nearly three million tonnes of raw sugar a year, 65 per cent of which is exported and which is of great significance to Australia's balance of trade. In 1977-78 the value of raw sugar sold was $536.6m, and that is the lowest export income the sugar industry has earned since 1973-74. The industry is vital for the regional economies of quite a few regions. By way of illustration, 65 per cent of the regional labour force at Mackay in Queensland is involved in the sugar industry. Technically it is a very efficient industry by any standards, rural or secondary. It is a world leader. It is a self-financing industry. It is an industry that is innovative and creative. 
Some of the examples of the industry's creativity are in its approach to the development of cane types and the selective breedings to increase yield and resistance to disease. Sugar cane is one of the most researched agricultural crops in Australia. The farming practices are intensive and well researched. The efficiency .of the milling of sugar cane is the highest in the world. Computerisation and automation have been introduced through the whole process. It has been done at cost to the industry and not to the taxpayer. The industry uses its own fuel. It makes little demand on imported hydrocarbons. It has its own arbitration scheme for setting prices from the grower to the mills. All of this has been developed over the years. The most significant development in the last decade or so has been the introduction of bulk handling and storage facilities which have enabled the product to be delivered to the consumers at the lowest possible cost. 
This industry does not need protection. It does not need subsidy. All it needs is a fair go and a little bit of stability in the market place and this Bill provides that. The Sugar Agreement 1979 will have the practical effect of aiding the further development of an efficient industry and ensuring stable and reliable sugar supplies. Successive sugar agreements have been the foundation stone of the Australian sugar industry. As a result, the industry, Australian consumers and the Australian economy have all reaped tangible benefits. I have much pleasure in supporting this Bill. 
