I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. It refers to the Government's proposal of 2 years  ago to provide S25m through the States to assist in the reconstruction of Australian dairy farms. Have any of the States except Western Australia, which has agreed to this proposal, indicated if and when they will agree to this important means of assisting the dairy industry? 
I oppose the amendment. I was interested in the comments made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who once again indicated a political approach to a very serious matter that has engaged the concern of members from both sides of the House and has engaged the Government in a serious and positive way. Last year the Committee proposed today was, in fact, established. It functioned until the Parliament was dissolved for the last general election. The Committee was quickly reappointed after the election - in fact, on 25th November 1969. It would not have been necessary to re-appoint it now had it not been for the requirement of the procedures of this House that when Parliament is dissolved statutory committees have to be re-appointed. A significant factor is that exactly the same amendment was proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 25th November last. The debate on that occasion disposed of the matter quite effectively and, really, it is playing politics for the amendment to be proposed again. 
Right away I want to say that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr 'Donald Cameron)  made a very honest assessment of the problem when he came before the former Committee. On the other hand the honourable member for Grayndler, who almost wept a moment ago about his constituents and the problems they have because of aircraft noise, has yet to appear before the Committee. He had ample opportunity when the Committee sat in Sydney. But did he come forward and give evidence? No. He ran away from it because he could see some danger in getting involved. He wants to play politics all the way along the line and so I say this afternoon that this is just further evidence of this kind of tactics. It is a disappointing tactic for the public at large who rely on their members of Parliament to do their very best for them. 
 The reason for my opposition to the amendment is simply because the Committee, as previously constituted under the terms of reference, has been functioning effectively and has been well able to cover every aspect of the problem within the generally accepted functions of a select committee. To suggest that it should go further and actually report on the relocation of airports is, of course, to draw a red herring across the trail. The facts are that the Committee in its work thus far has questioned, under oath, officers of the Department of Civil Aviation. It has had every opportunity to inquire into the possibility of re-siting airports and it will have, without question, if reconstituted as now proposed, equal opportunity in its future work to continue in this direction. But there must be a proper relationship between the capacity of a select committee of Parliament and the task in which it would be involved in nominating and selecting sites for new airports, which is another field altogether. It is quite competent for the Committee in the case of Mascot, Eagle Farm or any other airport in Australia, to come forward with facts and evidence to show that the future use of those airports provides some hazard of a nature for which there is no solution. The responsibility is then on the shoulders of the Government to deal with the question of other and alternative sites. That is exactly the way that the Committee set about its task. The report it submitted to the House of Representatives before the dissolution of the last Parliament shows that it is able to do its job effectively and well. 
If the Committee were required to do more than is clearly set out in the terms of reference, it would become something more than a select committee. Extension of the terms of reference would necessitate the Committee having at its disposal a whole body of technical advisers. It would virtually have to set up a special department of the Parliament to examine technical matters and then come back and say that certain things should be done. That could never be envisaged as the responsibility of a select committee, whether it be in this field or in another field. The terms of reference provide amply for an investigation into the operation of existing airports and they provide sufficient scope for adequate comments to be made by the Committee on matters within its responsibility. They are aircraft noise and its effect on the community - on people who dwell near airports and on the community surrounding airports. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has been a very active member of the Committee, as have other Opposition members. I remind the House that the Committee in its report of 28th August last referred to the future pfenning by the Royal Australian Air Force of bases around Australia. There is nothing to suggest that this section of the report of 28th August has not been taken into account fully by the Air Force. There is no evidence to support the suggestion of the honourable member for Newcastle that two Ministers have already failed to acknowledge the recommendations of the Committee. Indeed, the contrary can quite well be regarded as the fact. 
The honourable member for Newcastle went on to say that a school was to be constructed at a place called Berrimah in Darwin and that this was dreadful. He said that the Government had failed because no notice had been taken of the work of the Aircraft Noise Committee on this matter. 1 remind the House that the Committee took evidence in Darwin on 17th February. The proposals for a school at Berrimah were made known to the Committee at that time. It had not previously looked at the situation in Darwin and was not previously aware of the proposal to construct a school at a place called Berrimah. Therefore, it is begging the question to say here this afternoon that the Government has failed and that certain Ministers have not acted responsibly. The real truth of the situation is that the Committee in its hearing at Darwin obtained a fairly wide range of information and has sufficient information for it to take the problem of Darwin into account with the problems it has found in other parts of Australia and to report on the problem within the limits of the terms of reference under which it functions. 
The honourable member for Newcastle is wide of the mark in suggesting that anything more could be achieved by widening the terms of reference in the way proposed in the amendment he moved. Such added responsibilities would inhibit the Committee in undertaking the work that it was primarily supposed to do and that is to assess the problem and the extent of it, to assess the effect of noise, to look at ways and means of solving the problems of noise, to call for information from within Australia and from abroad and to do this within the ambit of the present experience of the growth of civil aviation in Australia. To suggest that the terms of reference should also require the Committee to go out and select new airport sites is merely to suggest that all the other work should be completely abandoned, that we should give up here and now and say that there is no future in continuing to use Mascot, Eagle Farm or Adelaide airport or in continuing with the pattern of operations that has existed for some years now and must inevitably continue for one very obvious reason. If a decision were made tomorrow to resite Mascot, how long would the building of the new airport take? How long would it be before commercial use could be made of the new airport? I suggest that it would take at least 5 years and maybe 10 years. If the emphasis were to be placed merely on the selection of new sites for airports and not precisely on the problem that confronts us - the problem that was so dramatically described by the honourable member for Grayndler - the Committee would be abdicating its responsibility to try to effect some improvement in this very serious problem that concerns the community around airports. 
The honourable member for Grayndler went further and said that there had been some political connivance, that the Government had directed the Department of Civil Aviation to change the routes in and out of Sydney airport so that aircraft flew over his electorate and two other electorates when they could quite well have been flying over the sea. If the honourable member for Grayndler is so out of touch with what is happening in and around his electorate and the City of Sydney, it is time that he talked to his colleagues on the Opposition side of the House; it is time that he talked to the Department of Civil Aviation and it is time that he came before the Committee as he has every right to do if he so chooses and found out what is happening. He would find that the picture is very different from the one that he has painted. 
He would find that, because of the work of the Committee thus far and the cooperation of the Department of Civil Aviation, a good deal has been done to alleviate the noise level. He would find that the aviation industry today is carrying a substantial cost factor in its operations because of the introduction of noise abatement measures. This springs primarily from the fact that many aircraft approaching Sydney come over the ocean, circle over National Park and then come on to the runway across Botany Bay. With most of the flights I take into Sydney, particularly in the early evening, I find that this adds between 7 and 10 minutes to the journey from the point of departure, whether it is Brisbane, Grafton, Coffs Harbour or some other centre. This has resulted from the work done by the Department of Civil Aviation in a faithful and positive approach to the immediate problem, which is the injurious effect of noise on the residents of electorates which are supposed to be under the care of members like the honourable member for Grayndler, who admitted to the House this afternoon that he has failed miserably to come to grips with the problem and to understand it. 1 go further and say that the Government, accused as it was this afternoon, has certainly not been lacking in appreciation of the problem. To see this, one has only to refer to the statement of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  about 6 weeks ago on the formation of a committee at Mascot. This accords fairly directly with the recommendations of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented to the Parliament at the end of last year. I refer to paragraph 13 of the report, which states that the task is a challenging one, but the Committee recommends that there should be co-ordination between the States and local government authorities regarding urban development and planning. The statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation, to which I have referred, announced the setting up of a committee with representatives from planning authorities. local government councils and State instrumentalities together with representatives from the Department of Civil Aviation to effectively get on with the task and to do the job that has to be done if we are to do anything to alleviate the disabilities from which people resident in and around the cities are suffering. As a country member I want to say that this kind of requirement cannot be accomplished without the expenditure of vast sums of money. I do not want to deny city people some protection from a problem which has beset them and which is not of their own making, but T want to remind this Parliament that aircraft noise is a pretty costly problem to deal with. 
To suggest to this House that the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, as it has thus far functioned, has been ineffective and that unless it is given the right to recommend new sites for airports it will be rendered unable to fulfil the responsibility for which it has been appointed, is to mislead the public and this House and to draw a red herring across the trail. I oppose the amendment, and I urge the House to ensure that there is not a short circuiting of the real responsibility of this Committee by putting into its terms of reference something which will throw overboard the primary responsibility of the Committee. 

 Mr DALY (Grayndler) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. I refer to the quest by the New South Wales Government for financial assistance from the Commonwealth towards the cost of flood mitigation works on the coastal rivers. The cost is estimated to be in the vicinity of $20.5m during the period 1969- 1975. I ask: Has the State sought an amount of about $8.5m over a period of 6 years to enable projects previously commenced on a similar basis of Commonwealth financial participation to be completed, together with new and additional works? Was it indicated in the GovernorGeneral's Speech at the opening of this session of Parliament that Rood mitigation works would be included in the Government's $100m water resources programme? Can the Minister inform the House as to the progress being made in negotiations between the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government in this important matter? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the concern expressed by export meat works and producers regarding concessions granted by the Australian Meat Board to Northern Territory meat exporters under the meat diversification scheme so as to earn entitlement to entry into the United States market? Can the Minister give an assurance that nothing will be done to jeopardise the diversification scheme and the Australian entitlements for meat on the United States market? 
I refer the PostmasterGeneral to a recent statement by the Federation of Commercial Television Stations expressing the view that colour television transmission should not be introduced for some 5 years. Has consideration been given to the reasons advanced for this contention? Has any definite decision been made by the Government in this matter? 
You- 
I am not very impressed with your argument. 
Do you think there is room for it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface it by saying that the rapid expansion which is taking place in the production of butter resulting in increasing proportions having to be sold on depressed world markets is further substantially reducing returns to producers. As a guide to the Australian dairying industry in formulating its future production plans will the Minister give an indication of the Government's proposals with regard to the dairy produce price underwriting arrangement for the 1970-71 production year? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Government's proposal for a scheme involving the expenditure of $25m to assist the re-organisation of the dairying industry. In view of the very serious difficulties confronting the dairying industry will the Commonwealth use every possible persuasion to have the States which have taken so long to consider and agree on this proposal treat it as a matter of extreme urgency? 
I rise to express my utter amazement at what has been put to this House this afternoon by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and supported - somewhat reluctantly, 1 would think, to judge by his expression - by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  The honourable member for Maribyrnong said that the Opposition proposes amendments to the whole operation of our hospitals system without any extra cost to the patient. What an extraordinary proposition. It followed the assertion by the honourable member for Oxley that the Commonwealth was shirking its responsibilities in the financing of public hospitals in this country. The Opposition is so devoid of something positive to put to the Parliament and the nation that it is now grasping at straws. It is completely lacking in fertile ideas, and this on the day following the introduction into this House of the Government's proposals for a revolutionary and progressive overhaul of our medical benefits system. Those proposals flow directly from the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee. 
Let me analyse briefly one or two of the points that have been made in the debate. The honourable member for Oxley claimed that the real crisis in our hospitals is in the field of maintenance costs. He made some vague reference to the need for more buildings, but the substance of his argument with regard to the problems which exist - we do not deny that there are problems - was that the present system should be changed. He gave details of the deficits of our hospitals. He referred to the situation in New South Wales, Victoria and other Slates.  His  remarks were an admission that he does not know how hospitals are financed. He does not appreciate the relationship between capital costs and maintenance costs. If he is prepared to speak without ascertaining the situation in our public hospitals with regard to costs it is a pity to see him on the front bench representing the alternative government of this country. I think we on this side of the House are aware that his deficiencies are pretty extensive.  His  remarks come as no surprise to us. 
On the subject of hospital deficits I would point out that it has been traditional for costs that might occur between budgets and between adjustments in benefits under the national health scheme to be part of the financial responsibility of the States. Certainly the States always ask for more money but they, like everybody else who understands the system, know that the deficiency is met from the funds that flow to the States under the Commonwealth's general revenue grants to meet not only these but similar administrative costs in the States. A similar situation applies with respect to education and all other things that go to make up State rights. Is it to be suggested that we have a great nationalised scheme? Of course it is as far as the Opposition is concerned. 
The fact that the only positive proposition put forward by the honourable member for Oxley was a community health centre system is evidence of the Opposition's desire completely to nationalise every aspect of health and hospital administration in Australia. 
At least I go to the trouble of informing myself about Labor's policy. The Opposition has failed lamentably to understand the Government's policy. Let me deal with the community health centres proposed by the Opposition. These -would be medical clinics that would eliminate the present doctor and patient relationship. This is the kind of proposition that has been seen to fail in the United Kingdom under its national health scheme. It is the kind of iniquitous proposition that would remove from the Australian scene the family doctor approach - the patientdoctor relationship which is so much a part of the Australian way of life. Under Labor's proposal people would became mere numbers on index cards. A general practitioner would be rostered to attend patient A or patient Z, as the case may be. 
I noted that the honourable member for Maribyrnong did not refer at length to this aspect. After all, he has a professional background. I suppose he does not want to be seen to act in 2 roles. He wants to try to hide quietly in the background some aspects of the policy of the Party of which he is now a member- a Party in which he pretends in certain circumstances to be a leading member. I wish he would come forward and be honest about the matter. Then we would see him exposed just as we saw the honourable member for Oxley exposed this afternoon. The proposals advanced by the honourable member for Oxley with regard to health and medical services are hopeless. I think it is very clear to all honourable members, and certainly to the community at large, that the Opposition does not have a health policy. To elaborate on that submission I would take the speeches made by the honourable member for Oxley and the honourable member for Maribyrnong and analyse them point by point. The honourable members have ignored the way in which the present system operates and, more seriously, have Ignored completely the Nimmo Committee's report and the Government's statements to date on that report. 
I pay a tribute to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  for his patience this afternoon. He was a little outspoken at one stage, but justifiably so, because he had to draw the attention of the Opposition to the fact that at this very moment recommendation No. 5 of the Nimmo Committee is before the States for their comment. This is clear and positive. It was not referred to by the honourable member for Oxley. The recommendation reads: 
That under the Commonwealth-State agreement, the States be asked to undertake that - 
standard ward accommodation will be available to every member of the community regardless of means, 
intermediate and private ward accommodation will be available at the choice of patients, 
fees for all wards will be stabilised for periods of 3 years. 
Those are 3 positive recommendations under the heading 'Commonwealth-State Agreement' which the States have been asked to consider. It is not for this Government to rush in and say: 'This is the final thing. This is what will be done.' The States should have an opportunity to consider the whole range of recommendations in the Nimmo report and then to discuss them with the Commonwealth.. The honourable member for Maribyrnong said: 'Well, why deal only with certain aspects . of medical benefits at this stage. Why not deal with the hospital situation as well? Let us deal with it all at once.' What justification has the honourable member for making that claim? If we look at what he put forward we find that he did not give any reasons at all for suggesting that this approach be adopted. All he proposed was a complete tearing up of a very satisfactory scheme that has operated very well for a long time and one which has lifted the standards of hospitals in this nation to a very high level indeed. 
We have just listened to quite a remarkable contribution by a member of the Opposition, inasmuch as he emphasised the rural problem but contradicted himself completely in the process and spoke of an apartheid approach by this Government. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  very loosely referred to interests other than rural interests when he mentioned apartheid but he did not come to the point of telling us what he meant. He hid that among a lot of garbled words, and one can only conclude that his proposition was that there should be a removal of estate duty from all sections of the community. I do not dispute that this would be desirable, but 1 want to place first and foremost the problems of the rural industries. I want to direct the attention of the House to the matter with which we are really dealing, namely, the relief of estate duty on rural estates. There is nothing apartheid about this. The Government is being positive in what it has put forward. It has indicated in very clear terms - I think this must have escaped the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  to some extent - the benefit that should flow from the proposed relief from estate duty. Quite frankly, I can find nothing in the amendment that would afford any improvement to the proposed legislation. In fact all that the amendment would do would be to take away the immediate prospects of benefits to those who really need it. 
This legislation is designed to have retrospective effect from 24th September last. It is designed in such a fashion as to give that relief to the efficient and practical farming interests which, by virtue of the impost of estate duty could find themselves unable to keep assembled in one unit and in one efficient operation the kind of rural enterprise that is very important to this nation. 1 refere to the whole range of farming enterprises whether it be wool, wheat, dairying, fruit growing or anything else. The reason is quite a simple one. This legislation is the result of a very careful examination of this problem by members of my Party and by the Government, and I express appreciation to the Government for recognising the value of what could be achieved by this legislation in the terms in which it is presented to this Parliament. The objective is to ensure the continuation of viable farming enterprises which the honourable member for Riverina seems not to understand, and which he chooses to describe in a very loose fashion, but which are in fact the bulwark of primary industry. On a property engaged in stud breeding the loss can be quite considerable if there has to be a sell-off of some  at  the stock. If one has a very efficient enterprise in agriculture the selling of some assets may disturb completely the overall operation. 
This measure has been designed to meet this kind of difficulty and it takes into account very fully indeed some of the dissatisfaction mentioned by the honourable member for Riverina. He referred to land values. Is not this measure specifically to remove the problem of the increase in land values in regard to assessment of duty on estates? If it is not then 1 give up completely - I cannot read; I cannot understand plain English. The honourable member for Riverina gave us a long dissertation about the problems of increased valuations and he quoted from a document which I understand was prepared by some people at a place called Edenhope. I have no doubt that he has looked at that document from the front cover to the back. But I put this ro him: Is not the complaint he made that the fall in land values was a serious problem for primary industry? He complained about this fall in land values and yet he has accused the Government of being responsible for an increase in land values. He cannot have it both ways. 
As one who is very much involved in primary industry I want to remind the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports - and I do acknowledge that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports recognises that there is a very high level in terms of capital requirement for farming these days - that if they are advocating a cutting down of the assets of rural producers then certainly they are hitting well below the belt as far as the security of rural industry is concerned. If there is to be stability and if there is to be a continuation of confidence in rural industry it certainly cannot be accomplished by advocating a slashing of values. 
On the other hand my colleagues and I have recognised for a very long time that the rapid increase in valuations is an imposition on the farming community, and that is the reason for this measure, lt is a measure designed to relieve the rural industries of a very substantial cost factor in terms of the maintenance of rural properties so that they might be able to continue not in perpetuity precisely but to continue as the interest of a family or a descendant in a particular way. lt is all quite clearly set out in the Bill what the relationships of those who will derive the benefits shall be and the particular categories and levels of benefit. It is all designed to ensure that there is not a creation of hardship. It has been seen in recent years that there is hardship. This has been recognised. I think it was the honourable member for Melbourne Ports who said that the Government had taken a long time to do this. Someone on the Opposition side said that we had 20 years to do this and we had done nothing. I just want to remind those who put forward that point of view that the Opposition itself is not being very positive in this amendment which says that the proposal should be looked at again; that there should be further review; that we should stand by and expose again to consideration the whole range; and it adds that small business units in the industrial and commercial sector should be included in the benefits. 
If this is the approach I put this question to the Opposition: Does it believe that if there were to be an overall lifting of estate duty the loss of revenue to the nation would permit the sources of revenue to deal with the very many other aspects of primary industry which require financial assistance today? 1 say the answer is no. There is a limit to what this nation can afford in assisting primary industry and I want to see to it that primary industry is assisted to the very maximum. For that reason 1 say that that section of the community, the small business and commercial sector which can only be interpreted as the non-primary industry sector, is in a much happier position economically than is the primary industry sector. 
There is a chorus from the Opposition side. Honourable members opposite want to deny the claim of the honourable member for Riverina. What he said, according to others on the Opposition side, evidently is not true 
The question is posed: What about the country towns? There is, of course, undoubtedly a problem in some country towns but can any member of the Opposition cite to me one country town where the retail price of goods being sold by a country business has not risen in comparison with the retail price in any other town or city in the nation? The answer is no. Certainly some small businesses in country towns have their problems and I do not deny this. I am very conscious of it but 
Opposition members should not for one moment suggest that there is the same kind of low profit to carry on a business in a country town as there is to carry on a rural property, particularly in that section of the country where the effect of falling prices is being felt. This ranges over most primary industries and is recognised as the result of a world-wide trend, the problem of finding markets where the realisations can produce the return that will maintain the same flow of income to the farmer. This is not the fault of this Government. This is not the fault of this nation. It is just the consequence of the eventualities of the day and our responsiblity as a government - and we accept it in this measure - is to give relief where relief can be given. I have always been an advocate of the removal as far as is possible of estate duty on rural properties for the reasons that 1 have already canvassed. 
The honourable member for Riverina went on to illustrate the position of a family enterprise which as a result of this crisis - and 1 presume he is talking about the crisis we have heard him to be so vocal about in recent times - sees the end of an occupancy of a farm after 5 generations of, I presume, ownership. Does he deny that this measure would be a help in a case like that? Of course it would. This is a positive approach by this Government in this situation. If the Opposition's only answer is to say that the same benefit should be spread more widely and that it should be given to every section of the community irrespective of its economic situation, I say that the Opposition is being quite irresponsible. I am not able to quote the precise cost from a Budget standpoint of this measure. I am sorry that I cannot. If I believed for one moment that the Opposition would treat the matter as it has I certainly would have inquired and referred to the total1 cost. But one can assume that it runs into several millions of dollars. It is by no means a small and insignificant contribution to the benefit of rural industry at this time when rural industry needs and deserves benefits of this magnitude. If it were to be spread over a wide section of the community or over the total community then, despite the disagreement indicated by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports by shaking his head a moment ago, certainly there would be a reluctance to make the benefits as liberal as they are. For that reason the total cost from a Budget point of view would be tremendous. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports knows that. He still shakes his head. 
I put it to you that if 1% of the Budget, in terms of further concessions to the rural industry, can be spread over the total rural industry and not over those other sections which do not need it at this time, the benefit to the rural industry would be very much greater indeed. 
I seem to be worrying members of the Opposition. This is evidence of their lack of concern for the primary producer. This is evidence of a lack on the part of the Opposition of a completely endorsed policy for primary industry. 
I know that the honourable member for Dawson is dedicated in these matters. He must often wonder what the Labor Party would do in government if he had to get the endorsement of all his colleagues for the kind of things which he advocates in this House. We have the evidence here tonight that there are differing views. I am sure that the rural community is very conscious that it could never risk a situation where a measure of this kind could be in the hands of a government of a different political colour from the one we belong to on this side of the House. I would (ike to refer once again to the Opposition's amendment. Paragraph (c) of the Opposition's amendment states:  that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States. 
This is very true and it was for this very reason that not many years ago the Commonwealth completely relaxed and in fact abandoned its interest in land taxation. What happened? The States, which did not previously levy heavy land taxation, took the opportunity to step in and take over in this field. I ask: If we were completely to withdraw our interest in estate duty, what would be the consequence? I think that one can predict it with certainty. 
The States would take the opportunity straight away to come into this field more strongly and completely remove the benefits that we might give. I referred to the incidence of land tax because it was a very clear policy enunciated by the present Government not so many years ago that it would leave this field to other interests. In particular the inference to be drawn was that this field would be left to local government. This did not happen. I want to issue a warning tonight that if this section of the Opposition's amendment were by accident to receive support it would throw completely back into the hands of the States collectively but acting separately, the opportunity to come into this field as the sole operators so to speak, and the danger of that is clearly obvious. I hope that this will be understood in the electorate of the honourable member for Riverina and also in other country electorates. 
If there is to be a continuing benefit of the kind that this legislation offers, for goodness sake make sure that this national Parliament and this Federal Government keep some control over the incidence of estate duty and all of its ramifications. I do not want to weary the House. I believe that the Government's case is very clear cut. The Government has put forward its reasons for this proposition; it has done so with clarity. It has set about the task of providing a graduated means of relief giving first of all benefits directly to that category where a primary producer's estate is passing to his widow, his children or his grandchildren. 
Secondly, this legislation gives a shading out in respect of smaller estates passing to close relatives. Thirdly it gives a measure pf relief where there is a dutiable estate in respect of which there are those who have a particular stake in primary industry as participants in the estate. In each of these categories there is a graduated calculation designed to give the benefit to what might be described as the typical and economic unit in primary production. The legislation is designed to assist the type of property or enterprise that needs protection; the type of property or interest that is not economically strong enough to meet the demands of estate duty and other estate charges without resort to perhaps cashing some of the assets, the loss of which would jeopardise the continuation of the unit as a satisfactory producing unit. This provision cuts off at a point where it can be calculated that the economic capacity of the farm unit is great enough to stand the cost of duty. I can see nothing more practical than this measure. Certainly we would like to see it liberalised perhaps even a little more. 
All of us who represent country interests and all of us who represent any interest at all are keen to see a benefit that might be a little better, or a great deal better for that matter, than what we are able to achieve. But I am one who is particularly grateful when something positive and satisfactory can be seen to be done and in fact is accomplished. 
What the legislation before us proposes will be an accomplishment for country interests. It will be an accomplishment for the Australian Country Party. I well recall our leader, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  raising the question of the importance of matters of this kind if we are to meet the challenge that we face today in rural industries. To provide a solution to economic problems across the board is quite often a difficult thing to accomplish. But piece by piece and with precision and the right approach things can be done. The legislation before us is evidence of things being done and things being accomplished. The legislation on its own does not solve the total problem. But it is a very useful and a very positive contribution. As I said earlier, the Opposition fails to recognise this and wants to turn the whole proposal into another hotch potch approach which would be so lacking in precision that we would get nowhere with it. I support the Bill. I commend it to the House and I say to the Government, on behalf of country interests: Thank you for what is being done for Australia. 
I rise to support the Bill. I do so with a great deal of concern for the welfare of the community. My concern is that the community should get the benefit of what the Government is offering. The Government is proposing, and this Bill will give effect to the proposal, a very positive approach to one problem area of the health services of this country. That problem area is the extremely high cost of operations. When a patient undergoes an operation, very often unexpectedly or as a consequence of prolonged illness or where the person involved has not been able to foresee the eventuality of an operation, the really worrying financial burden of that operation will henceforth be removed. That burden is not only a purely psychological problem but to a very large proportion of Australians is a very real and material problem. One of the early propositions of the Gorton-McEwen Government was that a careful study would be made of the areas of real need in the health and hospital services of this nation. As honourable members will recall, the first positive move was to overcome the disability of people who found themselves hospitalised for long periods. This is an accomplishment which has relieved the community of what in fact could be regarded as the greatest burden in this field. 
The second burden is the one to which 1 have just referred and is the subject of the proposals now before the House. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  tended to wave this matter aside and to say: 'Well, there is no question here. All of this would be easily resolved if in fact the Opposition's nationalisation approach to health in this country were adopted.' He went on further to say that it seemed strange that after the 1969 election the measure now before the House should in fact involve suggestions from the Government side for further discussions with medical practitioners, with the several groups of the profession. 
I think it was the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who said: 'Anyhow, this has been a sell-out to the Australian Medical Association.' I want to contrast what the Government is doing with what the Opposition would do, according to its own admissions in this debate. The Opposition would with one stroke of the pen. so to speak, implement a scheme based entirely on the premise of striking a special tax and then paying the bills. 1 suggest to the House that the inference that th s proposition has turned out to be more costly and the early estimates found to be not quite accurate is a reflection on the Government. The honourable member for Prospect laughs at this. I put it to him that if the proposition of his Party were under careful scrutiny to the extent of the preparation of a Bill and to the extent that - heaven help us - it was being implemented in this House, there would be many areas of detail that would throw up not just the simple problems that this Bill has revealed but a whole host of detail which has not even been thought of or recognised by the Opposition. 1 base my contention on the simple observations that one can make of the operation of the national health scheme of the United Kingdom where the estimates time and time again were found to be far short of the eventual requirement and where all of the operation, particularly on the medical side, turned out to be vastly different from what was foreseen in the initial proposition. 
There is nothing novel about what we have discovered in the process of getting down to business and getting into the details of the implementation of this proposal. But what in fact is occurring - and the Government must be given credit for this - is that care is being taken to see that what is done will be practical; that what is done will be effective and that what is done will be workable. lt is for this reason that Government supporters have proposed further discussions and the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  very clearly enunciated ari approach which will give a full and open opportunity for negotiations with the medical profession far further deliberations on the various categories in terms of the schedules to the Bill and in particular on matters upon which the profession has expressed some concern. 
I now turn to my own interest in this measure. I, like other honourable members, have had discussions with doctors in my electorate and those discussions have been most useful. In fact they were fruitful to the extent that I feel as a supporter of the Government that I am able to put to this House some very useful comments and I. propose to do so, but at the outset I want to quote from a letter presented by way of a deputation from the doctors in my electorate. One paragraph states: 
We favour the principle of the common fee. 
They have submitted quite definitely that they are in accord with the forward thinking of the Government to try to improve the overall approach to health and medical services. But quite properly they have expressed concern about some aspects of the Bill, and those aspects are the subject of debate in this chamber. Here and now they will be the subject of further consideration as we proceed in a very proper way to deal with this measure. 
One aspect raised which has concerned me as a country member and others representing country electorates is the question of the final determination of the matter of referral by a general practitioner to a specialist. In introducing the measure the Minister for Health made it clear that the Government was conferring with the profession in this regard. He indicated that the Bill made provision for a prescribed regulation to cover this matter of referral, so I do what I believe to be the obvious thing in speaking to the measure. I express the views of the doctors who have approached me, who believe that a very firm system should be put into operation in this regard. The Minister told the House that one of the propositions that would be examined in consultation with the profession was that an official form bc provided so that  a  general practitioner can indicate in writing that a referral is being made and name the person to whom the patient is referred, and there will be a quite positive cover of this aspect. 
Why not in triplicate? Perhaps there should be a fourth form for some reason or other. This is the way to ensure that the system will work; that it will not be loose and clumsy; that it will achieve the desired end; and that it will protect to some extent the interests of the general practitioner while on the other hand giving the specialist, or the person in whatever field it is to whom the patient is referred, a quite positive referral and not something that is left in doubt. If this is done I believe that the fear that has been expressed by a section of the profession will be satisfactorily covered. Some concern has also been expressed as to the definition of 'specialist'. It has been put to me that there is a need for some clarification. I have gone carefully through what the Minister has already indicated and I have no doubt that this aspect will be very properly covered in the information that will be given by the Minister on behalf of the Government. 

 Dr Gim ; What about the committee criteria? 
The honourable member says: 'What about the committee?' Of course there will be proper provision for this. It is intended that there will be a committee to deal with this but I am talking about the definition. 1 am talking about the base from which we will begin and I think that this is all important. I have no doubt that members of the Opposition, if they take the time to look into the details, will agree that once the base is established we are on a correct course for the operation of the committee that will ultimately function. The guide lines of course must be there but the issue as to the differentiation between a general practitioner and a specialist has caused, as I said a moment ago, some concern particularly in country areas. I express the view that someone who in fact is in part in general practice but who specialises and who is qualified in a specialised field will be recognised. I have no doubt that this will be done. But it will clear up one point - one point of many which have caused some debate and which have, quite properly, been matters of interest in the consideration which the profession has given this proposal since the Government announced it and since the Bill initially came into this House. 
In country areas we are concerned - and I have no doubt that this goes for members on both sides of the House, and certainly it is a matter which concerns the Government - that the general practitioner should in any way be jeopardised or should in any way see anything that will erode his status in the community. I am talking of status not only from the point of view of a professional level but also from the point of view of community service. A general practitioner is always seen as someone who serves the community. He is friend, adviser, philosopher and goodness knows what else to families and in many instances has lived a lifetime in a particular community. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  I know, has a particular interest in this field as do so many others from country electorates- We want to be sure - and 1 am certain from my own detailed discussions on this subject that this will be the case as time goes on - that we will preserve this status- The status is an important one and is the real bulwark, so to speak, of the medical service in the far flung parts of Australia, and for that matter even in suburban areas. 
We think of those who answer calls at any hour and who might be obliged to drive 15 or 20 miles to reach a patient and on arrival might have to deal with quite extensive practical difficulties before even getting down to the medical matter that is involved. This requires a particular kind of person - a personality in the first place; a person of patience and perseverence; a person who is dedicated and who is not concerned merely with financial return or with the material things of life but whose main concern really is to do his best, whatever the circumstances might be. The same dedicated people are the first to say. where there is a need, that they must quickly get the patient to a specialist. They are also the ones who are concerned if this course of action involves some terribly expensive outlay, say if an immediate operation is required. They are just as worried as the patient. Nothing will help the cause better than for them to be able to say: 'Well, you will have to have an immediate op. We will have to arrange for transportation by ambulance for a journey of. say, 20. 40 or 50 miles. When you get there you will have peace of mind and the job will be done.' The purpose of this measure is to give that facility, to give that opportunity and to give that assurance to those who so often find themselves in need of it. 
I know that statistics show that the percentage of operations from total treatments in a year is comparatively low. It is something like 3.5%. Nevertheless it is this area that continues to cause a degree of hardship. The objective is to overcome this hardship. Other honourable members who have spoken have referred to the set fees in the schedule and so on. I do not want to traverse that ground again. I want, however, to refer to one aspect. This is the question of the common fee as it affects a patient who is obliged to undergo surgery plus other incidental things at the same time. Perhaps the other treatment is not so incidental if we take as an example a person who is admitted for a certain operation - say the removal of a kidney - and at the same time it is decided, for obvious reasons, to nail a fractured hip or to do something else. There is need for some explanation as to how the $5 fee will cover a situation where there are a number of operation procedures in the one case and at the one time. I have no doubt that this has been well and truly considered and that there is a clear answer to be given. But I hope that when the Minister speaks in reply at the end of this debate he will clear up this point. 
J also hope that there will be clarification as to who is to receive the $5 and as to how the participants in a major surgical operation involving anaesthetists and others are to be treated and accounted for. 1 am sure that there is a simple answer to this. But the question has been posed. When we think in terms of some of the complicated cases that can ultimately involve surgery we can see that there is a need for some clarification. For instance, take a simple appendix case. Someone could find that he is involved with a problem and he is not sure what it is. He consults his doctor and the doctor says: 'Well, perhaps you have appendix trouble - T am not sure.' The doctor might say to do this and to do that and to come back and see him again. Sometimes this can run on for a period and involves cost. There may be other instances where it is found that an abscess has developed. 
I am not a doctor but I am trying to describe a complicated situation where, for example, surgery cannot be performed for a period of time; the final action of removing the appendix is not taken for some time. All the while a fairly extensive cost factor has been built up. I hope that we will have this point clarified as well. I hope that the Minister will clarify the starting point and the cut off point as to the precise relationship of a complicated case of this kind as against the schedule of the Bill where there is a fixed figure or a fee for what is described as appendix - and there are several descriptions of it. But the schedule does not go to the point where the layman can interpret what is meant. So we can see that there could be instances - I suppose this has to be one of the chances taken, taking the good with the bad so to speak - in which someone could have an extensive period of treatment without operation and who maybe does not get the cover that would apply to someone who goes straight in for an immediate operation and soon comes out again. There is, of course, as a consequence a lower cost factor to the patient in the latter case. 
The Opposition has given a great deal of time in this debate to the question of hospital services, to what they describe as complete inadequacies in the hospital services of this nation. They have done so with the implication all the while that this would be resolved if the Opposition's proposal for a national health scheme based on a special rate of taxation were implemented. I fail to see the relationship. ] fail to see how the Opposition's nationalisation plan would resolve the hospital problems of this nation. Quite frankly, I think honourable members opposite are making the whole matter so confused that heaven help the general public when it comes to understanding what this is all about. This measure is specifically to deal with the provision of an entirely new approach to the question of operations and to give a benefit to every Australian to the extent that for $5 an operation will be performed and that the person involved will not have to find additional funds towards the cost of that operation unless, of course, the cost exceeds the common fee that is established in the schedule to the Bill. This is quite separate from the matter of deficiencies in hospitals in the various States and Territories. But the Nimmo Committee's report has made some positive recommendations about hospitals and, as the Minister for Health indicated recently, these have been referred to the States which have a particular interest in them to the extent that they run the hospitals. Quite properly it is the province of the States to make suggestions to the Commonwealth about the running of hospitals. I do not believe that we can consider hospital problems separated from health services generally but one total decision will not solve all the problems. It is for this reason that this measure is so important. It is important to get this scheme operating for the benefit of the community and then one area of serious disability will have been resolved. It will then be possible to turn to other areas and over a period of time to effect substantial improvements. 
I answer the query quite positively: Within the limit of the financial capacity to carry out improvements I believe that the resources of this nation are being channelled in the correct direction. I would rather see $30m go into this proposition than see such a sum go into hospitals and still leave people facing hardship - still leave the citizen who faces a serious operation with the necessity to foot the bill, having to provide $200, $300 or $400 in some instances which he is not able to find. This becomes a great burden on such people and on their families. Surely this legislation is a priority matter. Surely it is a move in the right direction for all Australians. 
I reiterate what I have said about the importance of the general1 practitioner, particularly in country areas. It is obvious that we do not in this measure solve all of the problems that confront us so far as general practitioners are concerned because not only are the standards and qualifications largely established by State instrumentalities but also their relatione with public hospitals are established by State authorities. I think it is proper in this debate to urge that quite apart from this measure some special consideration should be given to the interests of the general practitioner. We should aim to maintain his status. We should endeavour to see whether it is practical to introduce a specialist level in the general practitioner field. I understand that the Royal Brisbane Hospital1 offers 2 fellowships for general practitioners so that they might become specialists but still in the field of general practice. This is a move in the right direction. 
I would imagine that there is considerable scope for raising the status of the general practitioner by recognising that he can become a specialist in certain fields. This would be in line with the situation we find in country  areas  where we have group practices and clinics and where within those groups there are specialists. Where a general practitioner in a group finds that he has a case needing something that he is not able  to  provide he may refer the patient to the specialist  in  the group, whose consulting rooms are  likely  to be just along the corridor. This seems to me to be a proper approach and one which operates in the interests of country people. It is in effect decentralisation of medicine and surgery where we have, virtually on the spot, people who can deal with the most complex cases brought to them. So I urge that we encourage the general practitioner to see in his profession the kind of goal that exists in the specialist fields. If these are worthy objectives then the fears that have been expressed about the general practitioner may not be as grave as some people believe them to be. 
Other honourable members who have participated in the debate have referred at length to the matter of the common fee. I, like other Government supporters, urge that this aspect be examined carefully before this measure passes through the Committee stages. I urge further that when the Bill is in the Committee stages there be further negotiations between the Government and representatives of the profession  in order  to give the greatest opportunity to write into the Schedule of the Bill the best possible arrangement on fees having regard to the interests not only of the specialists and the general practitioners but of the patients and the taxpayers who will' foot the bill as a consequence of this measure. If this can be done we will get for all sections of the community the best possible result. 
The criticism which the Opposition has levelled at the proposals contained in this Bill is without foundation. If we follow the course outlined in the Bill we will be doing the best for everyone. We are taking the interests of all into account and that is the proper way for a measure of this kind to proceed through the Parliament. I support the Bill and thoroughly commend it. 
This measure provides an improved arrangement for our export industries. This development is very desirable if we are to build up our export income and, in particular, to find the result of this in the improvement of our overseas balance of payments. I want to refer very briefly to the significance of this to all sections of industry. The measure, as is well known, will increase by $100m the maximum contingent liabiity of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation and also increases by S60m the maximum contingent liability under contracts of insurance on Australian investments abroad. These 2 provisions are aimed at giving us a greater opportunity to seize upon available markets and to assure those who in the commercial world have the responsibility of undertaking arrangements in the export field of a degree of security in the event of some unforeseen occurrence that could jeopardise a sizeable export arrangement. 
Previous speakers have eulogised this measure and have spoken with enthusiasm about the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, but I want to refer to the comments made by 2 honourable members. Firstly, I want to refer to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  who expressed some doubt about the success of the Government's trade effort; in particular, he referred to Indonesia. He asked why there had been some moderation in our trade with Indonesia and put the view that this measure was perhaps the vehicle that ought to be used to correct the fall in our exports to Indonesia. I want to say straight away that it is obvious that the honourable member for Riverina does not understand trade to the extent that one might have expected he would, because this measure does not encompass arrangements that would enable us to overcome some of the difficulties that our exporters have faced in trade with Indonesia. These difficulties relate to financial arrangements and to the availability from our own manufacturing resources of the kinds of items that are required by the Indonesian market. 
I can instance from my own electorate the efforts of exporters to find markets in 
Indonesia. They have had to contend with very competitive trade arrangements. More affluent countries like Japan and West Germany are able to say to a comparatively poorer nation such as Indonesia: 'We will give you terms over 10 years. We will waive interest. We will do all sorts of things if you buy our goods.' Unfortunately, Australian exporters are not able to offer such lucrative terms, and the only way we can remedy this is to provide greater opportunities for Australian manufacturers and the exporters who attempt to sell our manufactured goods in countries like Indonesia. We do this, first, by endeavouring to meet the cost problems in this nation. I put it to the honourable member for Riverina that he ought to have a word with some of the people he is close to in the trade union movement to see whether they recognise the demands that are being made on industry today for increased wages and improved conditions in the manufacturing sector and put to them that if we are to build up our export industries and if we are to have a better balance in our trade there has to be some effort on the part of the employees if the employer, who after all is the manufacturer, is to meet this stiff competition from other very affluent nations. 
This measure assists only specific trade arrangements and does not deal with the competitive costs facing our manufacturing industries. We find too that some of our primary industries are beset by the same problems. They are placed in a very difficult position. We find that Australian producers who are facing great difficulties and falling returns could sell on some of these markets, but at give away prices. Other affluent nations can afford to subsidise their primary producers to an enormous extent. This applies to dairy produce in particular. lt applies to many other fields, and it is the problem that we face today. I hope that the honourable member for Riverina will take the trouble to study this side of the trading situation around the world before he tells this Parliament that the Government is not doing enough in this direction. If he is honest he will discover that our efforts far transcend those of many other nations. We have achieved great results for the dairy industry by arranging for the construction of plants in Eastern countries for the reconstitution of milk products. As a result we can meet competition and can offer the customer more attractive terms in the price that he is able to pay and the quantity that he is able to consume. This measure is of tremendous assistance in this kind of activity. It assists a major primary industry that faces difficulties in disposing of its produce. It is to the credit of this Government that we are able to see success in this direction and to see it backed by the kind of legislation that is before the House today. 
I pay a tribute to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  whose tremendous drive and enthusiasm was the motivating factor that brought the legislation into operation in 1956. Since that time he has taken great care to see the legislation expanded to serve the export industries in a very effective and practical way. lt was the same drive and enthusiasm that occasioned the decision of the Government to bring to this House the Bill which we have before us to extend the work of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. I am surprised at the doubt expressed by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  as to the substance of the comments made by the Minister in his second reading speech. I could not quite detect what the honourable member for Balaclava was driving at when he said that the Minister had suggested that there was some reluctance to accept the original proposals in 1956 but that research in Hansard and the newspapers seemed to contradict this view. I put it to the honourable member for Balaclava that his final comments, when he said that he had doubts about the Industry Development Corporation, sum the matter up. T remind him that similar comments were undoubtedly made in 1956 regarding the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, which today is seen as evidence of the success of a practical approach in a matter of great importance for our trade arrangements. The Industry Development Corporation will be seen to be no less spectacular when we deal with it in the very near future. I hope that the honourable member for Balaclava will not see any reason for confusion in what the Minister has said but that he will very carefully analyse details of the broad spectrum of our trading arrangements, and the related factors, which are important if we are to see an expansion of our international trade. 
International. trade is a 2-way operation. We cannot achieve a build-up of the significance that we want to see in this country without at the same time giving encouragement to both our primary and secondary industries, in particular to manufacturing enterprises which produce the great bulk of our export commodities. That is the purpose of this measure; it is the purpose of the other measure that has been referred to in this debate, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. I venture to say that in the next decade Australia's economy will depend very much on the success of measures of this kind. Unless we are able to strengthen our economy in the face of very stiff world competition then we will be the poorer. 
I referred earlier to some of the comments of the honourable member for Riverina. I want to return to the rural sector for a moment, because I believe there has not been sufficient realisation of the importance of this measure to our rural industries. The value of trade iri wool covered by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation this year is $84. lm compared with $69.3m last year. Similar increases have occurred in some of our other primary industries. This shows that we are endeavouring to get markets in more difficult areas where there are greater risks and where there is a need for the kind of protection that is offered by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, lt shows, too, that notwithstanding the great importance of secondary and manufacturing industries, primary industry still plays a vital role in our exports and the returns that come from them and which contribute so largely to our balance of payments. Without this we could not attempt to sustain our primary industries. 
It will be vital in the next decade and undoubtedly in the immediate short term that there be greater Government support for primary industry. This can be achieved only if we Have buoyancy in our general economy. We oan achieve buoyancy only if the broad spectrum of manufacturing and commercial activities are given the opportunity to participate in world markets that will produce an economic return for enterprise and industry. To do this we need a very clear relationship between the flow of capital, firstly, for developmental purposes and for the building up of export industries, and secondly, for that very important element of the export trade, the direct financing of exports. A very desirable and useful adjunct would be our ability to finance purchases by other nations. We are limited greatly in what we can do in this direction. Certainly, we can go further if there is security for the exporter of the kind provided in this measure. This is the only answer to the difficult task of opening up trade opportunities in competition with other nations which have greater resources than we have. 
Any suggestion that a measure of this kind is, to a degree, Government intrusion in free enterprise or a form of socialisation is to place a wrong construction on the objectives of the measure. It is a very desirable and very useful medium of Government backing for free enterprise to do the job of work that only free enterprise can undertake. I commend speakers on both sides of the House who have clearly recognised that important factor in the debate. Unless that is the basis upon which a matter of this kind is to be recognised we are not able in this Parliament to understand effectively the importance to the nation of what we are doing by way of legislation. 
No matter how large or how small may be the enterprise of the individual trader who seeks protection under this measure, it is a contribution to the progress of Australia because every time we open an individual market or sustain an existing market we have taken a step forward in building up and consolidating the economic strength and capacity of this Commonwealth. Despite the difficulties and the problems of trying to increase the scope of our activities, particularly in the underdeveloped nations, this is a medium that will at least give us an opportunity to attempt to compete with others and to attempt to make useful trade arrangements with a vast range of markets varying in many ways. The variation will depend on whether the trade is direct with a recognised company, perhaps of world repute, or with some small trader who is virtually unknown to the Australian market scene and whose position in terms of credit worthiness and of substance cannot be taken for granted but where there is wisdom in taking a risk in order to participate in the furthering of our export trade. This measure gives a degree of protection to those who negotiate in this difficult field. The protection it offers will encourage people to face this type of difficulty and to do a job of work that will benefit every Australian. I commend the measure and I hope there will be similar recognition in the later debate of the significance and importance of the Industrial Development Corporation 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. 1 refer to the projected further programme of flood mitigation works ou New South Wales coastal rivers, the cost of which is proposed to bc financed partly by the New South Wales State Government and partly by the Commonwealth Government. Have negotiations between the Commonwealth Government and the New South Wales Government concerning the provision of $8.3m by the Commonwealth towards this important community disability alleviation project been sufficiently finalised despite long delays to enable the proposal to come before the Government and the Parliament for legislative action? 
I want to advance the view that the matter before the Chair is of a nature that warrants the support of the House. The Chair has made a ruling, and there has been a motion of dissent from that ruling. The dissent motion is quite erroneous. A direct negative is not proposed in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson).  I submit that if a careful analysis is made of precedent in this matter in this House and of procedure in the House of Commons, it will be found quite positively and clearly that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey is in no way a direct negative of the earlier amendment. 
Honourable members opposite may laugh. They can deride what I am saying if they wish, but the facts are quite clear. This is not a direct negative. I speak with some experience in this matter as I have served in both State and Federal Parliaments. I can remember many occasions in my experience in the New South Wales Parliament when matters similar to the one we are discussing were considered, and the premise upon which those matters were advanced was in line with the premise upon which the matter presently before the Chair here is based. I want to say quite clearly from this side of the House that the Opposition's proposition fails because there is nothing whatsoever to substantiate it. Let me take the simplest possible analogy. If the proposition was that a certain thing be done and if the amendment said that that thing should not be done, it would then be a direct negative. 
But let me take the 2 amendments. The words in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  earlier today are quite clear and positive. They have been circulated in this House and 1 do not propose to read them. But the honourable member for Casey has submitted an amendment which is in no way a direct negative of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson.  Mr Speaker,  I submit that it is your right to rule the Opposition's proposition out of order. I also submit that what has been proposed by the Opposition does not require you to rule that the second amendment is in any way a direct negative of the original amendment.  Mr Speaker,  if it is necessary to take this question to a division, I urge that the House should support your ruling. 
You,  Mr Speaker,  are there as the custodian of the Standing Orders. You have at your disposal not only precedent but also the matters that are set out clearly in the Standing Orders. I urge that you,  Sir, of  course with the advice of the  Clerk  of the House, should have regard not only to what is set out clearly in the Standing Orders but also to precedent. If you do that, there is no question as to what your decision in this matter should be. You should rule that the proposition that you should regard the amendment to the amendment before the House as a direct negatitve is not in fact valid. Those honourable members who have already spoken could not advance 1 reason, in terms of precedent or rules of debate, why this is a matter in which you should reverse your ruling.  Sir, they  could not substantiate their claim. If we are to go into detail in this matter, I suggest that any honourable member opposite who supports the contention that your ruling should be dissented from should advance some substantive reason why you should do so. So far we have heard an expression of view based only on purely political grounds. 
There has been a consideration of a matter that relates only to the amendment that was before the House earlier today. A very lengthy debate took place regarding that matter. At the end of that debate the honourable member for Casey moved a quite proper and precise amendment. It was not a direct negative of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson.  Mr Speaker,  I submit that you have no alternative but to rule that this is not a matter in which a direct negative is involved. I submit you should rule that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey is perfectly in order and that this House should forthwith proceed to deal with that amendment. Of course I realise that under the Standing Orders you cannot do that until the seconder of the motion for dissent has spoken. I now challenge the seconder of the motion to rise and give' any evidence that he can produce to show why your ruling should be dissented from. I say quite clearly and positively that he cannot do that. If he thinks he can I challenge him to quote from the Standing Orders or to call upon some guidance from precedents in this matter which would substantiate such a claim. 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Army been drawn to a statement made by an official of the Victorian Dairy Farmers Organisation claiming that margarine is being issued to Australian soldiers as part of their combat ration pack? 1 ask further: Is the Minister aware that as long ago as the Second World War troops were supplied with tropical spread butter with a low melting level? Could the Army in future take action to supply tropical spread butter instead of margarine to all Army personnel? 
That is not true. 
You are dealing with the wrong Bill. 
Another proposition I could advance is that the remainder of production be purchased by the national authority to go into a No. 2 pool, to be sold at world equity prices as soon as the subsidy could be abolished. I am sure it could be tapered off in such a scheme in which disincentives will turn rural production from dairying, so long as the subsidy is tied around the necks of the taxpayers and not helping to induce self respect and self reliance in dairy farmers. The producers could be given loans at low interest rates to improve their productivity and to assist them to diversify their production, in addition to the proposal to phase out marginal farms. 
I do not wish to engage in glowing eulogies on the good points of the Bill. I accept and support the measure, but I suggest that there should be a co-ordinated approach to this recurring problem in all rural industries. As 1 have said time and again in this House there are basic principles. The small producer should be protected. We do not want the big producer to be oversubsidised. These basic principles should be enunciated by governments and not by producers. If the producers will discuss these points with tha Government and accept them, as I feel sure they will, the blame for not putting them into effect will lie with the Government and not with the industry. 
 Is this the waterside workers' viewpoint? 
The Government is approaching this problem in the wrong way. If you had not suffered from a lousy inferiority complex over the years in respect of overseas trade, and have been almost stupid in not appreciating the bargaining position we had, and if you had not sat as you have sat for almost 20 long years without displaying any initiative at all to gain overseas markets for a whole range of products, we would not need to be discussing this problem ' tonight. Earlier today you talked about freight rates. You have done nothing at all. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock) - Order! I remind the honourable member for Sturt that he should address the Chair and also that he is tending to get away with remarks that are. unparliamentary. 
I rise to support the measure before the House. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has for a very long time attempted to negotiate with the States on behalf of the Commonwealth to introduce this quite dramatic programme of reconstruction of the Australian dairying industry. It is very pleasing that Western Australia should have accepted the scheme. As a consequence we now are able to deal in this House with a Bill the basis of which is an agreement between the Commonwealth and Western Australia and upon which can be patterned similar agreements with the other States. The reasoning behind this measure has been well canvassed and 
I want to express my admiration, if I may put it that way, for the expressions that we have heard from most speakers in this debate because they have recognised the significant difficulties which have confronted the dairying industry and the remedies which are necessary to deal with the requirements of the industry. 
Not only hus Western Australia formally accepted the agreement but also, I understand, Tasmania is favourably disposed to accepting it. 1 hope that we will see similar action in respect of the other States of the Commonwealth. I believe that Queensland will not be long in following suit. In the case of New South Wales, which is my own State, 1 have been alarmed for some time at the fact that there has not been the response that one would reasonably expect. However, I was pleased to read only about 2 days ago that the Minister for Lands in New South Wales has seen merit in this scheme and has in fact expressed the view that there is justification for its introduction in New South Wales. It is, of course, true that a form of reconstruction has been in operation in New South Wales for some time. In electorates such as your own electorate of Lyne,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the electorates of Cowper and Richmond, which comprise the dairying districts of northern New South Wales, a very good start has already been made under the State's scheme, but it falls far short of what can be done under this measure, particularly in respect of the writing off of redundant buildings and the provisionsion which will allow land to be taken up and put to other use. These provisions are quite revolutionary. Infusion of a substantial amount of capital into the work which is necessary to reconstruct the industry is particularly required. I am sure that if the States are able to come to agreement with the Commonwealth soon we will see, over the period during which the amount of $25m will be made available, a very useful result from this proposal. 
I wish to correct one impression which was given by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  He said that there was conflict between the policies of the States and the Commonwealth. He referred in particularly to New South Wales. The honourable member has, of course, failed to look into the details of the pasture scheme which is in operation in New South Wales, particularly in relation to what it means in terms of improving the efficiency of the dairy industry. If the honourable member had looked into the details of this work he would have found that it does not, as he claimed, come into conflict with what is proposed by the Commonwealth in this measure. In fact, the reconstruction scheme supplements what the States have already begun to do. On the other hand, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  canvassed very strongly the importance of building up the efficiency of the industry so that those who wish to remain in it can be sustained and those who are finding difficulty can leave voluntarily. Certainly, to quote the honourable member for Riverina, no cavalier approach is being adopted. This scheme is a completely voluntary proposition and does not involve direction, control or any other imposition. 
I believe that the dairy industry has a very sound future, but it is in need of the kind of re-organisation which this measure makes possible. There is, of course, great need for a cohesive plan which will contain production so that there will be a proper relationship between realisation at a payable price and productivity. This aspect will be, of course, the subject of other debates in this chamber in relation to subsequent legislation. However, inking the whole matter on a broad spectrum, it is obvious that the dairy industry is taking a very proper approach to the problems which confront it. 
I wish to commend those leaders of the industry who have had the wisdom to confer and come forward with constructive suggestions to put to the Government. These very sound reasons are the basis of this measure for the re-arranging of the operations of the industry. They provide the means of sustaining the average dairy farmer, in particular the owner-operator who, with his family, is really the basis or the foundation of a very great industry which has spread across the continent but which is to be found in particular in the northern section of New South Wales, in southern Queensland, in Victoria, in parts of Tasmania and in South Australia and Western Australia. Collectively it is a very significant contributor to the welfare of the nation, lt is of great importance in earning export income. For many reasons it is an industry that is deserving of the kind of support that this measure will make possible. 
The welding together of a practical approach involving considerations of scientific advances which, these days, can make possible efficiency if there is an economic basis, together with considerations of community welfare give us the spectacle of an industry that concerns people; and people are the concern of this Parliament. I support strongly the measure and I hope that we will see a speedy recognition of its worth by the State governments that have been mentioned in the debate this evening. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I refer to the critical problem of low world prices for dairy produce and in particular for butter. What progress has been made in bringing about an international agreement on butter and processed milk products? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the dairy industry reconstruction legislation which was recently passed by this House. Has the New South Wales State Government indicated yet whether it will accept the offer of the Commonwealth to provide finance for this important form of assistance for the dairy industry? 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise to support the legislation for the setting up of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which, I believe, will play a very significant part in the future development of this nation. Despite the criticism that we have heard this evening from the Opposition there is no doubt at all that a future exists for such a corporation. 
We have listened to some quite unfounded criticisms this evening. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  who, I believe, represents that part of Australia which covers at least the main section of the Snowy Mountains area in which this project has been developed and is being brought to completion, has been quite destructive, quite unfair and lacking completely in judgment in what he has said tonight. Of course, the evidence of his lack of understanding is no surprise to honourable members on this side of the House. He became quite personal in an attack on the former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  I deprecate his attitude. He claimed that no Minister had been present in the chamber during the debate. He failed to recognise that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and no responsible member of Labor's shadow Ministry had appeared in the chamber to support his cause. So his arguments fall to the ground. 
I do not want to take up the time of the House in what might be described as spurious approaches to this very important matter. I believe that the accomplishments of the Snowy Mountains Authority have been recognised. The Authority was the means of developing and constructing to a stage of near completion a very great project. The Labor Party fails to recognise that this work is nearing completion. It fails to recognise that there is no project work which can be continued under the Snowy Mountains scheme. So when we ask ourselves what the old Authority can do under its charter we find that there is no project in contemplation which is applicable to the Authority. This is patently clear. The Government has taken into consideration every facet of logical development in this nation in coming to the decision which has resulted in the proposals, embodied in the legislation now before us- a decision that henceforth the Authority should change. The States were approached by the Commonwealth and asked for their views. There were many discussions about the future utilisation of the Authority as it was constituted. The States wanted to guard very jealously their rights to maintain their approach to the construction of water con? servation projects and other major public works projects in the States. 1 had some misgivings about this situation but I am a States righter and 1 believe that there is justification for the States to maintain their sovereignly in this field. This evening the Opposition has demonstrated that if it occupied the treasury bench it would be a centralist political power. These days the allegation is consistently made that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is a centralist. Well, that allegation is not borne out in this matter. 
The Opposition -has claimed this evening that the Snowy. Mountains scheme is a monument to democratic Socialism. This is undoubtedly true but not in terms of the hard cold facts of reality. We recall that the Snowy Mountains Authority did an excellent job in the face of what might be termed the demands of people who did not like this kind of approach to a great public works in this nation. Under the leadership of  Sir William  Hudson and others there developed a relationship between management and labour which set a pattern for low costs, efficiency, completion on time and getting the job done in a way that could not be compared with the old fashioned approach in the States. The Authority is not a monument to democratic Socialism; it is a monument to the drive and initiative of people who went out not to follow the old methods but to introduce new ones, to get new thinking and new concepts and to get the job done. It is a tragedy for Australia that people like the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and so many others have stirred up dissatisfaction amongst the staff of the Snowy Mountains Authority; have caused dis sension; have created misunderstandings; have maligned the former Minister for National Development; have criticised this Government and in so doing have lost sight of what might have been a somewhat better approach to this difficult and complex problem of finding a new role for the Snowy Mountains Authority and the dedicated people who work not only at the executive level but in the field to create in Australia a great organisation. 
The Government has adopted the only course open to it in establishing the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. Any alternative approach would have meant the continuation of an organisation capable of carrying out construction work or calling for tenders for work to be carried out. This would have meant having .in Australia virtually a centralist body which could turn its attention to a project only in cases of difficulty, because after all the Commonwealth's control does not extend beyond the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory or one or two Territories beyond the mainland. When it comes to dealing with work within a State it is a totally different matter. Someone has asked: 'What about Cooma?' He forgets the origin of the Snowy Mountains scheme - the fact that the Constitution provided a certain basis for the establishment of the scheme. This was the interest of the respective States in the waters of the River Murray. This was a clear and precise base which could be used at the Commonwealth level. There has been reference to defence powers and constitutional approaches but fundamentally there was a starting point which made the scheme possible. 
The founders of the Constitution recognised that the River Murray had a particular significance in this continent. This is not the case with other river systems. It is patently clear, therefore, why the Snowy Mountains Authority was not asked to carry -out construction work on, for example, the Ord River scheme; to cany out construction of the Fairbairn Dam in Queensland: to carry out construction of the King River Dam in Victoria; to build the Keith to Tailem Bend pipeline in South Australia; to carry out work on the greater water supply of Western Australia. These are projects being assisted financially by the Commonwealth but their construction is a matter for the respective States. There are many more important works in the national water resources programme. There are many more works coming under the National Water Resources programme, and they are very important works. These include the Copeton Dam and the projected border rivers scheme in New South Wales, a considerable development along the east coast of Australia within my own electorate and those of my colleagues, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and others- 
I was referring to extensive work on the east coast of Australia in the field of flood mitigation. This work is being carried out by local authorities. Again, this work is  somewhat inappropriate for the old Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. I had an interest in the possible future use of some- 
The debate was interrupted. 
It was not moved back to zero. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Has the New South Wales Government yet entered into a formal agreement with the Commonwealth under the terms of the $25m dairy farm reconstruction scheme legislation? If the answer is in the affirmative, when will the scheme begin to operate in New South Wales and what amount of finance will be available in the current financial year for this important rural reconstruction work? I further ask: What can be done to speed .up this important phase of rural reconstruction? 
1 direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the request of the New South Wales Government for special financial assistance from the Commonwealth on a SI for SI basis for the relief of drought in northern New South Wales. Can the Prime Minister indicate to the House when this application from New South Wales was received and what stage has been reached in its consideration by the Government? Further, in view of the seriousness of the drought position in northern New South Wales, will the Government deal with this as a matter of urgency? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembed. The humble petition of residents of N.S.W., respectfully sheweth: Australians, custodians of the world's largest marsupial, the red kangaroo, have allowed it to be reduced so low numerically that even CSIRO research has had to be suspended in some areas and alternative means of research employed in others. 
The kangaroo is being exploited whilst facts on populations and numbers of kangaroos is unknown - any day the numbers can bc reduced below that level needed for survival of droughts and natural mortality. At this date neither the number needed for survival nor the number of kangaroos left is known. 
Pending the outcome of investigations by the Select Committee, it can bc logically assumed that shooters, fearing restrictive legislation in the future, will intensify their efforts to obtain as many animals as possible, while they can. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly urge the State Governments to ban the shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes, at least until the Select Committee has made is investigations and recommendations. 
Add to the Constitution a clause giving power to the Commonwealth Government to act to safeguard any species of wildlife that is endangered through any cause. 
And we, your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Let me begin by congratulating the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on his first Budget. As usual, of course, we have heard and will continue to hear throughout this debate a barrage against the Budget from Opposition members. No constructive budget is ever popular, yet judged against the economic conditions which exist this Budget is less restrictive than the nation expected. Economic writers, Press tipsters and many others painted a gloomy picture indeed in the weeks leading up to the presentation of the Budget. But they were wrong. I am sure that the Opposition is disappointed that more restraint is not contained in the Budget. It sees this as an opportunity to cash in on the nation's problems for political gain. The Opposition has been proved wrong once again. 
This afternoon, we listened to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  The 'modern Messiah' might be a better description of him. He went to great lengths to tell us of the problems which plague the rural industries of this nation. But did he propose any fundamental cure for these problems? Certainly he did 
Dot.  He ranted and raved as he has done on several previous occasions, following precisely the same theme that he has developed on those earlier occasions - with one modern addition. He described the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  as a man of gloom. The Gloomy Dean', I think he described him. He went on to say that the Minister for Trade and Industry had had his last grand tour around the world to try to solve our problems. Then the honourable member for Riverina reflected in a very, very shabby manner his lack of appreciation, understanding or grip of the circumstances as we find them when he referred to the proposal that we, as a nation, should raise these tremendous problems with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade as approaching GATT for 'uncertain mercy'. The honourable member said that no hope was to be found in this direction. 
He went on to eulogise his own prowess, as someone who - perhaps he alone believes - could solve these problems by going straight to the major trading nations of Europe and North America and saying: Look, you fellows are all wrong. We are very good customers. We want a new deal and that new deal should take into account that our trading is running at approximately 2 to 1 on our favour purely on an arithmetical dollar basis as expressed in terms of trading. This is good and sufficient reason for you to change completely our trading arrangements and to renegotiate the whole of the framework of Australia's overseas trade'. What sheer humbug and utter rot to talk in this Parliament! 
First and foremost, 1 think that it must be recognised that we, although a large primary producing nation, do not possess a big stick which we can brandish at other countries and say threateningly: 'Look, we have the power; you do as we say'. The fundamental of trade negotiations is no different from the fundamental of business negotiations, the ordinary ways and means of livelihood in this nation or any other nation. The sooner the honourable member for Riverina realises this the better it will be because he is letting his constituents down and he is misleading the people of Australia who happen to listen to him in this matter. He is misleading them because he is painting a picture of inactivity on the part of the Government. He is claiming failure on the part of the Government. He is quite wrong. At no point in time has he recognised the real problems. I wish, as briefly as I can, to deal with some of these difficulties. 1 have said that the Budget is less restrictive than the nation expected. I wish to express now a view on the problems which Australia faces. It is true, as the Treasury survey entitled The Australian Economy - 1970' states that expectations of growth in the 1970s are great indeed. The performance of the Australian economy in the inaugural year of the decade will not belie these hopes. However, droughts in Queensland, northern New South Wales and Western Australia, lower wool prices, the constraints of marketing difficulties in respect of the wheat crop, the non-profitable prices for dairy products and the difficulties of small crop growers - be they banana growers, fruit growers or small agriculturalists - have produced a devastating scene on the rural side. However, the aggregate of other forms of production showed a notable gain. The cities and the industrial areas are booming. Yet the countryside is in chaos. 
It is true that employment is running at a higher level today than ever before. This is to the credit of the Government. On the other band, when we look at the problems as we find them caused by the pure circumstances of international trade and of productivity in this country which have affected the rural scene, we see that there is chaos in the country. Let me quote relative figures which, I believe, spell out crystal clear the position in which we find ourselves and which we face in Australia today. 
Gross national product at factor cost and the percentage change each year since 1966 reveals that the non-farm sector has risen gradually from 8.8 per cent in 1966-67 to 12.3 per cent in the first threequarters of 1969-70. Yet, if we look at the farm sector figures we see dramatic changes beginning in 1966-67 with a 20.5 per cent situation, a position of minus 21.9 per cent in 1967-68, a figure of 27.8 per cent in 1968-69 brought about by the huge wheat crop and then, because of the effects of severe drought, a figure of minus 12.5 per cent for the first three-quarters of 1969-70. What does this mean? It spells 
Out very clearly that there is buoyancy on the one hand and great difficulty on the Other. 
During the past decade, prices received by Australian farmers on the domestic market have tended upwards. On the other hand, export prices have moved downwards with some particularly marked declines occurring since 1963-64. The overall result has been that the average price received by farmers has changed little in this period while prices paid by farmers have increased at an annual average rate of 2i per cent since 1960-61. Movements in prices received by Australian farmers are the result of the demand and supply forces in both the domestic and overseas markets. But, for the majority of products, export prices are of first importance. This is because of the great bulk commodities of wheat, woof and so on which go onto the export market. 
Technological developments have presented farmers with the opportunity to expand their output considerably. This responsibility has been encouraged by the effect on prices of relatively inflexible demand and the existence of a market structure in the farming industries which has encouraged individual producers to expand output even though such action must have been against their interests. Further, the highly competitive nature of farming means that any technological advance is rapidly and widely accepted. This is true of Australian farmers whose efficiency is without question despite criticism that inefficiency has occurred. 
The result has been that the output of farm commodities has grown at a faster rate than demand. This has created a strong downward pressure on prices. In Europe and North America, which are high income countries, highly protective agricultural policies have been adopted in an attempt to shield farmers against the cost price squeeze. I do not think that the honourable member for Riverina even knows about this fact. If he does, he did not admit it this afternoon. Economic growth and the resulting increase in real income per head have led to an upward trend in the price of labour as well as goods and services. The Australian farmer thus has been faced with a steady and, in total, steep rise in production costs. For those export producers who rely principally upon prices on overseas markets over which they have no control, the result has been a narrowing of the margin between prices received and prices paid. 
The effect on primary producers has been very severe indeed, as I said a moment ago. An indication of the effect of this cost price squeeze can be obtained by comparing the movement in average real net farm incomes with average real incomes accruing in non-farming selfemployed sectors and the average real income per wage and salary earner. 
Since 1960-61 the incomes of selfemployed and wage and salary earners have risen at an average annual rate of something less than 3 per cent whilst farm incomes have fluctuated, without showing a marked upward or downward trend. The ratio of farm incomes to non-farm incomes has declined. Assistance to farmers to best serve the economic interests of the countryside has been in the form of attempts to hinder the movements of cost pressures. Many proposals have been implemented by this Government. Not the least of these were to make available more credit to farmers; to assist through the Commonwealth Development Bank and the farm loan fund; to hold down interest rates at a preferred rate - which is a tremendous help but does not solve the problem; and such measures as the proposed marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme. That is the kind of assistance which is achieving the transfer of resources to a basis which will better equip the farmer to meet the problems with which he is confronted. 
But what do we see today in Australia? Despite these efforts and this approach to the problems we see on the broad spectrum a situation which reflects that we are almost two nations, one rural and one urban, with separate problems, separate solutions and separate destinies. But in fact we are one nation, and we should realise this. However, the Opposition, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and so many others would have the situation the other way. They would like to see a 2-nation approach to these problems. They would like to see the community split right down the middle and the farmers left completely out of the progress and prosperity of this country. I would remind the honourable member for Riverina of something that 1 read the other day. I have no doubt at all as to the facts. The Labor Party met in Caucus and apparently it was proposed to move a motion of urgency in this House on rural problems. What happened? There was a split vote - 34 each side - as to whether the problems of rural industries were worth the time of the Labor Party in this House. What has the honourable member for Riverina to say about that? It is real evidence that there is no concern on the total front of the Labor Party, and certainly there is no concern on the total front of the trade union movement, for rural industries in their great fight for survival. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  disposed of this argument very effectively earlier in the debate this afternoon. 1 do not propose to take time dwelling upon it. Suffice to say that there is a task which concerns this nation and which the Government is taking very seriously. I point out that the Budget has provided a greater degree of assistance for rural industries than has any previous Budget. I believe that the pattern set in the Budget is but the beginning of the tremendous task which has to be undertaken, and is being undertaken, to save the countryside in this day and age. If primary industry collapses then the rest of the country, and everyone in it, will suffer great harm and feel the consequences most severely. There is great danger that the economy - the security of the nation which is basically dependent and will continue for many years to be dependent on the wealth of rural industries - is being undermined slowly but surely by those who do not have a proper regard or a proper concern for the farmers and the primary industries. We must get away from the tendency to think that the countryside can look after itself. 
The Budget provides a basis for a movement forward to help the problems of rural industry. The provision for rural industry has increased by more than 55 per cent on last year, which is the biggest percentage increase of any section of the Budget. This assistance includes an emergency grant of $30m to help the wool growers: S29m for wool promotion and research: S2.9m towards the costs associated with price averaging: and 3650,000 for research into pre-sale objectives and wool measurement. I do not represent a wool growing electorate but I am one who, along with primary producers throughout the nation, recognises the great problems of the wool industry. At the same time I recognise that there are other industries. In the main my concern is for those other industries. Direct financial assistance for the wheat industry under the stabilisation plan amounts to $30m in the Budget; there is $45m for the dairy industry; $56.5m for fertiliser bounties; $21m for devaluation compensation; and $3. 8m for agricultural research. These are but a few of the significant points that the Budget discloses in the great task that the Government has undertaken, to try to salvage and assist the rural industries. There are those who say: 'Why did the Government leave it until now? Why did the Government not act at an earlier time? Why did it fail to foresee these problems?' The answer is a pretty simple one. The Government did foresee these problems, lt did attempt from time to time to introduce new approaches. About 3 years ago the Government p,1 forward a proposition for the wool industry which was sponsored, very strongly, by the industry. It was voted out by the wool growers. I ask: 'Whose fault was that?' It was certainly not the fault of this Government. I could enumerate many other examples of attempts made to assist the wool industry. 
 The honourable member for Dawson is a great advocate of reform after the job has been done. He opposed everything that was put forward by the Minister for Trade and Industry to assist the sugar industry in its time of dire trouble. Now he comes in and says what a remarkable industry the sugar industry is; it is the best organised industry in Australia; it sets a pattern; it is an example we should follow. He said this in his speech on a recent discussion of a matter of public importance. Yet in earlier debates in this House every move the Government made was wrong, according to the honourable member. He said that the Government did not know how to tackle the problems of the sugar industry. I would say to the honourable member for Dawson that he is yet another calamity howler who says that the Government has not acted as it should have and does not know how to do its job. The honourable member is never prepared to recognise what is being done. 
In the last few minutes available to me I want to cover briefly one or two other points. It is ray firm belief that the answer to the problems of primary industry is that we must have a sound base from which to move forward and deal with these problems. It requires determined recognition of the importance of world production control. To exercise production control and bring it into the balance of productivity realisations in a way that will accord with price return, much effort, co-operation and ingenuity is required. There was and still is a tremendous problem in the wheat industry. It will not be solved simply by introducing quotas. The Government admits that quite readily; it always has. The same will apply to the dairy industry. A plan for the management of that industry will have to emerge during the next year or so. I say quite categorically that other forms or assistance proposed by this Government will make these approaches possible. 1 am delighted to know that the dairy industry reconstruction scheme has been accepted by 3 States, Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland. I am disappointed that my own State, New South Wales, has not yet accepted this very important scheme. I hope it will do so within the next few weeks because every day lost means further detriment to the industry. In the case of the wool industry the proposed $30m assistance scheme is purely stop-gap and the other measures of marketing and so on that have been proposed will have to be quickly implemented. I hope that this matter of striking a balance between productivity and price return realisation will be taken into account because it provides the only answer to this problem unless massive sums of money can be raised to pay out unprofitable production or to dump the produce somewhere around the world if. in fact, it. is even moved off the farms. 
There is no other solution beyond, of course, the very worthy objective of transferring all the available production for utilisation in under-developed nations. A tremendous amount has already been accomplished in this direction and there is no further field of opportunity of great magnitude that one can seek. This is recognised by world traders and the major nations. There is no hope for any primary industry that just goes on producing without recognising that there is a limit that should be set on a programme of productivity. There is no doubt at all that these are the factors that will be taken into account in the negotiations that, I am sure, will be launched at the hand of the Minister for Trade and Industry with GATT to try and bring about a better understanding of where we are going with the European Economic Community problem. A better understanding is needed not only by this country but also by our sister country, New Zealand, as well as Canada, the United States and all other traders in the great bulk commodities which will be so adversely affected if the European Economic Community proceeds on the course it has already set and which it has not, at this point of time anyhow, indicated it will moderate in any way. These are the important considerations and I am sure that this Budget provides a basts from which there can be a very effective approach to these problems. 
In the field of social welfare there can be some disappointment with what is provided by the Budget. Again it is a matter of national resources. How far can the Government go in providing assistance in these fields? I would like to have seen the pensioners receive more than 50c, but a $22m outlay for every 50c is a very considerable sum of national expenditure. In the fields of decentralisation and development 1 would like to have seen massive sums provided. It would be a matter in this Budget of choosing between the necessary assistance for primary industry and the desirable assistance to other industries. The field of local government deserves financial help but it can be given only if the Government has the resources available. The Government has to take into account on the other side of the balance sheet the effect of such expenditure on the economy from the point of view of inflation. These are all important considerations. They cannot be glossed over merely by saying that the Government has introduced a sleight of hand Budget, that the Government could have acted in some other way. Someone has to take the responsibility. Every critic fa prepared to point to things he believes have not been done but very few are prepared to say what they would have done as an alternative to this Budget. 
I support the Budget. I deprecate the Opposition's very poor criticism of it and the lack of consistency shown by the Opposition in the manner in which it has attempted to deal with the Budget on this occasion. I suggest that the action taken in this Budget is the right approach to the national economy. It is yet another sound, responsible and proper approach to the needs and aspirations of this nation. 
I present the following  peititon 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representative in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as  S.  D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise whether the Government decided in June last to examine requests for import controls on cheese. Is Australia the only country with an open market for cheese despite the existence of a world surplus of dairy produce and heavy subsidisation of the Australian dairying industry? Did cheese imports in 1968-69 amount to 13 per cent of the total Australian consumption, representing an increasing proportion of Australian consumption? Do countries from which imports are being made into Australia restrict entry of Australian dairy products to their own markets? Can the Minister inform the House what progress has been made in the examination of import controls and what action has so far been taken in this important matter? 
I ask the Treasurer a question which concerns the marked increase in demand by the farm sector of the community for bank loan accommodation. Is consideration being given to the need for long term bank lending through the Farm Development Loan Fund to which the trading banks have access, and term lending through the Development Bank for the purpose of making loans over periods of 15 years or more with suspension of repayments during seasonal difficulties where necessary? In view of the liquidity difficulties facing many primary producers could this means of assisting them be facilitated by the Government as a first step towards debt reconstruction foreshadowed in the recent Budget? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. 1 refer to the offer by the Commonwealth to provide $25m to assist in the urgent task of reconstruction of the Australian dairy industry. I ask: Has any further progress been made in negotiations with New South Wales for the early implementation of this longdelayed, increasingly urgent programme of reconstruction? I further ask why New South Wales stands out of this vital scheme, resulting in the financial benefits being denied the industry in that State whilst Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania are now directly benefiting from this form of special financial assistance. 
I want very briefly to support the motion before the House and to indicate that it is a very important adjunct to the support already being given to the dairying industry but that it is contingent upon the industry, both in respect of dried milk products and other products, being subsidised. Previously it was assisted through a straight-out subsidy and a devaluation payment and as from 1st July last it has been assisted by a general subsidy to cover both fields. It is now a matter of great necessity for the dairying industry to have by 1st July 1971 a satisfactory scheme of production control, an arrangement for the volume of dairy products that will reach the market and an arrangement for the overall management of the industry in order to ensure there will be a continuation of Government assistance and support on a level designed to meet the situation of world overproduction, the loss of world markets and the extreme difficulties that can be the consequence of a situation in which there is not a proper rationale between production and possible commercial realisation. We have seen the dreadful consequences of this in the other major primary industries, those that might be termed the bulks in our primary industries, wheat in particular; and dairying has, of course, had the same kind of problem to face up to. The industry has done this in a very magnificent way this year and I am sure that with the co-operation that has already been displayed between the industry and the Government we will have by 1st July next year a very positive and basic plan upon which to sustain this very important primary industry in Australia. I think it is significant that in this situation we have had a very proper approach, an approach based on facts, on understanding, and certainly a situation in which there has not been political heat. This afternoon we have seen quite unique evidence of this in this chamber. I am sure the industry would appreciate the fact that such an approach is being made. I support the measure and express the hope that there will be a continuation of this kind of approach to matters concerning the dairying industry in the future. 
Environmental problems arc complex and their solution calls for programmes of research, planning, education, legislation, the fixing of standards which require enforcement, and of course public information so that the general public will be informed. This afternoon the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  described certain aspects of the pollution problem as matters of public importance. He completely destroyed his own claims when he set about putting forth his views on this matter. He completely disregarded the action that has been taken by State and Federal governments, and has lost sight of the progress that has taken place and the very remarkable avoidance of pollution that has been achieved in Australia. 1 think he mentioned that he came through Sydney Heads 20 odd years ago, or some considerable time ago. 
The honourable member referred to 1968. I take that point. At that time he observed considerable pollution. He referred to the early morning period. Of course, he fails to recognise that over the years tremendous changes have taken place in the metropolis of Sydney. No longer are there coal-fired locomotives. No longer are there coal-fired furnaces. No longer are many of the causes of smog to which the honourable member referred part of the scene of Sydney. In its stead there has been progression to a modern system of electrification, a very modern approach in the provision of power and the expansion and development of the city of Sydney. 
I am by no means here to advocate the development of Sydney, but I want to point out very clearly that the economic approach of this Government has been responsible for the lifting of living standards in all parts of Australia, which has contributed greatly to the avoidance of the effects of pollution. It can be said quite clearly that in this day and age in Australia hygiene has reached a high point which would not otherwise have been attained. The honourable member for Marybyrnong  (Dr Cass)  told us about the problems of the Yarra. A long time ago someone described that little stream as a river that runs upside down. Historically, it was a muddy stream. Certainly there are pollution problems. That is not denied. It could be said, of course, that the Tank Stream, of Sydney fame, is polluted. No-one mentions it very much these days. As a matter of progress, the Tank Stream disappeared, making way for drainage. 
This brings to mind that, in metropolitan development and the general development of the countryside, drainage of vile swamps and the removal of hazards to life have been achieved. In the process care has been taken for the protection of the environment. Regard which has not been observed in other countries has been had to the aspects of pollution. The Aswan High Dam on the Nile can be taken to demonstrate the difference between the Australian technological approach and the approach that was made in relation to this project. I do not intend to dwell upon that point, but let me say that the record of governments in Australia in this field has been singularly outstanding compared with that of other parts of the world. 
The honourable member for Reid referred to devastation of the countryside. He spoke of increasing farm acreages. He has completely denied the facts in relation to the great conservation programme which was sponsored by. Australian Country Party and Liberal Party enthusiasts back in the 1930s and which has been promoted since that time by Labor and Liberal governments in the States and the Commonwealth to the point where our protection of flora and fauna, as well our care for the conservation of natural resources such as soil and waterways, and the development of good pastures compared with those that, environmentally, would not sustain the natural life of the country, have been achievements to the credit of those who have toiled in this field. And yet today we hear a complete denial of all these things by a few academic enthusiasts who would have everyone believe that pollution in this country is at a comparable level to that of New York or Tokyo. That is complete and utter rot. Nothing like that is occurring in this nation. 
On the other hand, this Government and each of the State governments has cooperated very fully in a proper approach to this problem. Governmental activities in these fields have resulted in steps being taken to ensure that there is protection in the various categories that can be described as pollution problems and where there is a possibility of adverse affects from pollution. The National Health and Medical Research Council has for some time been concerned with many aspects of this problem. The Council is an advisory body to both the Commonwealth and the State governments. It recommendations have no legal standing. The Commonwealth Parliament does not have the constitutional power to intrude into many of these fields which come within State laws. The action of the Council has been positive and in the right direction. In particular, a number of the committees of the Council have pointed out problems to manufacturers of pesticides and agricultural chemicals and have requested them to take into account the dangerous effects of their products on the environment, on life and so on. 
Of major importance has been the contribution of the liaison sub-committees created following recommendations from a conference of Health Ministers as far back as 1968. One sub-committee was asked to investigate the problem of the use of certain detergents. Following discussions with industry, a voluntary changeover from particular chemical base used in detergents has been agreed to and will be effective from 31st December 1971. That is as a result of a proper approach by both the Commonwealth and State governments. There has been no requirement for a law to deal with this matter. This i.% the kind of co-operation that can achieve much more in the protection from pollution than any other approach. 
Consequently, this debate breaks down on the point that ali that has been put to the Government by the Opposition is without basic evidence of failure on the part of this Government or the State governments. It breaks down on the point that there is no recognition of some of the recent statements made on these important matters. Let me quote a reference to pesticides. This is of importance as far as the waterways of this nation are concerned. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  stated officially last week that available evidence did not indicate any threat to local environments from the use of pesticides in Australia. This is the consequence of testing. For exmple, fish taken from parts of the Murray were found to contain remarkably little pesticide residue - in view of the extent to which chemicals were used in the intensive agriculture of the Murray Valley. This is a proper approach and one designed to ensure that harmful and continuing harmful effects will not result from the use of pesticides. Then again, a very careful check of pesticide residue in food has revealed a similar result. The constant inspections which are made by Commonwealth and State inspectors show that gradually over the years residual levels in meat and other foods have continued to decrease. 
In conclusion, I point out that a very remarkable job has been done in Australia regarding the matter of pollution. There is complete recognition of the problem and there is an acceptance of it. I am satisfied, as I am sure most thinking people are, that a positive approach is being made and that scare tactics have been adopted by honourable members opposite in speaking as they have this afternoon. 
Oh no. 
It can give them no comfort or cause for satisfaction because it will not necessarily bring about any upward movement in wool prices. This measure seems to me to be a last desperate throw by the Government to try to save itself at the forthcoming Senate elections. The best that can be said for it is that it may help to halt any further decline in wool prices. It may have a steadying influence, but even in that regard it is a case of hoping for the best but expecting the worst. I say that because there appears to be in the Bill absolutely nothing that is likely to pose an obstacle to buyers' continuing in collusion as they have for so long to force prices down and keep them down. 
Until we produce a plan that will stop collusion wool growers will remain at the mercy of the buyers. The proposal for a reserve price plan is not new. Honourable members will recall that a reserve price scheme was in operation between 1945 and 1951. That scheme was the first worthwhile attempt to bring about a system of organised wool marketing. That scheme operated so well that a move was made by woolgrowers at that time to make it a permanent method of wool disposal. Unfortunately, when it went to the poll, it was rejected. But, of course, it was not rejected because of itself or what it contained, but it was rejected because the government of the day- a Liberal PartyCountry Party coalition, the same as we have at the present moment - which had taken office shortly before the expiration of the scheme imposed a 74 per cent levy to raise money to administer the scheme if the growers voted for it and also brought down a measure to deduct 20 per cent from the gross income of wool growers. These 2 impositions were sufficient to cause the wool growers to vote against the continuation of the scheme even though they realised its value in normal circumstances. 
Since the expiration of that scheme almost 20 years ago, wool marketing in Australia has been allowed to be carried out in a completely haphazard method. Wool buyers have been permitted to have sole control of what the growers will receive for their product. It seems rather strange and indeed very disturbing that this Government, which has been in office for the whole of that time and which surely would have recognised the fact that our wool marketing system was not only unsatisfactory but also a danger to the future of our woolgrowing industry and which as a result of that long experience should not only have been aware of what was required but also have been prepared for what was required to protect wool growers against buyer collusion, should now bring down such a sloppy and imprecise proposal as we have before us this evening - or, should I say, this morning. 
If the concern of the Government for the wool grower was as keen as it suggests, surely it would have had firm proposals all prepared and ready to introduce on short notice. But it seems from the proposals that we have before us now that its concern is mainly for the brokers because certainly there is a much greater measure of protection for those people in this Bill than there is for wool growers. The wool grower today has no more control and no more protection regarding the price that he will receive for his wool than he had in 1932 when the price dropped to slightly below 6d a lb. It was recognised then that buyer collusion was a prime cause of the decrease in price. It was significant that the price between 1929 and 1932 was higher. In 1932 the Commonwealth Wool Inquiry Committee was set up. It brought down its report in October of that year. I wish to quote from the report what one member of the Committee had to say in relation to collusion. The member was  Mr E.  Grayndler. Under the heading: 'Wool Buyers and the Wool Buyers Association', he had this to say: 
In reviewing the evidence as shown in the transcript it is abundantly clear that the woolbuyers have a very close organisation and have such power among themselves to enable them to keep down prices. The existence of 'lot splitting' in my opinion is not as innocent and legitimate on all occasions as their advocates imply. The composition of a 'pie' seems to be readily accomplished at their will. Those in the 'pie' do not bid against each other. The 'pie' may be composed of any number of buyers who desire to secure any part or any lot of wool offered for sale. The evidence tendered by some witnesses indicated that the buyers can exercise a strong influence on the market prices. The constitution, rules and regulations of the Buyers' Association give power to a committee to refuse membership to any buyer, to call upon any member to resign, and to expel any member for any reason that the committee thinks fit, and the member has no redress or any right to take legal action in defence of his rights. 
I am forced to the conclusion, after hearing the evidence on this matter, that the buyers could exercise, if they wished, a stranglehold on the wool market and stifle any successful competition. 
Further, he went on to say: 
Australia has the finest merino in the world and the world needs that high-class wool. Yet under the circumstances obtaining, it is possible for powerful buying groups to stifle competition and obtain our wool at prices below its cost and fair value. 
I have considered it my duty to call attention to the above matters in the interest of the large number of growers who are unable to help themselves out of the difficulties and obstacles that confront them in the disposal of their wool clips. 
So as long ago as 40 years wool growers were plagued with buyer control - not simply buyer resistance but collusion. In fact this has applied almost throughout the auction system. 
In 1958 the New South Wales Government set up a judicial inquiry under  Mr Justice  Cook, if my memory serves me correctly, to investigate wool matters, including the allegation of the existence of pies. The report brought down in 1959 showed conclusively that Australian wool growers were at the mercy of operating pies in die buying area. In 1961 the Commonwealth Wool Marketing Committee of Inquiry was set up under  Mr Justice  Philp but it failed to make any recommendations towards improving the marketing situation. However, as a result of that report we saw the formation of the Australian Wool Board. It incorporated the Australian Wool Bureau and had authority to set up a committee of inquiry into wool marketing. It did this in 1963. 
There has been no lack of inquiries and reports and there has been no lack of information showing that there are pies and buyer collusion which largely are the reasons for the depressed market. Despite years of experience of what has been happening we find on this occasion the Government bringing down a Bill which will do little, if anything, towards removing that collusion or the operation of those pies. A few years ago the Japanese admitted clearly that they worked in pies. Who can blame them? Noone can blame them. No doubt they operate under instructions from their Government that they have only a certain amount of cash with which to purchase wool. They have to spend that money as well as they possibly can. No doubt the same applies to other buyers. As I said earlier, no-one can blame them for doing this, but we certainly can blame this Austraiian Government for allowing the situation to continue for so long. 
I realise that we cannot expect the reserve price plan to be the complete answer to buyer control. I suggest that any reserve plan introduced to operate in favour of the grower, or at least to bring him a reasonable and proper return, must include provisions whereby buyer collusion will be difficult to pursue. Unfortunately this Bill makes no such provision. I do not think we can achieve that desirable situation - it is desirable, in my view at any rate - while the seller, who incidentally need not be a grower but can be a broker, who can offer wool for sale by auction and accept a price below the reserve price, who can buy wool by private treaty at a sum well below the reserve price and who can go into the auction and sell below the reserve price and still make a profit. The Commission, as I read the Bill, will have no power to stop him doing it. 
Another defect in this Bill is that it refers to a reserve price but fails to give an answer to this very important question being asked by the wool grower: 'What price can I expect to receive?'. This surely must be the main question being asked by wool growers. They want to know the minimum price they can expect to receive and whether it will give them some profit over their cost of production. In this respect I was rather interested in what the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  said during an Appropriation debate in  1964.  He said that the Country Party policy was one which favoured the auction system with a floor price that had been approved by the wool growers at a referendum. It would seem that the policy of the Country Party has changed. Whilst it now favours a reserve price scheme it does not suggest that such a scheme should be supported by a referendum of wool growers or that it should state what the minimum price should be. So in  1964  the growers, according to Country Party policy, were entitled to these things, but today they have been cast aside and receive no thought. As I said at the beginning, the best that can be expected from the proposals of the Government which is now before the House is that the decline in wool prices may become steady or perhaps may be even halted at the existing levels, but it gives no cause to expect any increase. Surely this is not sufficient. Practically all our primary industries have from time to time enjoyed protection of stability and established prices by either State or Federal legislation, or both. I do not think anyone would deny that those industries and the people associated with them have gained a considerable benefit from that legislation. Unfortunately some of those industries today are in some difficulties and, in fact, are facing very serious problems. But J would suggest that had the market protection not been available to them their difficulties would have come very much sooner and would have been much more serious at this time. 1 point out that it was a Labor Government which during the Second World War and the postwar years introduced 3 of those very important marketing schemes for the primary industries. In 1945 Labor introduced the Joint Organisation, which 1 referred to earlier as being the first worthwhile attempt to organise the marketing of wool in Australia. In 1947 Labor brought in the dairy industry stabilisation scheme, which gave a guaranteed price for 5 years. In 1948 Labor introduced wheat stabilisation, again with a guaranteed price. I do not think there is any need for me to go on and explain the benefit that the wheat industry and the people associated with it derived from that legislation. I have referred to those pieces of legislation which Labor brought down during its short term of office because they must make it clear that as far as the Labor Party is concerned the wool industry, which is one of our most important industries, should again have organised marketing facilities at its disposal of a kind which will give it the security it deserves. 
Not only are the wool growers suffering from the lack of proper marketing methods, but all Australia is suffering from a loss of export revenue. I remember reading an article some 5 or 6 years ago which pointed out that the lack of marketing facilities with Commonwealth backing had cost Australia some  1,000m. So the cost to Australia now because we do not have proper marketing facilities is well over $2,000m. Certainly that sort of money cannot be given up by Australia, and is well worth chasing. I should not think there would be any argument about our capabilities to produce much more wool. Our sheep numbers and our wool production can and would increase considerably, particularly with the present wheat situation. 
The Government has asked the wheat industry to diversify. What are the majority of wheat growers to diversify into if it is not into wool? But in the present situation we would simply finish up with much more wool but with less money. The increased production of wool would bring no benefit to either the farmers or Australia. What is the wheat grower expected to do? Is he expected to grow more sheep and produce more wool when he can see no surety or any possibility of receiving a minimum price? Can he go into wool unless he has some surety that he will at least get some reasonable return for his wool that will show him a reasonable profit? One would have thought that the Government would have been concerned about this situation and would have expressed some positive idea on what the situation would be in the future, and given the growers some assurances. The wool grower gambles not only on the price that he will receive but also on climatic conditions, drought, fire and floods. After he has been able to get through those, surely he should not also be called upon to take this further risk of having to place his produce on the market when he is likely to receive very little for it. I would like to think that the proposal that we have before us at present will give him that security. I would be very happy if I was able to stand here and be quite certain that the wool grower would receive from this Bill the security that we would like him to receive. But, unfortunately, there is nothing in the proposal to suggest that. 
The fact is - this cannot be denied; it has been proved too often in the past and nothing has happened to alter it - that the wool grower is being denied, and in fact is being cheated out of, a fair go on the auction floor by the collusion amongst the wool buyers. Under this Bill the wool buyers will still determine what the price will be because there will be no reason for any competition. As I see the Bill anyway, the wool will be available and if they do not bid today they can be pretty sure that the reserve price will be lower tomorrow As a matter of fact, the way the Bill reads, it looks as though if they do not bid this morning the price will be brought down this afternoon. So, there does not seem to be any need for them to compete. As we know the method of collusion, the system is that they all partake in the lots that are bought and therefore they have no reason to compete with each other. 
Even if the Commission is successful in holding the existing price, it still will be too low to allow a reasonable margin of profit over the cost of production. Of course, the cost of production will not decrease or even remain at the same level It will increase. In this regard also the Government has done absolutely nothing to try to rectify the situation. We hear honourable members on the Government side demanding that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  or the appropriate Minister take action to deny workers their just wage entitlements. We hear them calling for longer working hours. But we never hear them - not even the Country Party members - asking for any form of price control. The lack of any control of prices enables certain industries to increase their prices, whether or not an increase is warranted. This is crippling many rural industries in relation to production costs. 
It is idle for honourable members opposite to suggest that the freezing of wages will control prices. If they cast their minds back about 17 years, they will recall that at that time wages were pegged for a period of about 12 months. What happened then? When it was decided that wages should be re-examined the arbitration court decided, in its wisdom, after an examination of the matter, that the basic wage should be increased by 1 a week to make up for the price increases that had occurred during the time of the wage freeze. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett) -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
by leave - Very briefly I want to refer to the report which has been presented to the House by the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. I believe that contrary to what was said by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  the work of this Committee and the report that was presented provide a basis for a very sound approach by the 
Government, by the Department of Civil Aviation, by other Commonwealth instrumentalities and in particular by State instrumentalities to this very vexed question of excessive aircraft noise. It would be quite wrong for the impression to arise from the comments that were made about the report by the honourable member for Newcastle that there had been shortcomings in the work of the Committee. 1 would agree with him that the terms of reference limited the activities of the Committee in some directions, but I must emphasise that the intention of the Government was quite clear when the terms of reference were originally presented to this House. The terms of reference were debated on a previous occasion when the interim report of the Committee was presented to the Parliament. They were also discussed when the Committee was reappointed when the new Parliament came into existence. On that occasion, it was quite clearly stated by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in this place, that the purpose of the Committee was to seek certain information and to make a recommendation to this House. This has been done, and it has been done in a manner that 1 believe completely accords with the objectives that were in mind. It is a basis not only for appropriate action by the authorities concerned but also for future work and future action of a technical nature in this important field of aircraft noise. 
I commend the  Chairman  and members of the Committee for the effective approach that they have made to this matter. In particular I refer to the assistance given by specialist officers who have been untiring in their efforts to find the most effective solution possible to this problem. I think that perhaps the most significant of the recommendations of the Committee is the first recomemndation referred to earlier in this discussion. It indicates quite clearly that there is a means of establishing a positive approach to the assessment of aircraft noise. I refer to the recommmendation that provision should be made of a permanent means of assessing aircraft noise and of monitoring aircraft noise. This should be understood quite clearly by all those concerned including airline operators and pilots who are responsible for operations at air fields. Undoubtedly this provision will apply in the first place to those airports which have the greatest degree of aircraft noise, that is, where it is a major problem. This would apply to Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane and, to a lesser extent, Perth. 
Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport is the major problem. The honourable member for Newcastle has referred to this fact. But he went on to say that the Government had not given power to the Committee to seek and to recommend sites for new airports. This was very clearly a matter of policy. It was not a matter within the scope of the Committee under its terms of reference. The reason why it was not in the terms of reference can be quite positively identified. The reason without doubt simply is that this is an administrative matter for the Department of Civil Aviation and for the Government. The evidence taken by and the recommendations of the Select Committee will play an important part in putting useful data into the hands of the proper authorities responsible for dealing with the matter of selecting and recommending sites for new airports. H we wish, the term 'alternate' sites may be used. It can be recognised that an alternate site for the airport for Sydney is a matter of great importance that encompasses many more considerations than noise alone. It would be quite wrong for us merely to consider aspects of noise and nothing else in the question of siting a future airport for the City of Sydney. There are commercial considerations. This is not something that can be taken merely as the only basis for decision. It must be recognised that although the problem of noise is of tremendous significance, an acknowledgement of that fact alone does not set a basis for selection of a new airport site. If a site can be located which will provide the maximum possible avoidance of noise, and provided all other requirements - in particular navigational requirements - can be met satisfactorily, that would be the place to put an airport of the future for any major city of Australia such as Sydney. 
I am sure that the approach to this responsibility will be a constructive one. As I said a moment ago, the responsible authorities will be assisted in their task by the results achieved as a consequence of the work of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. I believe that the report presented is an excellent one. I believe that it has gone to the extreme limits possible, that it sets a remarkable technical basis and provides a very useful summary of the many aspects of this very vexed question. I believe that the House, when it has had an opportunity to study the report fully, will regard it as a unique report and as a consequence of very effective work by one of the first select committees appointed by the House of Representatives in recent years to deal with an important public matter. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether he recalls the statement to the House earlier this week by the honourable member for Lalor on the proposed system of levies for some agricultural products to be introduced by Britain when the honourable member said: 
The Minister for Trade and Industry is again the harbinger of bad news . . . The Minister for Trade and Industry has supervised the drift of Australia into this situation. 
Is this a further instance of the irresponsible approach to the nation's problems by a negative Opposition shadow Minister? I further ask: What does the Minister think of farming prospects in northern Victoria? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the proposal outlined by him in his policy speech at the time of the recent Senate election for the provision of long term loans for primary producers who are in difficulties but whose cases are. not appropriate for recourse to rural reconstruction schemes operated through State government agencies. Has any progress been made towards the implementation of the proposed scheme of rural loan insurance to assist hard pressed primary producers who cannot obtain long term bank accommodation? 
 I refer the Minister for Primary Industry to the proposed Commonwealth dairy reconstruction scheme and ask: What progress has been made towards the finalisation , of arrangements between the Commonwealth and the New South Wales Government concerning this important project? When is it expected that New South Wales farmers will be able to participate in the scheme? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Speaker.  I ask: With the extensive extensions to Parliament House now taking place on the Senate side of the building will there be additional accommodation for members to perform their parliamentary duties and will additional services be available to assist them in those duties? 
The action of the Government in reducing expenditure by $75.5m for the 1970-71 financial year is a responsible move against inflation. It is timely and positive action which has already received the wide support of the general community of this nation. In the face of a totally ineffective attack this afternoon in this Parliament the Government has withstood the effort of the Opposition to support a censure motion. The Opposition has failed to put forward any effective alternative to the Government's proposals. It has moved a no confidence motion but, judged from any constructive angle, it has failed miserably. It has advanced a great deal of superficial comment but has not dealt with the present day cost-price spiral. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  chose a course which produced nothing constructive and did not rebut the magnificent explanation of the position given, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  a little earlier in this debate. 
I want to refer to the Prime Minister's statement to the nation on 29th January, because it is pertinent to the debate in which we are engaged. In that statement the Prime Minister pointed out, firstly, that there had been a rise of 1.9 per cent in the consumer price index during the last 3 months of 1970. the largest rise for .14 years. Secondly, he pointed out the likely effects on the economy of the Arbitration Commission's award of a 6 per cent increase in wages and salaries, a much greater increase than, anyone had thought possible. That was a frank statement. It was not a case of embellishing the facts or ignoring them. The Prime Minister was being realistic. Yet today we have listened to a tirade which would suggest otherwise. On that occasion the Prime Minister also said: 
We therefore believe our first line of attack should be to ensure noi only a restraint on Government expenditure but a reduction in Government expenditure this financial year. 
He went on to say: 
We are now working out reductions in the Government's budgeted expenditure in other directions. Implementing these reductions will be uncomfortable. Australians will not get as much as they had hoped to get in the way of new public amenities of various kinds. But the reductions are necessary. 
On Tuesday last in this House the Prime Minister announced the Government's decisions and indicated in a very positive and clear fashion exactly what the conclusions were that had been reached after very careful study of the position by the Government. He outlined cuts in Government expenditure and referred directly to the circumstances that had arisen since the Budget last August. The reductions in expenditure have been realistic. 1 am sure that no-one can really challenge them. Certainly they have not been effectively challenged in this debate. We see defence spending cut by $21. 5m out of a total of $l,149.lm, which is a realistic approach. The second largest cut is in capital works, the advance of capital to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. This cut is $10m out of a total of $252m in that sector. Again that is a reasonable approach. If we follow through the 8 items in which cuts have been announced we see a very responsible approach. Yet there has been moved today a censure motion. 
A motion of censure is a very serious step for an Opposition to take. The grounds proposed were certainly not of great substance. They evaded the main issue and put to the House that the Government had failed to report to the Parliament and had not given details of its monetary, fiscal, constitutional and industrial policies for curbing inflation. What utter rot! Honourable members will recall the very responsible statements by the Government in the last session of this Parliament and the equally responsible statements made by the Prime Minister to the nation since that time. Then, on the very first day of the sitting of this House we had the Prime Minister's announcement of the Government's decisions. There is no substance whatever in what has been advanced by die Opposition. It has been made clear that these reductions in expenditure have been made across a wide range of Commonwealth departments. But they do not include any reduction in payments lo the States. The Government has endeavoured to avoid reducing expenditure on essential developmental activities. 
The question one might well ask is: What would the Opposition have done if the responsibility had been imposed on it as a government? One can only guess. We certainly have not been told by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He dealt at length with a number of questions, including constitutional reform. He talked glibly of stop-go measures by the Government. He ignored the facts of the situation. He failed to acknowledge the present day relationship of the Australian economy with that of other countries on whom we depend for trade, balance of payments and, in short, our economic stability. Few Opposition speakers have advanced any justification for their motion of censure. Notable for his verbosity was the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who was talking like a thrashing machine before the Prime Minister spoke - as he usually does. What of his credibility as a spokesman on primary industry for the Opposition? He spent most of his time telling the House of the problems of the farmer. He did not propose his solution to those problems. He said a lot about the need for changing the Constitution. He performed as a true puppet of his leader, clothed to put one side of the Australian Labor Party's double headed coin. Let us recall his somersault at the time of the Senate election campaign. Out he came, loud voiced, to the country - not the city - and said: "l am opposed to the 35-hour week'. He said: 'The farmers cannot stand it'. He made his plea just as the last session of this House ended before the Senate election campaign but I doubt, from recollection, that he said it in this House. 
Tonight the honourable member for Dawson called for a stop and a control of the forces of galloping inflation. Did he forget that his leader, at the time of the Prime Minister's statement on 29th January, accused the Government of propping up industry? A very lengthy reference to tariffs was made by the Leader of the Opposition. He went further and said: 'We are propping up unprofitable industries and making big handouts to farmers'. Yet a few moments ago the honourable member for Fremantle claimed that the Prime Minister had not mentioned the problems of the farming community. What the Prime Minister did was to tali about the interests of the whole nation, of every section of the community, and this certainly included the farming community. The Leader of the Opposition made great play of what he called 'on again off again' policies. He failed to acknowledge the differences between the problems of 1961, for example, and those of 1971. He failed to recognise the cost of  Mr Hawke. 
We all recall that in 1961 the economy was in difficulties but from a different cause. At that time our overseas reserves had declined to a dangerous level. Today our overseas reserves are buoyant. In simple language, the major problem is the effect of a cost push pressure. Last year the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission awarded a 3 per cent rise and the overall rise turned out to be about 9 per cent. This year the Commission has given a 6 per cent rise and unless action of the kind now being taken by the Government is implemented the ultimate effect could be to the order of 12 per cent. We just cannot stand rises of this kind and their effect on prices. What of the sections of the community that cannot pass on cost rises - the farmer, the pensioner and those on superannuation? Like all sections of the community who have a reasonable attitude to the problems of inflation they expect this Government to take action. They support the move for restraint undoubtedly. They do not want to lose standards of living brought about by a persistent Government determined to look after the interests of the whole nation and see in its place a lowering of living standards through wild inflation. I hope the honourable member for Fremantle will remember this when he looks through the speech he made just a moment ago. 
A major effort is being made to turn down Government spending during the next 4 months. This is a responsible start. It is no', the only thing the Government must and, I believe, will do nor is it the only thing the people of this nation, expect from a stable government. Could we have done more? The test in this debate is, of course, to sift through all the proposals put forward. We find that nothing has been offered as an alternative to deal with the immediate problem. There has been a lot said about principles and constitutional problems and the like. The honourable member for Fremantle proposed 4 solutions. ' First of all he wants to whittle away almost completely our immigration programme. Of course, we have known that this has been a section of the Labor Party policy for a long time. It would like to get its hands if it had the opportunity on that section of government expenditure that flows in the direction, of immigration and put it into other fields of expenditure. But if this were to be implemented what would be the position within a matter of 3 years? We would find that our nation was losing the growth rate that is absolutely essential for security and developmental reasons. The approach of the Government, however, to reduce the immigration intake by about 10,000 people is a reasonable approach and is, I believe, the kind of action that any responsible government would want to take. 1 would refer the honourable member for Fremantle, when he speaks of policies that could be implemented and says that wage restraints would not achieve results, to the experience of his political bedfellow, the now Leader of the Opposition in the United Kingdom, Harold Wilson. Just have a look at his record of trying to do the very things the honourable member for Fremantle has advocated this evening and we see a dismal failure indeed. Australia cannot live in isolation. We would face ruin tomorrow if we cut ourselves off from world trade and world financial links. Yet we have managed in the face of great difficulties to hold the nation on a reasonable level of stability. Of course, there are problems in many sectors. We see them in primary industry, with its disastrous losses of markets and - what is worse - losses of profitable markets. We see industrial unrest and other major disabilities. Yet compared with other countries our consumer price index shows a rise up until now of only 3 per cent whilst the United States, for example, faced a rise of 6 per cent to 7 per cent. In Japan there is an increase in wages of 18 per cent per annum. In the United Kingdom there is a 13 per cent rise and it is getting worse. New Zealand has had a 20 per cent rise in costs and imposed a freeze all round and it is very doubtful indeed whether this measure will work. 
We have maintained confidence in this country through responsible government. Once again it is to the Government's great credit that it is showing its capacity to face up to the difficulties not in a sense of panic or scare tactics but in a responsible way; not too timidly but positively and objectively. The motion before the House is without justification and, despite what we have heard this evening from the Opposition, there is no doubt that the nation will support the Government and that this House will throw out very solidly the proposition put to it by the Opposition. I oppose the motion. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question about the establishment some time ago of an interdepartmental committee to study decentralisation. Has the committee completed its work and reported to the Government? If so, will a statement be made of the result of the committee's investigation? Having regard to the importance of decentralisation when considering the curtailment of government spending will the Government do everything possible to ensure that special attention is paid to decentralisation so as to avoid as far as possible adverse effects on country areas already hard hit by economic difficulties confronting rural industry? 
I suggest to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that in the interests of the electors of Nambucca, which is in my electorate of Cowper, he should seriously consider withdrawing his amendment. He should do so on the ground, as I mentioned earlier in this House, that there has not been a detailed investigation into the flood mitigation possibilities on the Nambucca River. It is true that discussions of a very preliminary nature did take place between State Government authorities and the shire council. In those discussions reference was made to the problem of any cost implication as far as ratepayers are concerned. As I understand it, the view was expressed by the council that it did not wish to become involved in a scheme if it would place a burden upon its ratepayers. It reasoned that there is no major flood problem on the Nambucca River. There is no inundation of property or other effects as is the case on other rivers. Notwithstanding this, however, because of river bank erosion and evidence which justified certain conservation work, it was thought fit that further investigations should be made by the New South Wales departments concerned, mainly, of course, the Department of Conservation. 1 understand that these investigations will be carried out. 
It would be quite wrong for us arbitrarily and without authority to include the Nambucca River in a programme of flood mitigation works by supporting the amendment because, firstly, there is no estimate of the cost of the proposal and, secondly, there is no firm arrangement between the council and the New South Wales Government. In other words, we would be usurping their rights if in this Parliament we took action along the lines suggested by the honourable member for Dawson. Another factor to be taken into account is the position of the adjoining shire of Bellingen in respect of the Bellingen River flood mitigation proposal which will involve a total expenditure of $810,000. The Bellingen shire council has, by resolution, decided thai it docs not wish to participate in the scheme, and the question of how this matter will be disposed of arises. 
I believe that it would be quite wrong to support the amendment which simply highlights the political manoeuvring that has been attempted this evening by the Opposition in relation to this matter. The Opposition has failed to recognise the fundamental approach originally made with local government, through the proper processes of local government, by numerous conferences. Officers who were appointed to deal with these matters drew up firm proposals with estimates of costs properly assessed and based upon calculations made as a result of engineering surveys and so forth. There was no mystery about the original proposals. They did not emanate merely from some political discussion. They came from a basie approach contained in what was known, at the time, as the Salter report. This report was prepared by a most worthy local government clerk, with the assistance of all the local governments interested in this matter.  His  work was so outstanding that he was subsequently recognised in an Honours List. If my memory serves me correctly, he was awarded an M.B.E. chiefly because of his efforts in this field.  Mr Salter  passed on a couple  oi  years ago. He has not been mentioned in this debate. I mention him now because his report is so relevant to what we are now discussing, namely, a proposal that we should initiate in this Parliament something that involves local and State governments, when in fact, the move should undoubtedly come from them initially. I suggest, in all seriousness, to the honourable member for Dawson that in the interests of the people he, apparently falsely, believes he wants to help, he should withdraw his amendment. 
The measure before the House is of vital importance to the river valleys of the New South Wales coast. Last year the Government announced its intention to provide by way of grant $9m from the projected SI 00m water resources fund. I believe that the. decision was a positive one, a correct one, and that it accorded with the requirements of the present stage of development of flood mitigation works in this part of Australia. The history of flood mitigation is one of ingenuity and local enterprise. Farmers and local government worked in close co-operation and ultimately, after many years of endeavour, gained government co-operation to provide the ways and means of giving effect to flood mitigation measures of a practical nature. 
In order to understand flood mitigation it is necessary for an assessment to be made of the real meaning of the word 'mitigation' in the context in which we find it related to these works on coastal rivers. As the term implies, it is to mitigate the effect of floods. The ultimate objective, of course, is flood prevention. Many honourable members have spoken in this House and in State parliaments over many years of the desirability of effective flood prevention. I know that for very many years a former honourable member for Cowper,  Sir Earle  Page, took up much of the time of this House espousing the objectives of flood control. 
Of course he was not the only early champion of the advocacy for works of this kind. There were many others, in the Slate field and in local government, lt was somewhat amusing to hear the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  talking this afternoon about a mere event in 1964 and of the efforts of a former honourable member for Cowper which, when analysed and assessed, really did not contribute very much to this cause at all. 
Of course, the honourable member who interjects was not here, nor does he know the long history of rejection of any request for flood mitigation funds at the Federal level from a previous government, and particularly the Chifley Government which, during the floods of the 1940s, rejected out of hand anygestion that Commonwealth funds should be used in this direction. I hope that '.he Opposition will do its own research to discover exactly who did the real job of work in this matter of flood mitigation. 
It will be found very clearly that this Government, and this Government alone, at Federal level moved to provide funds by way of grant for flood mitigation purposes. So we find a programme to the extent of $26m in the first place being undertaken and effectively carried through to conclusion recently. This measure is tq provide a contribution of $9m towards a further programme which will cost S22m for rivers in New South Wales. Engineering, which is a vital part of this, may be defined as the science of directing nature's forces and resources far the use of mankind. I believe that this sums up in a few words exactly what is being done today. The flood mitigation methods include levies, bank protection, drainage and retaining walls. These measures are designed to cope with the various categories of flood frequency and the various effects of serious floods, average floods and nuisance floods. 
It is in this regard that the real effects and the material benefits that flow from flood mitigation works are to be found, lt has been suggested that there should be detailed cost benefits and that those should be on a broad basis. The honourable member for Dawson asked that this be done. 1 am glad that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  proposes to provide further information in this way. But I would point out that there' are human factors to be taken into consideration. There are many things in connection with the effects of floods whose actual value is very hard to establish. I refer to the disaster that befalls towns which are inundated. It is passible to value the loss of fixed assets  in homes and furniture, but not the intangibles such as the inconvenience caused, the loss of man hours in so many directions and the effect on education when children are not able to attend school. I could run through a whole host of things. It was put to me on one occasion that if one could establish a different cost factor when water was I ft deep in an average home as against the cost factor when the water was 5 ft deep, then one would be a pretty good economist with some kind of formula which so far it has not been found necessary 10 develop in this country. 1 say quite objectively that if we go too far on the question of cost benefits and try to analyse all these things in' minute detail many projects of this kind for' the good of the community would never 'be undertaken. We would be overwhelmed by all sorts of irrelevant details. Fortunately, the Government of New South Wales and the Federal Government in co-operation with local government in New South Wales have seen to it that an objective approach is made in this matter. I am sure that the example that has been so well established there will stand for all time as' a monument to what can be done to curb nature when it runs riot in this way and occasions great loss in the community. . . 
Reference has been made to what can be learned from overseas study.  I  believe that we have set the pace on the Coastal rivers of New South Wales. We have been' able to do, with the limited resources that this nation can call upon, much more than one finds in many overseas countries Where' floods do occur. I have compared cost factors in the United States with those of the schemes  that are now under way in Australia and I find that we are able to give a very much better result in terms of objective results than many of the major schemes in the United States. This is something that I hope the Opposition will also look at in a little more detail because before I conclude 1 want to deal with the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson. However, in the first place let us recognise exactly what these funds are intended to da. They are intended to supplement funds of an equal amount from the State Government, together with a contribution by local government - in the case of the northern rivers of New South Wales of $1 for every 4 of government, State and Commonwealth, funds provided and in the case of the Hunter River a slightly more liberal provision. This is an established basis upon which the works have been going forward since 1964. 
The reason for this is that all the interested parties met and determined that this was their view as to the procedure that should be followed. Of course, it encompassed the arrangement that local administration oversighted by State authorities would be the basis of the means of carrying out this work. This has set an example to Australia and, for that matter, to overseas projects, where local administration has a major responsibility, where on the spot action can be taken, where on the spot engineering can be applied and where in fact techniques of the work done along the rivers can be a local approach oversighted by State authorities. This has enabled a great deal te be achieved without too much cumbersome red tape in a practical way in the interests of the localities concerned in the first place and of the State and the nation. This, 1 believe, is a very good example, first of all, of a degree of self help and, secondly, of the backing of worthy projects with Government funds. 
In the current programme, however, we find a considerable amount of conservation work being proposed for the upper reaches of some of the rivers. I refer in particular to the Clarence, the Macleay and, of course, the Hunter rivers. In the case of the Richmond River there is not so much upstream work involved. It it in this regard that a cost problem does arise and I believe that as the programme proceeds there is justification for some review to be made of the ratio of local funds to Government funds. This is for the reason that the nature of the upstream work in conservation measures is not so directly related to improvements upon the fertile river flats or to the benefit of the adjacent urban areas. In these instances, of course, some local contribution is obviously justified, but to the extent that contribution becomes a burden upon ratepayers there is a case which, I believe, should be looked at so far as the weight of that burden is concerned. I know that submissions in that regard will be made to the New South Wales Government and, no doubt, will in turn be referred to this Government for consideration. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson, however, proposes an entirely different approach. He has completely mixed up flood mitigation with flood relief and on the face of it he has proposed an amendment which is quite out of keeping with the objects of the Bill before the House. Perhaps being a Queenslander he is not aware of what happens in some States, and I refer in particular to New South Wales. We already have a well established approach in the matter of flood relief and flood restoration quite distinct from flood mitigation. In the first place, when a disaster occurs - and we have had experience of this in the last few weeks - the civil defence organisation goes into action. It has at its disposal certain facilities. It is able to call upon the Commonwealth to give assistance through the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army. This precedent is well established and has operated for a long period. This is to deal with immediate on the spot problems but then, of course, the question of the cost of restoration works, first of all so far as personal loss is concerned, follows a pattern established in the 1950s and has nothing whatever to do with flood mitigation. 
The object of the projects which this Bill makes possible is to minimise the loss so there will not be such a great call upon resources of flood relief. Farmers, business people and householders all suffer when a flood occurs and then there are precise measures to afford relief to them. In cases of extreme hardship grants are made. In other instances long term low interest loans are made to assist those people. This is currently being done in the floods now occurring and having recently occurred in so much of New South Wales. The funds for this purpose are made available - by precedent - on a $1 for 1 basis by the 2 governments, State and Federal. There is no suggestion of a departure from that scheme and it is working very well indeed. With regard to the restoration of such things as roads, bridges and public services the State, using funds provided on this $1 for $1 basis, makes available grants to local authorities, sometimes up to 100 per cent, to enable them to undertake the restoration work. In the north west of New South Wales such arrangements have been made at this moment and are being carried into effect. 
So there is absolutely no justification for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson so far as New South Wales is concerned but if he wants to put forward a proposition of this kind for other States then he does not have to come into this Parliament to do so. He has to persuade the Stale governments to participate in what is already - by precedent - available through the policies of this Government. There is no necessity for any improvement unless it be to find more funds because I think it must be recognised that there is always an enormous cost involved in flood restoration. There is always pressure to find enough funds to be provided on the basis I have described. I am satisfied, and I am sure most members of this House must also be well satisfied, that this Government is playing its part and on that basis will continue to play its part in the most effective way possible to meet flood damage and flood effects. Then, of course, there was reference to one river not mentioned in the Schedule to the Bill. The Bill refers to a number of rivers in New South Wales and several of them are in my electorate. The rivers are the Tweed, Richmond, Bellinger, Clarence, Macleay, Hastings, Manning, Hunter, Hawkesbury, Shoalhaven and Moruya. 
Suddenly the honourable member for Dawson discovers that he has had some request for the inclusion of the Nambucca River, in my electorate, in this measure. The Nambucca Shire Council, a very active and enthusiastic local council, long ago approached the New South Wales Government to ascertain whether the 
Nambucca River could be included in this scheme. In due course representatives of the New South Wales departments concerned, that is, the Public Works Department and the Conservation Department, made an investigation particularly of erosion and undertook discussions , with the Shire Council. The Shire Council ultimately expressed the view that participation in this scheme was not justified so far as the ratepayers of that shire were concerned. I believe that it made the right decision, because there is not a flood plain on the Nambucca; there is not flooding of homes and a loss of pasture: there is not damage of the kind that is sustained on other rivers. The position there is quite different from what we see on the other rivers adjoining the Nambucca. 
The honourable member for Dawson advocates that cost benefit analyses should be carried out. He surely cannot deny a cost benefit analysis in regard to the Nambucca. If after investigation it is found that there is justification for the inclusion of the Nambucca in the scheme I, and I am sure others, will be only too ready and willing to say that it should be done. I point that out in the interests of the people concerned and particularly the ratepayers and the scheme in general, and I say to the honourable member for Dawson that he should have a second thought about it. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry seen a statement attributed to the honourable member for Riverina that foodstuffs, including cheese and canned meat, of unknown and doubtful hygienic standard are flooding into Australia, and further that increasing quantities of canned meat from areas affected by foot and mouth disease are appearing in supermarkets? I ask the Minister: Is this statement a gross reflection upon Australia's trade arrangements and stringent quarantine control measures? 
Questions should not contain - 
statements of facts or names of persons unless they are strictly necessary to render the question intelligible and can be authenticated; 
I would ask you to ask the honourable member to authenticate his statement. 
I oppose the motion. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has thrown out the challenge that he would expect back benchers on both sides of the House to support strongly the proposition that the time permitted for questions without notice should be extended. As a back bencher, I wanted to make it perfectly clear that I do not support the proposition. In the time at my disposal, I want to comment in some detail on what has been put to the House by the seconder of the motion, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  He has seconded this motion not to support the requirements of honourable members of this House, not with a consideration of what might benefit honourable members, but purely and deliberately for political purposes. It is patently clear that this was done for political purposes. The honourable member should reflect on the approach adopted towards this House by the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Although the Prime Minister has not occupied his office for very long, matters of great import have arisen with which the House has had to deal. But, of course, the Prime Minister would want to see to it that the programme of business of the House was as reasonable as possible. I instance to honourable members today's business paper. A member of the Opposition is proposing a private member's Bill. It is the first move of this kind for a very long time. Would it have been fair to impinge upon the time available to this honourable gentleman to present his proposed private member's Bill by extending the period for question time? Of course it would not. There are other considerations. Quite unfair comparisons have been made in relation to question time traditions followed in this House. These unfair comparisons have been presented in such a fashion as to reflect upon the Prime Minister personally. This is quite wrong. Let me make a further comparison. In common with many honourable members, I was a member of this House at the time of Prime Minister Menzies. It was accepted very definitely that he had an eye to the clock and that 45 minutes after the meeting of the House he would always request that further questions be placed on notice. 
Menzies was in office and I can recollect him- 
The Commonwealth Government must exercise its constitutional responsibility to manage the financial affairs of the nation. It is critically important that this responsibility be examined in a debate on CommonwealthState financial relations. However it is equally important that the Government in office, through its announced policies and continuing pronouncements in the light of circumstances and events, take into  account not only day to day events but also the requests of State Governments and semi-State government instrumentalities. This, I believe, is done faithfully and well by this Government. 
The field of financial management and financial operations is wide and cumbersome. What has been proposed this afternoon as the subject of debate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has offered nothing new and certainly nothing constructive or progressive. We have had merely a rehash of statements made from time to time by the Leader of the Opposition and other members of his Party on the very complex questions which arise. But I believe that the real purpose of the Opposition's move this afternoon was to try to draw a red herring across the trail when a very responsible approach to economic mailers was evidenced yesterday at a meeting between the State Premiers and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The announcements Sowing from yesterday's meeting showed  a  very proper approach in a situation of over-inflation. These included a decision to assist the States to the extent of $46. Sm in reducing the deficits which they face, and at the same time taking into account the States' conscious decision to reduce their expenditure by S60m as a contribution towards the curbing of inflation. This, of course, accords with this Government's decision a few weeks ago to cut Commonwealth expenditure by S"5m. This, I believe, highlights the effectiveness of the courageous approach by the Commonwealth towards its financial relations with the States at this time. Of course, nothing has been said of this by members of the Opposition. On the other hand, they have been critical without recognition of where the responsibility to deal with inflationary tendencies lies. 
I want to draw particular attention to the success of the  management  of the economy since the indications of November-December last of inflationary tendencies that were dangerous. I believe that the results already evident show clearly that a proper approach is being made in a manner that is not prejudicing progress and development and that takes into account the responsibilities that all governments face because of the plight of the rural industries and of many of our underprivileged citizens. I refer, of course, to those who depend on social service benefits. In all of these fields emphasis has not been placed on priority of need. That is practical and yet not one word has been said about this by members of the Opposition this afternoon. In fact, although the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  used the words 'The lack of machinery for Government consultation and public information on Commonwealth, State and regional finances and functions,' he did not really deal with any of the machinery matters that are involved. He failed to recognise the way in which, in the last 2 or 3 years, there has been a considerable stepping up of consultation. There have been more meetings of the Premiers. There have, of course, been the traditional regular meetings but there have been additional meetings. This was not mentioned. Surely this is evidence of the Government's approach to what is required at this time. 
Then the Leader of the Opposition went on to talk of the problems of local government, education and national development He even advocated the creation of an Australian hospitals commission. He made all sorts of centralist proposals that would really rob the States of their sovereign rights, but at the same time he failed to acknowledge that there is currently, and has been for a considerable time, very extensive consultation between the States and the Commonwealth. Let me refer lo a dozen or so instrumentalities that do a fine job in this regard. There are the Australian Forestry Council, the Australian Minerals Council, the Australian Water Resources Council, the Australian Fisheries Council, the Australian Agricultural Council, the Australian Council for Aboriginal Affairs, the Australian Transport Advisory Council, child and social welfare committees, the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General and the Australian Education Council. The appropriate Federal Minister attends the meetings of that Council only on the invitation of the States. There is also the Health Ministers Conference. There are other ad hoc committees of various kinds. Whenever these Councils meet the States have (he privilege of expressing their views  uninhibitedly,  and they do so. There are useful and proper discussions. Surely this is evidence that the machinery between the States and the Commonwealth is really working. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  claimed that the last meeting of the Premiers had resulted in a rejection of a Treasury recommendation. I challenge the honourable member for Adelaide to prove his claim in this House. Certainly he failed to acknowledge that the official statements following that meeting indicated that a further meeting would be held at which firm decisions would be made. This meeting took place yesterday and those firm decisions were made and announced. 
The honourable member for Adelaide asks: What happened in the meantime?' What happened was exactly what it was intended would happen. All of the facts were properly studied, proper time was taken to analyse the financial position as it was developing for the remainder of this financial year and proper decisions were made based upon the facts so assembled and analysed. 
The States, of course, were able to proceed with what they had indicated they would do, to seek ways to halt inflation and curb inflationary tendencies. In this short debate there is limited time to cover all the matters one would like to cover but I do want to refer very hurriedly to what has been done for primary industry in this financial year. The wheat industry has been assisted with loan funds to the tune of $178m. Not all of it has been used because of the way in which the payments were made. The wool industry received assistance to the value of $30m and $100m was allocated for rural reconstruction. A total of $100m is being spent on water resources. All of this was done with proper regard to State interests and their relationship to national expenditure so that it would not intrude too heavily upon the cost pressures of this nation at a time when those cost pressures represent the real enemy of the economy. I believe the Government's approach has been responsible and that there is no basis for the claims that have been advanced by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-I rise to support the Bill. It is a measure of great significance to the pig industry in Australia. The purpose of the Bill was explained to the House at the time of its introduction. It will enable the creation of a fund for specific research to assist the pig industry. Basically it will enable the Government to make available a matching grant of about $150,000 to $160,000 to create a fund in the vicinity of $300,000 a year for research purposes. This amount is appropriate because of the growing importance of the pig industry. In the past 16 years the scope of the industry has practically doubled. The total number of pigs has increased from 1 million in 1953 to about 2.3 million at the present time. The annual turnoff of pigs in Australia nets about $100m. This is a very considerable sum of money and is of great importance, particularly in this period of lower returns in farm income. 
One of the significant considerations is the fact that the pig industry is a very widespread industry. It is not just a single industry upon which people depend directly. It sustains a very large number of mixed farm enterprises. By that I mean that it is a very important ingredient in the total composition of a mixed farm. This is applicable to the dairy industry, the grain industry and many other smaller industries where pigs are kept as a sideline. I want to express the hope that in the work undertaken particular emphasis will be placed upon the problems confronting the smaller farmer, in the category of those who perhaps have a range of pig breeding based on 10 or 15 sows. Of course there are many enterprises that run piggeries of up to several hundred sows, even to the order of 1,000 breeding sows. 
The problems which confront both the small operator and the large operator are very similar and the research work can apply right across the board. Nevertheless there have always been and will continue to be particular problems confronting the small operator. This is because of the more limited scope in such an enterprise in terms of the provision of facilities and the opportunity for such fanners to call upon resources to cope with disease and the very many complex factors that are encountered in successfully breeding and raising pigs and ultimately supplying the market with  a  satisfactory standard of live pig, which then of course is converted into pig meat for the Australian market and to some extent the overseas market. 
The pig industry has been developed in a quite remarkable way in the last decade because standards of breeding, pig care management and so on have risen very sharply indeed, and at the same time there has grown up a very sound economy in the pig industry. Ten years ago the industry was beset by the problem of great fluctuations in price return, and this made it very difficult for farmers to be effective in their management and to create the degree of efficiency which is essential because of the very nature of pig breeding. But a more even market result throughout the industry iri recent years has brought about a great change, and I am sure that this research programme can contribute further to this important factor in the general trend within the pig industry. 
I have a particular interest in this industry. I suppose everyone has his hobby. As a farmer before I came into this Parliament, I had a great personal interest in pig breeding, and I still have this interest today. I wished many years ago that there had been greater facilities for research, because many of the things that occurred, particularly in the dairying sector, may not have occurred had there been sufficient research. There has been a slow but very positive improvement in standards since the advent of a much more practical approach to the use of control measures for diseases and parasites in particular and the relationship of these to proper feeding and proper management. I can recall as a farmer years ago a very heavy mortality rate in the raising of pigs, and this very often occurred because of the lack of knowledge and the lack of sources of information and the difficulty in getting advice from people skilled in the problems of the care of pigs, including disease and other aspects. This had diminished a great deal, but at the same time there have arisen the sophisticated problems that flow from the use of modern drugs. A reaction may occur if a particular drug is used, and then there may be a need for a very speedy remedy if the effects of this drug are to be overcome. The problems of medicine, drugs and all the other sophisticated things in this day and age in the care of humans and of animals apply particularly to the pig industry. It is for this reason in particular that this programme of research, made possible by the introduction of a small levy on the industry itself and matching funds from the Commonwealth, will create a means of positive research which can contribute a great deal to the industry with which we are dealing under this Bill tonight. I strongly support the Bill. I believe it can do tremendous good for the industry. It can be of great assistance in the immediate and long range future of a very important industry. 1 believe this House will give it full support and will regard it as yet another step forward in what the Government is doing to help primary industry in a positive and practical manner. 
The development of airports and ground facilities of this country has been carried out in an atmosphere of proper board planning despite the fact that over recent years civil aviation has grown quite dramatically. As honourable members will remember, two events of great significance took place last year. These were the opening of the new international terminal building at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport by  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and the opening of the new international Melbourne Airport at Tullamarine. This in itself was a tremendous achievement for civil aviation in Australia. 
These 2 projects, coupled with the extension of the main north-south runway at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport into Botany Bay involved an expenditure of more than $100m which is a very considerable outlay in that space of time. The airports at Sydney and Melbourne are capable of handling Boeing 747 jumbo jets. Again, this is a remarkable achievement for a small country like Australia. It is certainly something that is not shared by a number of other countries around the world. In fact, in this country and in Papua New Guinea which is also currently our responsibility there are nearly 700 aerodromes. A detailed examination by  a  select committee such as that proposed in the motion moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  would be a gigantic task. Such a committee would have to extend its studies to take into account such fundamental requirements as airport engineering and construction problems, the suitability of terrain in the general vicinity of the airport or  a  projected airport, its effect upon air safety, the highly complex techniques required to ensure safe management of the surrounding air space, service access to and from the airport and fitting into community requirements the whole of the aspects of an airport and air transport. I think on this ground alone the Government is justified in rejecting the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
This is a task for trained personnel and for those who are qualified and skilled in all of the ramifications of study, assessment, planning and so on. Certainly, a select committee could not equip itself in any way. As a. member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise I became conscious of this problem during the work and the hearings of that Committee which took into account  a  great deal of information relative to the location of airports. I believe that this is a matter for policy determination and for proper governmental action. There is no denying that the present Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport site is a great asset to this country. But it also, of course, creates great problems. When all the work in hand at the airport has been completed the Government will have spent more than $120m on its development. This makes Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport the largest investment of its kind in civil aviation in Australia. 
Despite the frequent criticism levelled at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport over the years, it has always been regarded as an airport developed on a standard and to meet a requirement which is indispensible for this country. Its planning has often been difficult because, in common with other airports, it has had a problem in meeting the remarkable growth that has occurred not only in air transportation but also in the surrounding community which it serves and in the commercial requirements of the nation as a whole. The same factors apply to the development of Essendon airport and now the more up to date Tullamarine airport. In all of this development the work of the Department of Civil Aviation has been quite outstanding by world standards. The leadership given to that Department by the respective Ministers, the present Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  his predecessor, the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the earlier Ministers over the years, I believe has been of great significance for the future development of air transport in this country. 
The specific problem at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport, of course, is the ever present complaints regarding noise. So serious did the Government consider this matter that it appointed a select committee of this House to inquire into it. That Committee did a very good job in bringing under notice many of the detailed considerations which required attention and which, as a consequence, have been given greater attention and have had greater emphasis placed upon them. This in itself is to the credit of honourable members who served on that Committee and all who co-operated with it. 
It is clear that for the future development of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport there must be consultation with the State 
Government of New South Wales. This is currently being done. Because of the peculiar problems with regard to finding a suitable site in the Sydney area for a second airport, it must be foreseen as an expensive undertaking and a far more expensive project than the development of the new Melbourne Airport at Tullamarine. The Minister for Civil Aviation already has had detailed talks with representatives of the New South Wales State Government and, having in mind the views submitted by that Government, the Commonwealth is proceeding with a proper consideration of this matter. This is a subject of utmost importance in both State and Federal spheres. No intentional delay has been involved. I am sure that every statement issued is positive evidence of this. Rather, an approach has been made in a way that deserves some commendation. 
A second airport for Sydney, no matter which of the sites is finally selected, will involve the expenditure of a great deal of public money and I am sure that all thinking people in this House will agree that nothing will be gained from rushing into the matter. I would point out that it is not a problem that we alone face. Many major world cities need new airports - cities like New York and London - and there has been reference in this debate to recent announcements concerning a third airport for London. We are having great difficulty in finding suitable sites within a reasonable distance of the city, which is exactly the situation facing London. Honourable members will be aware of a recent decision on the site for the third airport at London and, as has been mentioned, this site will be SO miles east of that city. Can one imagine the problems that this creates in all of the ramifications of air transportation? 
The issue of siting a major airport should not be a political football. It is an onerous, complex and extremely technical task demanding the maximum expertise and effort. Future generations will be either well or badly off depending on this decision which must be ma.de carefully and in full co-operation with all of the authorities involved. Noise is really the only basis of complaints that we hear frequently in this House and that we have heard again today. I believe that there has been a great deal ofmisunderstanding and misinterpretation of the attitude of the Department of Civil Aviation towards aircraft noise and its effect on the residents of suburbs near to the present Sydney airport. It must be emphasised thai outside the airport boundaries, which are controlled by the Commonwealth Government, we depend on State and municipal authorities. We are, of course, very concerned about the welfare of the people who live in these areas. The Department is doing its utmost to ensure that noise is kept to a minimum . and I believe that this is in no small measure due to the effects of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. This is the primary aim of planning and technical advances in jet engine design and performance and the lengthening of the existing north-south runway in Sydney win, of course, contribute greatly towards easing the noise problem as will the operation of noise abatement procedures. This is a proper and factual approach. The Department has been very active both in Australia and overseas 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
Is the Prime Minister aware that negotiations for the . establishment of a second steelworks in New South Wales are being jeopardised by the attitude of the Western Australian Government, with the result that the consortium concerned is now looking at alternatives in South America and South Africa? Is he aware that the Premier of Western Australia has failed to give the consortium any assurance about iron ore supplies? Would the establishment of the steelworks represent an investment of about one billion dollars in New South Wales and Western Australia and contribute very substantially to our export income? Will the Prime Minister consider intervening urgently to break the deadlock in Western Australia and thus ensure that the consortium is encouraged to establish a second steel industry in New South Wales? 
-I rise to say a word or two on the question of where political parties stand in respect of important public issues. I want to ask where the Opposition stands in relation to primary industry support. 
Yes, it is a tough one. I want to refer to statements made in the last few months and in particular by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The honourable member was in the chamber a moment ago, but he has gone out. He has echoed similar statements by the honourable members for St George  (Mr Morrison),  Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and others. It is understandable that in the face of these statements the honourable members for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  have shown very great concern - concern bordering on near panic if one reads the statements made by the honourable member for Dawson on 22nd June last on the programme 'This Day Tonight'. On that occasion reference was made to the statements - I think they were on that day or on the day before - by the honourable member for Oxley, who referred to the Launceston conference of the Australian Labor Party. In so doing he said that Labor did not have a primary industry programme that gave a comprehensive, integrated approach. 
The honourable member for Oxley. 
Well, wait for a moment. The honourable member went on to say: 'What we have is a loose patchwork, totally unrelated proposition'. As the Labor Party spokesman for primary industry, the honourable member for Dawson retorted on the programme 'This Day Tonight': 'I have read the paper and I find the statement incredible'. Of course he would find lt incredible because it really was incredible. But I believe it is the true ALP policy. It obviously came straight out of Launceston. It is entirely another matter for the honourable member for Dawson to try to deny it. 
The honourable member for Dawson went on to say: it shows the colossal ignorance of a person who should know better'. He obviously was referring to the honourable member for Oxley. The honourable member for Dawson was obviously serious and meant what he said. I believe that the honourable member ought to clear this matter up in the House and so too should the honourable member for Oxley. Then we would know where the Opposition stood on these important issues. 
Of course, the matter went further. When asked if it was felt that the views of the honourable member for Oxley had found favour at the Launceston conference the honourable member for Dawson said: I find it very hard to believe except that perhaps there are only a few members of the conference that know anything about rural matters'. Of course that is pretty true, too. I am sure there is plenty of evidence of that. Then he went on to say: i can illustrate by this that there has been a lot of discussion recorded in the papers and so on on various rural matters. It amazes me. This is part and parcel of Labor policy.' So straightaway there is a virtually contradiction of what had apparently been authentic comments made on the decisions of the Launceston conference. 
As the interview proceeded, in an effort to get the facts of this matter, the honourable member for Dawson said: T find the statement by the honourable member for Oxley very dangerous indeed'. He went on to say: 'He seems to be the free trader.' Of course these are very, very serious matters. It is put to us that the Country Party and the coalition Government have not been looking after the interests of the primary producer in this period of crisis. That is a very, very stupid challenge to be thrown out by a Party which has no policy. I just want to remind the honourable member for Dawson, who I am pleased to see is in the chamber, that he has a few things that he needs to clear up, as has the honourable member for Riverina, in these important matters. 
If we look at the record and their statements in this House, we find members of the Labor Party day after day crying about the plight of rural industries and saying what the Government should do. They fail to recognise what the Government has done and is doing - the very practical approaches that it has made and the tremendous effort that has been put into rescuing primary industry. This effort is unprecedented in this nation. They go around sowing the seeds of despair and gloom and all the rest of it without any policy at all to back them up. I believe it is timely that the nation should know this. I believe that this Parliament should know it because it is a very serious matter indeed. If the alternative government of this country in fact does not have a rural policy - and this is on the admission of the honourable member for Dawson - it is time it got one. But of course it might be pretty difficult for it to achieve this. The decisions made at Launceston are very binding. 
I was saying,  Mr Speaker,  that the decisions of the Launceston conference are binding and on the admission of the honourable member for Dawson Caucus itself could not change these decisions. 
Of course, a very new member of this House says that we do not know what they are, but they were expressed to the world at large by the honourable member for Oxley, and if they are not true- 
Let the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson come clearly out in the open, state the facts and expose the honourable member for Oxley. If they are not prepared to do that they are not looking after the interests of the people in their rural constituencies whom they pretend to represent. We noticed that near panic gripped the honourable member for Dawson at the time he made these statements and he went on to say that it would be  very difficult indeed for opposition members in marginal rural seats - of course, they are not truly rural seats except in one or two instances - to hold their seats if this in fact were the true position. Tonight is the first opportunity I have had to mention the subject in the House since 22nd June when this matter blew up and presented a very clear picture to the nation of the attitude of the ALP in the sphere of primary industry. The Opposition has every opportunity in this House to clear the matter up, either to expose the honourable member for Oxley for being wrong or, if this is not the case, to admit that it docs not have an effective and proper approach to rural problems, that it does not have a policy at all and certainly that there is a majority of opposition in the ranks of the Labor Party so far as assistance to rural industry is concerned. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1923, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray. 
That the Parliamenttake note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon the 
Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Opposition has moved that the Bill relating to post and telegraph charges be withdrawn and redrafted. However, no case has really been made by the Opposition to justify such a move. The provision of the most efficient service possible at the lowest possible cost to the public is the constant objective of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. This year the cost of postal telecommunication services will be about $1,1 40m, an enormous undertaking when compared with any other enterprise in this country. In budgeting for this expenditure the total commitment in terms of service and expansion has to be taken into account. Although honourable members opposite have claimed that there has been a disproportionate level of employment on a comparative basis in the total operation of the Post Office, the fact remains that the number of people employed by the Post Office has increased by only 2 per cent each year for some time now, whilst plant and equipment have expanded by about 7 per cent each year. 
Members of the Opposition have said very little about employment aspects and certainly they have not admitted in any way the tremendous cost pressures applied as a result of wage decisions. We have heard a great deal about the Opposition's objective of a corporation to run the Post Office but there has been no admission of experience overseas where costs have not been contained and industrial problems appear to have been accentuated. 
The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in his second reading speech gave a comprehensive account of the services and costs involved. We also have the benefit of the White Paper which gives this year, and has done each year since it was introduced a few years ago, a very good account of the position of the Post Office and its prospects. It states quite categorically that the first objective is to report in commercial terms on the financial results of the Post Office, as well as indicating the cash implications for the Commonwealth Budget. I believe that this in itself is a very proper approach and certainly should be taken into account when considering the kinds of proposition that the Opposition has put forward in this debate. 
Other information given in the White Paper provides details of the service departments, growth of business, capital investment, achievements and plans for the future. When one takes into account the services provided, the scope of the Postal Department and the commitments involved the operation of the Post Office is to the credit of the leadership of the present Postmaster-General and the staff who serve under him. Capital expenditure this year will amount to about $424m, an increase of $40m over the last financial year. The significance of that increase is that to maintain and expand the services there has to be an infusion of capital. There has to be capital expenditure. 
The telecommunications section is an increasingly heavy user of capital. It is well known that the cost of any postal service is chiefly in labour. This year about $400m is required to expand telecommunications services, which includes an increase of 20m, a similar increase to that allocated for postal services. The Government expects the Post Office to finance more of its own growth through revenue raising. The postal service is expected as far as practicable to match expenses with earnings. I believe that this is a sound business approach. If charges were not increased as proposed in this measure the postal services would lose about $35m in this financial year and the telecommunications services would lose about Sim. It would not be possible to finance needs in the investment field to meet the community demand, the ever increasing demand for services referred to by previous speakers in this debate, particularly those representing rural areas. I am sure that in the metropolitan sector, although it has not been referred to by honourable members oppo site, there is a great and continuing demand for the provision of new services. 
A real burden on the Post Office in this financial year is the additional cost of about $77m for wages as a result of wage decisions. There have been other increases in costs of materials and supplies for the various services amounting to about $1Om I and other members on the Government side of the chamber are certainly unconvinced that merely to create a corporation to run the Post Office would solve those problems. The Opposition has yet to put forward facts and details to support its contention. The White Paper sets out some other very important considerations. There is a necessity for expansion which creates difficulties in terms of technical facilities, the costs involved in providing them, and so on. That is no secret. 
It is manifest that there is a tremendous responsibility to be accepted. Yet members of the Opposition - the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  in particular - say that it is quite wrong to charge the Post Office interest. The fact remains that all other government business undertakings pay interest or a dividend at a specified rate. The Post Office is required by the Government to pay interest on its borrowings at the long term bond rate. The solution to the problem could be found only by shifting the burden from the resources that flow from income and placing it directly on the field of taxation collections. The balance sheet must account for what occurs in whichever field the burden of interest is placed. I believe that if the Opposition were seriously to move for a change along those lines it would be the first to complain when the public purse was called upon to meet the very heavy charge that would result. 
The Post Office in its wider spectrum is expected to provide some public services but despite that aspect there is still a need for it to be regarded as a business undertaking. There is no other effective way of dealing with the provision  of  services  of  the kind provided by the Post Office. I wish now to refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  about the problem of the costs  of  telephone calls by country residents. Two possible avenues of consideration were mentioned. In addition there is the proposal of the Opposition, lt has been indicated by the Postmaster-General that the Post Office is studying the costs of country users of telephone services but a report has not yet been received by him. 1 believe that it is fair to make some observations on this subject. The Opposition's proposal is that some specific areas of benefit should be provided in selected areas in order to assist decentralisation. No indication has been given of how this would be contained and to what extent such a concession may be extended. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  referred to special telephone charging to aid decentralisation. He went on to say that it would be most beneficial and would solve many problems. However, he failed to set out some of the arithmetic that is involved, lt is obvious that if there was a consolidated scale of charges the standard charge, of the present proposals for rates, would come out at about 80c for a trunk call of 3 minutes. 
The first problem that we see in this situation is that the users, say, 30 miles from a main centre would in fact be paying a very great deal more than they are paying now. It could well be that the cost to these people would increase fourfold. I am sure that the average user in the business in the country would not be able to face up to that kind of adjustment for the purpose of equalising the situation by aiding those in the other section who find it a burden to meet the charges relating to the 200 to 400 mile bracket. This is a matter which will require a great deal more research and a great deal more consideration. Certainly there is no simple answer. I believe that it is a matter that must be given serious consideration, and I believe that it is justified that there should be the study which is currently being undertaken in relation to this matter. 
However, we must be realists. If we are to provide a service at a lower cost for certain calls the effect on traffic and the requirement of facilities to carry that kind of traffic become an immediate consideration. It could well be that the cost that would be faced in capital outlay to provide the equipment to carry that kind of traffic would be astronomical to the extent that it would be quite impractical to have a call ratio at these lower levels that are being suggested. It is a matter of trying to find an answer to a very difficult question. I am sure that the resources of the PostmasterGeneral's Department will spare no effort in looking into this very important matter. 
Reference has also been made to the problem of providing telephones quickly in country areas where applicants are waiting for the service. The honourable member for Kennedy in particular referred to this matter. I remind the House of the very forward step that was taken last year when the Government decided that telephone lines could be provided for up to 15 miles at no cost to the potential subscriber except the normal connection fee. Since that time no fewer than 670 new services have been provided at a cost of $l.lm. In addition 1,546 existing services have had their lines upgraded at a cost of $1.4m. So the total outlay in this new field in the first year was $2.5m. I am sure that in the more distant parts of Australia many people are already getting the advantage of this new policy introduced only last year. Of course, it is well recognised that a great deal more has yet to be done to meet the demands that exist. It can be done only if the financial resources are there to cope with this need. It is perhaps quite basic to say that the proposition before us is distasteful in many respects - no-one likes to increase charges - 'but there is no other answer if the funds have to be produced in order not only to maintain but also to extend services and to see that a proper business operation is in fact the consequence of the administration of this service. 
In the field of the administration of the Department generally, we have heard a very long dissertation by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  and I think earlier by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on the subject of the wisdom of establishing a corporation - I think the honourable member for Adelaide suggested 2 corporations - to take over the existing operation. But as I mentioned earlier, there was no acknowledgement of the difficulties that have confronted corporations established both in the United Kingdom and in the United States of America. I want to emphasise particularly the fact that in the case of the 
British Post Office service, despite the establishment of a corporation, the loss in the last financial year was no less than $53m. I think we can all recall that earlier this year one of the most serious industrial disputes experienced in any postal service occurred in the British Post Office. The mails did not move for weeks, to the inconvenience of every section of the community and, in fact, to the inconvenience of many people in this country. If that is an example of what can be achieved through the establishment of a corporation, I certainly hope that we have none of it in this country. If we look at the situation in the United States we find that the loss there was no less than $ 1,300m - a tremendous loss. So the idea of a corporation, so extensively referred to by the honourable member for Stirling earlier in this debate, seems to have produced a very negative result for the United States of America. 
Other aspects have been raised in this debate. Reference was made to the increase in charges for broadcasting and television licences. The facts of the matter are that there has been no rise in this field since 1968 although costs have continued to increase. Costs have increased to the extent that total expenditure is now $82m, which is an increase from $60m. The gross receipts from licences has risen from only $46m to S51m. I believe that it is right and proper that the public purse cannot be expected to go on meeting the difference. Here again there is the requirement that if we are to provide the services that are available they have to be paid for. Some problems have been raised. I think particularly by the- honourable member for Maranoa. He made a very good point when he mentioned that in some localities there is the difficulty for television users of satisfactory standards of viewing. On the other hand, it must be recalled that in the very areas to which he, and I think the honourable member for Kennedy, referred there has been a tremendous investment to bring this modern media to those distant parts of Australia. The outlay is very considerable indeed. But I am sure that we have sympathy with those honourable members who have constituents who find a problem so far as the standard of transmission is concerned. Perhaps this is another matter that could be looked at. 
I believe that the proposition before the House is the only approach that any responsible government could make at this time. I believe that it accords with the budgeting that has been introduced in this Budget session. I believe that it is a proper approach and one that deserves the support of this House and of all who are concerned to see that we continue in this country to provide the best possible communications service through the medium of the postal service and, of course, by means of radio and television. 
-4 rise to commend the statement which has been made to the House because I believe it gives a very responsible account of the Government's action in this matter. It is rather interesting to hear the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  assert that the correct location for Sydney's second airport would have been Towra Point. I wonder just what his colleague, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  really thinks about that, lt surprises me that the Opposition in this matter should assert so positively that it is the view of the Opposition that Towra Point was the correct site. We will certainly be interested to hear from the honourable member for St George about this when he speaks a little later in this debate. 
I will not join issue with the honourable member for Newcastle. He has made this further comment but I recall that he very clearly said that Towra Point was the site that should have been proceeded with. I think the important consideration is the fact that a recommendation has now been made and that a proper inquiry based upon appropriate information assembled by the Department of Civil Aviation will be conducted into this matter. Of course it is correct that the State authorities should have a significant part in this approach. I believe that the terms of reference of the committee that is to be established, a joint Commonwealth-State committee, are more than appropriate for the task that the committee will undertake. 
The honourable member for Newcastle criticised the Government and referred to reports in 1969, 1965 and 1968. He said that there should have been a different approach to this matter, but I remind the House that the facts are that the development of the present Sydney (KingsfordSmith) airport has been in accordance with the most practical approach possible. That was to provide for both international and internal transportation by air the best possible service for the city of Sydney. There has of course been and continues to be some discomfort for some citizens of that city. This is most regrettable, but the establishment at Mascot of an asset that has been developed for an outlay of Si 67m and the fact that the extension of the north-south runway has still to be completed spells out very clearly that it would be false economy to sell out the Sydney Airport at this point of time. 
I believe that this is the background that must be taken into account when assessing the statement that has just been made to the House. The extension of the runway into Botany Bay certainly will also minimise the noise factor and it will give the added advantage of providing an opportunity to develop a parallel runway. I believe this is a proper approach and I seriously question the assertion by the Opposition that it would make an immediate decision to sell out Sydney Airport and establish an alternative airport for Sydney. I believe that if the responsibility were with the Opposition - we hope it will not be at any time in the future - it would not proceed on these lines but would follow quite closely the pattern that is now firmly established as a consequence of the investigations that have been made and would seek to establish in due course a second airport to serve the city of Sydney. There are a number of reasons for this, not the least of which is the fact that there is just not a suitable site within easy distance of the city of Sydney. Richmond and Somersby are locations which, have been determined as the result of a very detailed study. 
Somersby happens to be in the electorate of the honourable member for Robertson. If he were to pay as much attention, to this matter as other members of this House perhaps he would be one of the first to support a proper investigation into the prospects of the use of the site at Somersby. But of course the Richmond site is a far more logical location, provided that when the State authorities have had an opportunity to express their views on it and when further investigation of a technical nature has been completed it turns out  to  be the best site. But in terms of distance from the city of Sydney and of its relationship to the built up area of the Sydney' metropolis certainly Richmond seems to offer the best prospects. I do not think that his is the appropriate time to debate precisely the location at Richmond, but it is fair to assume that it has a relationship to the existing Royal Australian Air Force establishment in that locality. 
The terms of reference give the opportunity for those 2 sites to which I have referred, as well as others, to be looked at effectively. I believe that that will provide the means for avoiding some of the pitfalls that have been experienced with Tullamarine and other main airports in Australia. A very sound decision was made in the case of Tullamarine. The land was acquired and the project got under way. But because of a degree of lack of realisation on the part of Victorian State authorities too much development occurred too close to the Tullamarine Airport before the Airport was even completed or opened. I hope that the action now being taken in relation to the selection of a site for a second airport for Sydney will avoid that very serious risk. 
The State authorities alone will have the means to avoid any problem of that nature. It is all very well for the Opposition to be critical of the Government on this matter but, as I said earlier, if the Opposition had the responsibility for the selection of the site I doubt whether it would have proceeded in any other direction. If the Opposition were to turn back the clock it would have to admit that the first proposal for the establishment of the present Sydney airport was made by the Chifley Government in 1946 and that the New South Wales Government of the day, which was a Labor administration, agreed with that proposal. The statement that there has been a misdemeanour on the part of this Government in the very formative stages of the airport really cannot be sustained. At no point of time has there been a practical stage at which one could say that it was appropriate to move from the existing Sydney Airport site to an alternative site. One of the real reasons for this is the nature and geography of the Sydney area. 
If there had been a site in Sydney similar to the Tullamarine site in Melbourne in terms of distance from the existing airport and if there had been an appropriate area closer to Sydney then perhaps a different policy may have been appropriate. But the suggestion is made to those who use our own internal air system, and to international operators that they should use a site as far removed from the city of Sydney as those that obviously are the only ones available, would have met with very great resistance. I suppose it is fair to say that even the 2 sites that have been mentioned specifically will have that disability at least in a few years to come. 
Reference has been made to the decision of the British Government. The honourable member for Newcastle said that the British Government did the right thing and made the right decisions in view of the problems of the London (Heathrow) Airport. But the development of a new airport at Foulness, 50 miles east of the City of London, at the cost of $ 1,500m is only just getting under way. So the decisions to which the honourable member for Newcastle referred as having been a demonstration of action by another government are certainly hard to find. The comparison if one wants to assess it in that way - of the City of London, in terms of traffic and the problems of getting to and from the airports that serve that city, with the City of Sydney demonstrates clearly that the decision that we make must be for a very long term project. When we think of Richmond or the other site we are thinking in terms of a distance of 30, 40 and more miles. 
The appropriate thing to do is to develop a second airport which, in the first instance, will serve for international travel. There is a very good reason for that. 1 believe that the travelling public in Australia and the commercial interests of Sydney - those who use air transport day after day - will still want to use the Sydney Airport for a long time to come. In other words, can one visualise the situation in which the journey from Sydney to Melbourne or Brisbane to Sydney would be equal in time to travelling by road from the city to a second Sydney airport? I do not believe that that is feasible as far as our own internal travel is concerned, but it is a different matter for international travel. I do not think that it would be asking too much to expect international travellers to spend a little more time getting from a second airport which was an international airport, to their final destination in the city of Sydney. Of course, that is purely a personal view. 
I believe that in the light of all the information that has been given in this House in the past and in the light of the various reports that are so valuable in assessing this whole matter, there is a practical course that must be followed. The appointment of a Commonwealth-State committee will provide an opportunity to follow through very logically the steps that are necessary to reach the point where we can act in a manner appropriate to the time, to the economic factors that must be taken into account and to the balanced interests of all sections of the community. I repeat that the Government recognises the disabilities of those who live under the flight paths of the existing Sydney Airport and the discomfort that they suffer from noise. But at the sme time a vast section of the community depends on the effective operation of the Sydney Airport, and its interests must also be taken into account. 
Undoubtedly, when a report is submitted by the proposed committee further steps will have to be taken. No doubt at some stage the Public Works Committee will want to study the report that is submitted. That would be right and proper. I am sure that the statement that has been made is timely and that it accounts in a very proper manner for the Government's actions. I very strongly commend what has been put to the House tonight. 
The estimated capital expenditure of the Postmaster-General's Department this year amounts to no less than $424m, which is an increase of $40m on last financial year. In discussing the estimates for this Department a number of observations have already been made by honourable members but I think some reference should be made to the important role of the Department and the services it renders to the community as a whole. This year about $400m will be required for extending telecommunication services alone. Merely to keep pace with departmental requirements this expenditure is absolutely essential. In postal services the capital outlay is much lower. It is of the order of $20m for this year. To carry out its operations the Australian Post Office is required to draw upon the Treasury for no less than $255m in the form of loan assistance. 
In discussing the Department's rates and charges and its level of service I think that we have to have regard to these important considerations. The postal service is expected, as far as possible, to match expenditure with earnings. This has been the policy - I am sure that it is still the policy - adopted by both sides of this chamber although it is not always clearly expressed. If postal charges had not been increased we would have faced a loss of $35m. Particular reference was made to this loss in the Bill on the adjustment to charges for postal, telegraph and telephone services. We should remember, of course, that in budgeting for the estimated expenditure the increased cost of labour amounting to $77m is the major item. When we have reference to the level of service, as we had this afternoon, it must be remembered that the labour content in the operation of the Department is terribly critical because without the sustained employment of those people who provide this level of service it would not be practical to give the kind of service that we have today. 
A lot has been said in regard to cost comparisons. I want to refer to a very interesting article on comparisons reported in the Melbourne 'Herald' a short time ago. That newspaper had gone to a good deal of trouble to compare costs today with those of 60 years ago. It is of interest to note that the cost of postage is relatively cheaper today than it was 60 years ago. In 1911 the average basic wage was sufficient to post 504 letters. Today's average basic wage is sufficient to post 773 letters. I think that people often lose sight of this fact. The Post Office has the responsibility to provide a service to the public but at the same time it has to deal with the problem of costs and maintaining a relationship with the requirements of public interest. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  strongly advocated the establishment of a corporation to take over the Postmaster-General's Department. If we look at the consequences of this approach overseas we would be hesitant to give any strong support to this proposal. For example, the United States lost no less than SI, 300m last year. The British postal service, which is now operated by a corporation lost $53m. Canada lost $100m. Those figures indicate the lack of success of an approach along the lines suggested by the honourable member for St George. 
 The honourable member has said that the telephone service is run by private enterprise. I presume that he is referring to the position in the United States. If we were to make a comparison of the service given by the Australian Post Office in telecommunications and telephone services we would find that Australia is way ahead of more affluent countries such as the United States of America. This applies particularly to the service given in country areas in Australia. These areas are much better served than comparable ones in the United States. Again, this is merely an instance of the requirement of capital and the need for revenue to make this level of service possible. One would be failing in one's responsibility if it were not to be said that it is recognised that there are some great needs to be met both in the provision of additional services and in the maintenance of existing services. However, as I said a moment ago, this can be done only if the revenue is available. I am sure that this does not suggest that those who administer the Postmaster-General's Department should have a free hand to go ahead and ignore the cost aspect - in other words, that this Parliament should underwrite an open order in respect of costs. The expressions of honourable members indicate that the Parliament would not accept that kind of approach. The facts are that no such approach is made. A responsible attitude exists in this direction. 
Concern has been expressed about the problems of maintaining small country post offices. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  spoke with some feeling in this regard. I am sure we all share his concern, but it is also important to have a clear understanding of what happens in small country areas, particularly where a small post office may have provided a service for many years. Ultimately it may be the only business operation left in a small community from which people have dispersed to other centres. The pattern of operation has often been that to get their mail and to have the benefit of the services provided, local residents have to call at that small country post office. If it is in the situation where the business passing through the town and the revenue raised by the post office are so low that it becomes a problem to maintain the post office and the alternative is to provide a local roadside delivery, undoubtedly the local residents are better served if this is done. I am sure that in every instance a full investigation is made. I know that this has occurred in a number of localities in my own electorate. The consequence has been that a better grade of service has resulted from the change from the small post office to a road delivery system. 
There is much that one could refer to in other fields, but time does not permit this. I conclude by saying that the responsibility of the Postmaster-General's Department is to provide service first, to see that there is reasoned economy and that the results achieved both in the high level services and in the lower echelon are the best possible for the community that is served. 
This debate has ranged over a very wide area. It is really an important matter, but I do not propose to detain the House for very long. I believe that the legislation is absolutely essential in order to sponsor the expansion of the marketing of dairy produce and, of course, that is the primary purpose of it. 1 was surprised to hear in this chamber this afternoon criticism by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Gr sby).  both of whom claimed that effective action had not been taken to promote the sale of dairy produce. This very measure is designed to assist in that direction. Of course it is a measure which is dependent entirely upon the actions already taken if we are to achieve the success in expanding the sale of dairy produce, particularly in South East Asia, which is the very aim of this legislation. I believe it is quite misleading for honourable members to have said in this debate that the actions of the industry itself and of the Government have not been directed in the best interests of the industry. 
Of course, it is very easy for the honourable member for Dawson to deny what he said by merely saying: Who said that?' 1 suggest that he read Hansard tomorrow. If he does he will find, unless he has made some changes to his expressed words, that he was very critical indeed.  His  criticism was both by direct comment and by inference. I recall some of the words that he expressed. He said: We waited for people to come to this country to buy our produce but we did not go out and try to sell it.' Of course nothing is further from the truth. 
The Government is taking a responsible course of action on foreign investment in Australia. It has investigated the position and a White Paper will be presented to the Parliament. What the Opposition is attempting to do this afternoon is to pre-judge the situation and to undermine the confidence of the people of Australia in our economy. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  could well be described as a disciple of gloom who has run right across the board with anything but the facts. The Government is fulfilling its responsibilities in this vital matter in the best interests of the Australian community. The Government has not sold out the interests of this country and claims to the contrary by the Opposition are a sheer fabrication. It is vital that confidence be maintained in the Australian economy both internally and externally. Of course, the first things we find today are the utterances which can be described as nothing more nor less than the kind of propaganda that would scare off required foreign investment in this country. 
We have achieved a situation of progress and development and despite what has been said by the Opposition the fact remains that without a content of foreign investment in this country we could not have had the progress which we have enjoyed. However the Government and all those who support the Government on this side of the House do not leave it at that. In any discussion on such a complex issue it is reasonable that we should think in terms of the implications and that we should at all costs avoid the danger of an emotional approach. The issue can very easily be clouded. We must be objective when we look at the total scene and it is for this reason that a study by the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Treasury has been undertaken on a basis that will produce the facts without fiction and this study will produce the answers required for a proper debate and a proper assessment as mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  earlier in this debate. I think it has been overlooked that a few months ago the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  announced that an up to date publication of the directory of overseas investment in Australian manufacturing industries would shortly be issued. Again, this is a document which will give the facte and not fiction on this very important issue. 
Anyone who has studied comments made by the honourable member for Riverina in recent times will find very great difficulty in assessing what he has had to say on this issue. He has challenged a sell-out particularly in investment in land in Australia. Yet, in the Northern Territory not one acre of land has in fact been sold. I agree that land has been made available on leasehold but this was for developmental purposes. One could go to other parts of Australia and look at what has been done. These things could not have been achieved without the know-how or the use of foreign capital and the energy that is generated with the use of it. Again, the Government does not leave it at that. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Treasurer and every responsible member on this side of the House in recent times who has spoken on this issue has said in cogent terms that there is a problem to be dealt with. There is no doubt at all that the Government is approaching this matter in a sane and proper manner. Yet, of course, we hear these disciples of gloom claim all sorts of extravagant things. 
The honourable member for Lalor said a few moments ago that 25 per cent of the ownership of manufacturing interests in this country was held through foreign investment. He may have access to some documentation that gives him a basis for this calculation, but I would rather wait for the factual documents which will be brought to this House in a matter of weeks to see what the real position is. Overseas investment makes up about only 11 per cent of the total investment funds in Australia, and that I believe is a reasonable proportion. I say to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and others who want to be extreme critics that they should have a good look at the facts before they become so prepared to assert things on this issue. 
Let us look at some of the specifics. It is true that some industries have a very high and perhaps undesirable content of overseas investment in one way or another, and dangers arise from this. Damage can be done to the national prospects and future development if things are allowed to run too far in a particular direction, but the Government's record in this matter is very clear indeed. What was done in the case of the Nabarlek uranium find? Within hours a decision was announced by the Government. What was done in the case of MLC Ltd? Action was taken within hours. But in taking this action the Government has not created a totally obstructive approach to gaining the interest of foreign participation in this country, the kind of participation which can be seen to be desirable. Let us take one of Australia's greatest public companies, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. What do we find? It is the butt of criticism from the Opposition at every opportunity it wishes to take. 
The honourable member for Riverina asks whether it is an Australian company. It is one of Australia's greatest public companies, and he knows it. If one wants to deny the facts in these matters, it is very easy to do so merely by putting up a smokescreen. This is what we find happening too much in relation to this total question. We want to get down to the real facts of the matter so damage will not be done to development projects by half baked proposals. We want to see whether a need for action will be revealed by the study now being undertaken. I think there is good reason to believe that there will be. We want to see proposals put forward in this Parliament which will be effective in the national interest and not restrictive in terms of future prospects of maintaining our economy and ensuring that we are able to maintain the work force in full employment. 
It is hypocrisy for the honourable member for Lalor to say here today that there is a danger in this country in terms of employment and prospects because of foreign investment and because of what he described as the risk of a monopolistic approach, which he asserts can influence the monetary policies and the financial approaches made by this Government. Nothing could be further from the truth, and he knows it. I believe that the Government should be commended for its management of the economy. If we look at the total scene we will see very clearly that if we had acted in a more precipitate fashion towards foreign investment in the last 12 months there would have been added a restrictive element which could well have made the total situation less favourable for every section of the community. Would that have been the time at which to introduce restrictive measures? Certainly it would not. The Government's action has been a correct action. The Government's approach has been one of mature, objective and responsible administration, and any criticism of it is certainly badly based. 
The honourable member interjects but he fails to recall the great impetus which was given by the creation of the Australian Industries Development Corporation, the first real action ever taken by any government in this country to meet the kinds of problems that are being debated today. No similar proposition was ever put forward by a socialist administration, and I am certain that in the future as well we will find that socialists will fail miserably in this direction. 
The need for this legislation arises from the extreme militancy which wc have experienced within sections of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Bill simply provides for the Public Service arbitration tribunal to deal with what are termed industrial situations. In short these are strikes, bans or limitations on work in which officials, officers and others are engaged as part of their responsibilities as members of the Commonwealth Public Service. In the last few years there has been a growing tendency towards a certain kind of militancy and I believe that this legislation is timely to deal with this problem. It is undoubted that unions have the right to strike but it must also be equally a requirement that the employer or management is entitled to have a tool for proper and peaceful processes. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  completely denies this right. He advocates militancy as did the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  I think that the honourable membar for Burke made a classic statement when he said that the phrase 'no work no pay' was a vote-winner. It is time that the honourable member took a realistic view of the attitude of the public, the workers and the whole community in this regard. I believe that this Bill will provide an opportunity for better employer-employee relationships. It is not vindictive against the employee; that is as clear as a pikestaff. No evidence to the contrary has been put forward so far in this debate. An arbiter is an essential element if we are to have results at a time of need. It is sheer hypocrisy to say that there is something wrong with the proposition that industrial matters be dealt with by private hearings and private sittings. The whole basis of the proposition is that we should provide for an atmosphere of conciliation and negotiation. Surely that would be one of the main ingredients in resolving industrial problems. 
I think that has been well and truly answered by what I have just said, but the honourable member does not want to recognise it. Increased militancy on the part of some unions and the use of certain tactics have been the cause of a great deal of loss within this nation in the last few years, but particularly within the last 2 years. I want to refer to the impact that union action has had on the operation of the Australian Post Office. Some unions, of course, have been reasonable in their attitude but others have been extreme in their approach, to the point of causing a great deal of inconvenience and loss to themselves, but at the same time causing very extreme inconvenience and loss of revenue to the public. The increase in industrial stoppages in the last 3 to 4 years is significant indeed. Between 1960 and 1969 there were 25 stoppages in the Post Office; in 1970 there were 63 stoppages, and in 1971 there were 58 stoppages. Man-hours lost through stoppages in 1970 totalled 381,777, and wages lost in 1970 amounted to $528,027. Man-hours lost in 1971 totalled 146,594, and wages lost in 1971 amounted to $272,896. 
Strikes were occasioned by a small number of key personnel. Large numbers of other employees reported for duty. They were not able to work but they were still paid. I think that this is a very significant consideration. It points up the attitude that has been developed and encouraged by certain sections of the trade union movement. In 1968 the number of disputes within the Post Office was not as great as it has been in more recent times. The tendency towards this great increase in industrial difficulty is, I believe the real basis, reason and justification for the legislation with which we are now dealing. It may be recalled that in many of these unfortunate stoppages and strikes fewer than the total number of employees were directly involved but if one tallies some of the figures to which I have referred one sees that within a short space of time there was a loss of wages of $2m to $3m, with virtually no productivity being recorded during the time these losses were sustained. A more recent example of the guerrilla type tactics of unions is to be seen by looking at the record of disputes at the Sydney Mail Exchange. On 21st September last 4 technicians refused to switch on the mail handling equipment. All work stopped for 24 hours. A total of 2,250 man-shifts were lost in mail handling and 500 manshifts were lost in the technical area. Notwithstanding, 2,750 people reported for duty. They could not work but their salaries, amounting to $50,000, were paid. Is that a fair go for the community? ls that a fair go for the people who come along to do an honest day's work and are prevented from doing so? 
One could run through other figures, some of which were quoted by the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street).  But in summary we find that from 1968 to 1972 a total of 32 days were lost in the Post Office, and that loss covered the entire operation of the Post Office as an organisation. This is a staggering loss in any terms within any business operation. It has had an enormous effect upon the community at large. Of course the height of folly was the statement by the honourable member for Burke that if under the proposed legislation a telegram message was to be sent out to certain employees it might not reach them because the handling of telegrams could quite well cease because of a strike. What is his answer to this kind of sheer extreme militancy?  His  attitude suggests that all he wants to do is to see the system break down, come to a complete halt and stay that way, with no system of conciliation or method for getting parties to a dispute to negotiate. 
The number of work to regulations campaigns is well known, but 2 examples are to be found in the Australian Post Office. Firstly, the abbreviation of the name of a State in the address on a letter was regarded as a breach of regulations, so the mail stopped. The second incident related to the riding of bicycles on footpaths by postmen. 
It is contrary to traffic regulations, not PMG regulations. Of course one is left really wondering when these kinds of tactics are used as an excuse for working to regulations. The honourable member for Burke smiles, but he knows full well that he contradicted himself. He defeated his own case this afternoon when he made observations of the kind to which we listened. Frequently we are told by the Opposition that service is the most important thing in the Australian Post Office. 
We have had presented to the Parliament in the last 2 days a series of petitions, most of which have been initiated by Opposition interests, criticising the service of the Post Office. The cry has been not to close any more post offices, notwithstanding the fact that there is a clear understanding of what the position is in relation to the closing of certain post offices. On the one hand honourable members opposite clamour for more service, the retention of service and the like, but in this debate tonight no reference has been made by the Opposition to the service given to the public by the Commonwealth Public Service through its operation of the Australian Post Office. Honourable members opposite cannot have it both ways. No voices were raised by the Opposition against strikes which affect the community. In fact what we have heard this afternoon was an attempt to justify them, support them, condone them and to urge their continuation on a permanent basis. This I believe is the real truth of the matter. Undoubtedly the public at large, as admitted by the honourable member for Burke, is opposed to a situation in which we find people not allowed to work but of course expecting to be paid. Arbitration processes can and will be made available under this legislation to overcome this very serious problem. 
The honourable member for Stirling said that the trade union movement was opposed to this approach. I want to quote from a letter written by the General Secretary of the Australian Postal Workers Union to the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs on 12th August last year. I think it is very significant indeed because it completely contradicts what we have been told in this House by the Opposition. It states: 
It has always been the case, and should be the case, in the opinion of this union, that if satisfactory agreement cannot be reached between the central administration of the Department and the Federal Executive of the Union on industrial matters, then the next logical step is to seek to have the Public Service Arbitrator apply his good offices. 
The letter goes on and justifies completely the approach that is now being made by the. Government, and yet the Opposition in no way wants to support that union in its contention that this kind of approach would be desirable. This is far from the experience of the actions of the unions in recent disputes. The unions have thumbed their noses at such processes and no appeals were made to the arbiter at all. This was left to the Public Service Board. In fact it would be true to say that attempts were made to prevent any action being taken which would get down to the nub of the problem so that there might be a solution to it. 
The honourable member for Burke, like his friends, is anxious to condone what we have experienced in this country. He will grasp at any straw to prevent this legislation from being enacted. In so doing he and his friends will deny those members of the unions who want to see an improvement in the system the right to see that improvement introduced. They will fail, of course, because the House will pass the legislation and this will be a breath of fresh air in the trade union movement as a whole. It will be a breath of fresh air for those honest members of the unions who want to see and experience an improvement in the relationships that have existed in recent times. I refer to those members of the unions who through their diligence have worked hard and have sought to gain the kind of recognition and status within their unions and within the Commonwealth Public Service to which they are entitled and which they want to enjoy in the years ahead but which they see crumbling away because of mistrust, misguidance and misadventure on the part of some leaders of some unions. 
If one were to go through the details of the bans that have been introduced in recent times one would see a record of disaster for unionism, for government administration and for the community itself. This legislation is intended to remedy this situation. I refer to the recent ban on the provision and maintenance of business telephones, the handling of telephone accounts and the work by contractors in the wiring of buildings, the provision of external trenches and the like. This had a drastic effect on the operations of the Australian Post Office. No fewer than 21,000 new installations of telephones were delayed and 6.000 existing subscribers were left without service. They were not amused. They were justified in being very annoyed and in making serious complaints about it. This legislation is intended to remedy that kind of disastrous situation, lt is sound and positive legislation, yet we find members of the Opposition in this debate trying to tell the Parliament that there is no justification for the legislation and that they will oppose it by their vote. 
Let us examine the effects on the operations of the Australian Post Office of the ban to which I have referred. From 28th January to 1st March there was no payment of telephone accounts. In the vicinity of Sim a day in revenue was lost. These are funds which are used for the daily running of the Australian Post Office and yet a few months ago we heard members of the Opposition ridiculing the Government for the inescapable increases in rates and charges which were imposed for the operations of the Post Office. Honourable members opposite criticise this legislation which is one means of getting sanity back into the relationships between the employer and the employees in this particular field. It is legislation which can ensure that there is a means of cutting down on the kind of losses to which I have just referred. If that in itself is not a justification I find it hard to see logic in the arguments which have been advanced this afternoon. I believe that the present legislation which was enacted many years ago when it was considered really not the done thing for public servants to go on strike is outdated and outmoded and has not kept pace with other provisions for the maintenance of relationships which are essential between employer and employee. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
As the House rose for the dinner adjournment I was referring to the importance of this legislation because it makes provision to deal with very vital matters in the system as it touches industrial relations in this country, particularly in the field of the Commonwealth Public Service. I referred to the very unfortunate trend which has set in. One of the interesting factors in this debate has been the complete absence of front bench speakers from the Opposition. Neither the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  nor the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  - or indeed any of the other front bench members who are usually regarded as specialists in this field - has spoken. I do not want to in any way write down the honourable member for Sterling but anyone who heard his speech could do little else than to say that it was extremely disappointing because he put no case at all as the honourable member leading for the Opposition. He certainly had no constructive proposals and said little, other than that the measure would be opposed. 
This legislation will provide a proper opportunity for reasoned conciliation and negotiation and I am confident it will cut tremendously the losses on both sides, particularly the losses which are suffered by the individual unionist who would rather see sensible, negotiations and a result achieved than be kept in the dark by his own leaders for a long time when no productive negotiations are in progress. Then at the end of it all he finds that the same result would no doubt have been achieved had the machinery been there to deal with the situation. This legislation will provide proper machinery to deal with industrial situations of the kind we have experienced in recent months and which have had a growing tendency to cause real discontent in major sections of the Public Service, particularly, as I said this afternoon, in the Post Office. I am confident that in the. foreseeable future there will be a different attitude on the part of unions and the Opposition. They will see the value of this legislation. Perhaps it will be a very happy day indeed for all concerned when that occurs. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said in this House earlier this afternoon, the Government will not permit a foreign takeover of a private enterprise sector of Australia's  2-airline  system, nor will it permit any action which might result in foreign control of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. I see the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  smiling. This afternoon he expressed very cogent views on this important public issue but of course he did not proceed to tell us how in the immediate circumstances his views could become a matter of action and reality. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who led this debate on behalf of the Opposition really spoke with his tongue in his cheek. At no stage did he propose a positive course of action. I believe that the Government's statement, through the Prime Minister today, was a proper one in all the circumstaances. The present takeover bid by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd for the share capital of Ansett Transport Industries is, prima facie, a normal business transaction within a freely competitive economic environment. To look at it any other way would be wrong. But, of course, there are other issues which quite properly should be debated today. 
It can be said that the Government has a real stake in this matter because of the guarantees and the financial support which have been given to Ansett Transport Industries and, let me go further, because of the privileges which have been afforded to Australia's own airline, Trans-Australia Airlines. Of course, we have a  2-airline  policy which permits these  2  operators to carry on business in a particular way which preserves their rights and privileges and affords them protection. 
The honourable member asks whether the Government believes in free enterprise. This matter of public importance expresses an intended criticism of the Government. On the other hand we have heard other honourable members, particularly the honourable member for Newcastle, referring to an earlier takeover. The honourable member for Newcastle, with his tongue in his cheek, asked whether  Sir Reginald  Ansett had sought Government assistance at the time of that earlier takeover. He said that he had certain criticisms to make of Ansett Transport Industries, and he made them. He referred particularly to the decision of the company to increase its dividend for the immediate period to meet the economic challenge and the financial pressures placed upon it. He said consideration should be given to how any private enterprise sector - of course, he was referring specifically to this sector - would act in the interests of employees when they sought improved conditions, increased wages and the like. The point made was that there should be a restrictive situation in terms of private enterprise in Australia, so I say to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  that he wants to be very careful in the interjections he makes. 
Mi Daly - If you believe in private enterprise why not allow 6 airlines to operate? 
We now get a further interjection. Today the Opposition is completely split on this vital question. No cohesive policy is flowing from the Opposition on this matter. Certainly there is no basic proposition concerning what should be done, beyond this wordy matter of public importance that the Government has failed to introduce laws with respect to the takeover of companies, particularly where such companies operate under Government franchises and guarantees. I believe there are matters of import in this issue and that the Prime Minister properly has referred to them. Of course we could go further and refer to a federal transport policy and a national policy on monopolies and the way in which they operate, although not so much from the viewpoint of private enterprise versus socialism or any other theoretical approach. We heard the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and his typical Fabian socialist approach to this issue. However, let us consider it in terms of the real national interest. We should consider the question of transport, the cost factors that arise and the services that must be rendered. It is for this reason that the Government has supported and continues to support a 2 airline system in this nation. Years ago it was recognised that to have a viable and efficient airline system a policy of the kind which has been operating for a long time now was in the best interests of the Australian nation. Of course the Opposition would have had one airline in Australia had it had the chance. There is no doubt about that. 
Over the years the Government has taken a positive course. Today we are faced with a public issue which quite properly goes beyond the immediate interests of the respective shareholders of the 2 large Australian public companies involved - Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. I believe, and I am sure a majority of honourable members in this House believe, that first and foremost the principles of free enterprise must apply. Beyond that, great care needs to be taken. There needs to be the kind of scrutiny referred to by the Prime Minister. I believe we could go a little further and we should think in terms of the dangers of takeovers by a monolithic enterprise. Such takeovers could create dangers to government policy, dangers to the national interests and dangers to the economic needs of the day. Certainly this is a big issue which goes beyond the question of the immediate interests of the shareholders of the 2 companies. 
Massive losses are being incurred by Australian railway systems. In New South Wales I believe the loss will be about $30m this year and in Victoria about $25m. We know that much of the difficulty in the operation of transport arises because of the attitude of the unions in respect of what they believe should be the result for those who have a tight knit control either on the waterfront or in other sections of the transport industry. However, quite apart from that, let us be realists and recognise that the constitutional limitations imposed by section 92 of the Constitution have created really tremendous problems for the transport system of this country. 
Inherent in the present situation is the fact that road transport has become a dominant factor. It is able to achieve massive profits and I am sure that this has been a big factor in the success of Thomas Nationwide Transport. As I mentioned, our railway systems are falling into decay and are experiencing great public losses. These factors need to be recognised, heeded and taken into account by any responsible government. This Government is prepared to do so within the limits of its capacity. Accordingly the Prime Minister's statement this afternoon was a proper one. He went as far as any responsible leader of a government could go at this point of time in commenting on this issue. Of course the honourable member for Melbourne Ports went much further, but this was understandable. He feels very strongly on this issue but I wish that he had given us something a little more positive if we are to transmit into action some of the suggestions he made.  His  suggestions cannot be implemented by means of discussion of this matter of public importance. Such things cannot be done in a matter of hours, days, weeks or months by the Parliament. This matter will become a question for determination through the processes that are available to operate - for shareholders decisions, for economic factors to apply and, in the long run, for the Government to observe and act upon to the extent that it is permitted to do so by virtue of its powers and responsibilities. 
 The Budget has proved the capacity of the present Government to manage to the best advantage the financial affairs of Australia in a period of world monetary difficulties. In every respect the Budget is evidence of the strong leadership of the nation by the Liberal-Country Party Government to the advantage of all sections of the community. It was nothing but sour grapes, of course, for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to refer to the Budget in a very disparaging way and to be followed by moans from his supporters. Some Australian Labor Party supporters have referred to it as a milk and honey Budget. However, this criticism has failed completely to gain any public support. Likewise, I am sure that the moans of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  to whom we have just listened, have failed to arouse interest in some of the points he tried to make - except, of course, to give us warning of the policies and the attitudes which he supports. 
The Budget is expansionary and will further assist growth and development in Australia. According to the preliminary national accounts estimates, the gross national product grew by 9 per cent in 1971-72, but in terms of real growth the increase was due to higher prices. The 
Budget could well produce a 5 per cent real growth rate through new economic growth, without undue heightening of the inflationary pressures, provided the demands of militant unions, urged on by some members of the Opposition, do not inflict greater pressures through extravagant wage claims. 
The strategy of lower income taxation is simply to put more money in the hands of the income earner without the pressure of higher costs which result from increased wages. Consequently the demands of some militant sections of the trade union movement for exhorbitant wage increases should be discouraged in the interests of those concerned as well as of all sections of the work force and the community in general. But will this be the case? Honourable members opposite should do some real soul searching on this issue. 
I am pleased to see the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in the House. To say that the shadow Minister for Labour and National Service proposes and Caucus disposes could well be to state the real position. Recently the honourable member for Hindmarsh denied charges by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that Labor's policy was to put unions above the law where strikes and industrial disputes were concerned. The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that he and a Labor government would be utterly opposed to anything that permitted trade unionists to destroy property or cause injury without being liable to the criminal and civil law.  His  confidence in what a Labor government would do is hardly justified by the rejection of the Labor Caucus of other proposals put forward by the leader of the Australian Labor Party and his shadow Minister for Labour and National Service. For instance, during the pre-election campaign that the Leader of the Australian Labor Party undertook with a great flourish of trumpets recently, the honourable member for Hindmarsh said that Labor's policy on arbitration would provide that unionists who broke a registered agreement would be liable to a fine of $20 a day. But what support did those 2 gentlemen receive from their Party colleagues? I believe that this proposal was unceremoniously rejected by the Caucus when it came before it. 
The real attitude of the Labor Party towards sanctions imposed against unions and unionists was revealed when the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  authorised the payment from public funds of more than $7,000 in court costs awarded against a union secretary. The costs were legally imposed by the South Australian Supreme Court against the secretary of a union which had imposed a black ban on shipments to and from Kangaroo Island. The 'Australian' newspaper commented on this matter at the time. I think its comments are worthy of mention. It wrote: 
The South Australian Government has taken action in a union's interest which it would never have dreamed of launching for the sake of a private individual This amounts to using a government position to safeguard union concerns. 
In other words, one could say that it amounts to using a government position to safeguard a particularly favoured clique. Of course, the honourable member for Hindmarsh has indignantly denied any intention of the Labor Party to put unionists in a special class above the law, but his denial has a very hollow ring in the light of what left wing militants in the union movement have done during the recent industrial disputes that have resulted in turmoil and public concern. The fact that these militants dictate to the Labor Party and ride roughshod over it should be perfectly clear to the community at large. There has been no evidence, either in this House or outside of it, of any attempt by members of the Opposition to urge or recommend to their friends the adoption of a more harmonious attitude to industrial negotiations, particularly to wage claims. Perhaps the recent remarks by  Mr John  Ducker, the Assistant Secretary of the New South Wales Trades and Labor Council, will be taken to heart by some sections of the Opposition. An article in the Sydney Sun' reported  Mr Ducker  as saying: 
Unless we are careful, unless rank and file members become interested, the union scene will become reminiscent of the violent roaring twenties in America. 
The article continued: 

 Mr Ducker said the policy of violence had been advocated in a magazine article by the Secretary of the Builders Labourers Union,  Mr Jack  Mundey. 

 Mr Ducker was also reported as saying: 
The communist takeover of the Builders Labourers Union could be repeated quite easily in other unions. This was a deliberate attempt at intimidation - a policy advocated by the Australian Communist Party. I am not one to kick the communist can but I warn all unionists that communist inspired violence will continue unless they are vigilant. 
Of course, these remarks followed the notorious 38-day strike by plumbers in Sydney. In the recent oil strike we saw an example of the influence exerted by  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr' Halfpenny  - 2 wellknown communists - over union affairs. The point I want to make is that the concern of the Government and ils supporters has been very great in regard to the important matter of the growing influence of communists in the trade union movement of the country. The Australian Labor Party has tried to play down this matter, but it has been exposed in its attempts to cover up the extent of the seriousness of it. I believe that the danger that is inherent in it and its implications for the industrial scene are very real. 
In asking that question the honourable member for Kingston is obviously trying to distract attention from the truth of the matter, particularly from the fact that communist influence was so dominant in what took place during the oil industry strike. The Australian Labor Party would love to sweep this matter right under the carpet. It does not want to have anything to do with it. The Labor Party does not want to face the electors on it. Of course the words of the honourable member for Hindmarsh a few weeks ago were designed deliberately to cover up the real truth of the matter. Of course one cannot but be very concerned. It is not a matter of kicking the communist can. The truth of the matter is that the views of the supporters of the Government who had so seriously looked into this issue, who could see the implications of it  so  crystal clear and who had expressed concern about it have been well and truly vindicated by the occurrences that have taken place since. 
Another honourable member who, I am sure, is very desirous of seeing an extension of all the ills of industrial disruption asks what the Government is doing about it. What we on this side of the House want to know is what those who purport to represent the Australian Labor Party are going to do about it. Because of their associations and affiliations with the people directly involved they are in a position to do something about it. 
The Government showed what it was prepared to do about it. It took the issue to the extreme limit by asking the Parliament to reassemble in order to deal with it Of course those concerned saw what the issues were and very quickly decided that it would be a good thing if they were to sweep the whole problem under the rug. I believe that the economy of the country will be in a perilous situation white there is a persistence of the attitude which has been so evident in this House this afternoon. 
The Budget is intended to produce a climate which will benefit all sections of the community. I wish to refer in particular to the problems of the primary producer and those who are of necessity surviving on fixed incomes. These people are not able to pass on rises in costs. Overseas markets and home consumption markets, which are invariably competitive, usually remain fairly static. In many instances they have remained so for years. Australia cannot alter this situation. But the present Government has worked unceasingly to negotiate better deals wherever possible in trading arrangements and the like. The attitude of the Opposition - the alternative government - is again crystal clear on this matter. Not only has the Leader of the Opposition advocated revaluation but also the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and said that his Leader is right in what he said and supported to the hilt the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for the Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and other members of the Opposition who take the view that there is some merit in undermining the stability of Australia's currency. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had the temerity to say that the Leader of the Australian Country Party had displayed immaturity. What hypocrisy! If there is any immaturity being displayed it is certainly being displayed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
I withdraw the word but I fail to see the point made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. The truth of this matter is that revaluation of the Australian dollar would cause the dollar to be worth a larger amount in overseas currencies and, of course, this carries with it the implication that it would have effects on important sectors of industry. Rural exporters usually have difficulty in increasing the overseas price for farm products such as butter, grains, wool and meat in order to maintain the sales level of earnings in Australian currency. The effect of revaluation on the whole, therefore, would be to reduce the gross income of the farm sector, depending on the sensitive overseas demand and, of course, on prices at ruling world price levels. The future of Australia is still very dependent on the stability and progress of Australian rural industries. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  asks about the costs to rural industries, yet a few moments ago he interjected when the point was made that industrial disruption and strikes in this country were the prime cause of cost rises, as well he knows. The honourable member for Bendigo who is always to be heard in this chamber talking on a certain aspect of education, and the needs of education, denies the truth of this matter. And here he is, coming from a rural electorate, doing exactly the same this afternoon. The Budget provides the second highest level of financial assistance on record for primary industry and includes some new and highly significant provisions for primary producers. The main one is the proposal for a new kind of Commonwealth rural bank to provide long term loans for primary producers. I believe this will be one of the significant features of the term of office of this Government, a government which will go to the people in a very short space of time to seek a mandate for a continuation in office, lt undoubtedly, on the record it will put forward, will receive a resounding majority, much to the dismay of members of the Opposition who would like to believe that they are already on the Treasury bench. 
The Budget, in brief, supplies some very useful features so far as the average member of the community is concerned. I refer to the reduction of income tax by 10 per cent, the increase in the allowance for family dependants as an income tax deduction by $52. The maximum taxable income, affecting 600,000 taxpayers, will be increased from the present $417 to $1,041. This in itself is very significant. In addition, the minimum value of a gift before it is taxable will increase from $4,000 to $10,000 and so the story goes on. Reference was made earlier this afternoon to the increased benefits that have been provided, particularly in social services. It was quite remarkable to hear the Leader of the Opposition say earlier this week that some challenge had been thrown out when the Opposition had proposed the removal of the means test. The challenge had been: Where will the money come from? But he did not for one moment admit that his proposal was to extend over a 6-year period. He is now wanting to say that the Labor Party had proposed this shorter period all the way through. The truth of the matter is that the Government's proposal has run so far ahead of the Opposition's proposal that the Opposition is now searching for something to put in Us place and it is having a pretty hard time finding something worth while which will inspire the thoughts, the hearts and the minds of the people. 
The Budget contains other very advantageous increments to the provisions for housing, health, education, child care and, not the least important, death duty which will benefit the interests of family people both in the primary industry sector and otherwise to a very remarkable extent. This is to say little, of course, of what has been accomplished thus far under this Government in all these fields. The provisions in the Budget are not novel. They are an extension of a positive policy which has proved to be successful and one which the people of this country since the introduction of the Budget 2 weeks ago have recognised very clearly to the point that I have not been able to find one newspaper leader critical in any way at all of the Budget. Again this certainly disappoints the Opposition. 
There are many matters one- would like to refer to when speaking in this House in the Budget debate but time precludes coverage of all matters in which honourable members would be interested. In my remaining few moments I want to mention the importance of the introduction of a proposal to provide $lm for .tourism. This will be of tremendous significance to enhance, in co-operation with' the States, Australia's tourist industry. It is a forward step and one for which a number of honourable members on the Government side have fought for a long period of time. We are all very happy to see this provision included in the Budget; it will be a worthwhile starting point for Commonwealth direct assistance to the tourist industry of this nation. In so many other respects there are progressive moves in this Budget. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who is always so critical in this House is no doubt disappointed to find $2.5m provided for the Eyre Highway. This is again breaking new ground and we will see, as forecast in the Budget, the creation of a new era for the highways of this nation. There will be allocations budget by budget henceforth, to improve, upgrade and assist the development of Australian highways and relieve some of the burden which now falls on local government. In addition the Government will foster decentralisation and do a very worthwhile job on the progress and development of this nation. There is so much to praise in this Budget and so little to criticise. I am proud to be associated with it as a supporter of the Government and am sure that any thinking members of this House will be very hard pressed indeed to find reasons to support the motion moved by the Opposition in criticism of the Budget. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether the Government's trade policy with Mainland China has proved to be highly successful, despite attempts by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable members for Dawson and Riverina to interfere. Have Australian commercial negotiators made record sales to mainland China, not only of wheat but also of sugar and steel? Are many Australian exporters continuing a highly effective series of missions to Mainland China on behalf of Australian industry, with excellent future prospects? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer to the shutdown of the Ampol oil refinery in Brisbane, which is a major supplier of fuel to northern New South Wales and Queensland. 
We have listened to an extraordinary outburst by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who has built up quite a reputation for himself in this place as one who will make utterances without the least bit of evidence, without the least bit of fact and without the least substantiation of what he says. It is a great shame that in matters of this kind the honourable member wishes to mislead the public and in particular his own constituents. I think it can only be deplored. He referred to a loss being incurred in some operations of the Postmaster-General's Department but then cited an incredible profit figure of $200m. One can only guess how he arrives at that figure. My guess is that he wants to construct for his own political ends a coloured account of the position even though it is nothing like that at all. 
The profit referred to in the report of the operations of the Postmaster-General's Department for the year ended 30th June 1972 shows a very sound business result having regard to what happened to the business of the Post Office in the preceding 24 months. There has been an astronom ical rise in wages, and unprecedented industrial disruption has occasioned losses. These had to be taken into account in the budgeting of the Post Office. The provision of service, when considered in relation to actual cost, is well above that of any other similar instrumentality anywhere in the world. Yet the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  criticises the Government in respect of the cost of postage of school magazines and other publications. Of course, these publications are transmitted by the Post Office at a loss. The arrangements made in this field and the creation of certain categories are tremendously advantageous to the organisations that use this service, and it ill becomes the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  to make the kind of criticism that he has made. 
There is no question as to which honourable member I am referring to. I am referring to the honourable member for Sturt. If I inadvertently said 'the honourable member for Angas', I certainly apologise to the honourable member for Angas. 
The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  referred to the aspects of finance and, in particular, made the observation that in his opinion the interest charged to the Post Office was a burden upon the service. Of course, this matter has been debated in this House from time to time over the years. I refer to the report of the Committee that dealt with this matter a few years ago. Its recommendation indicated quite clearly that, from a business point of view and from all other considerations, it was a sound practice. Naturally, it would be very helpful to the operations of the Department if this were removed, but the funds would still have to come from somewhere. They would have to come from the Government or, in other words, from the taxpayer. Of course, if we think in terms of the taxpayer, we are really thinking in terms of the general public who are the users of the Post Office and, if the matter is taken through to its logical conclusion, I think we really end up in exactly the same position. 
The suggestion of a review of the whole financing structure of the Department is something to which no-one would object. If there were to be some worthwhile result from any kind of review in any business undertaking, it is right and proper that this should occur. But there have been quite extensive deliberations by the Estimates Committee in another place. If such an inquiry could elucidate matters and be constructive in nature and could be helpful from an administrative point of view, it is right and proper and should not be criticised. Perhaps in that respect, the honourable member for Macquarie was quite right in making the observation that he did. But he then went on to say that there is need to look at the standards of service that are provided. I believe that a detailed inquiry into the standards of service would disclose that what is being provided today is quite outstanding in terms of comparison with any other similar service. Naturally, costs must be taken into account but on the postal side there is a definite policy of providing service. Of course, this really is the reason for the losses that have occurred year by year in this section of the operation. To criticise the standard of service is to deny the facts as they really exist. 
References have been made to deferred applications. Again, I think the honourable member for Macquarie particularly raised this point. He quoted figures which 1 think should be explained to the House. It is true that the annual report of the Post Office mentioned a total number of deferred applications of 65,396, but of these the actual number of deferments was only 13,250. The number in the course of being connected to the service was 35,459, and this figure is included in the total tally. The number of quotations with the applicants was 12,686 and the number of applications being examined so that a quote could be made tallied 3,974. So, the significant point about these figures is that the number of actual deferments as at 30th June 1972 was more than 1,000 lower than at the same time last year. I think that this figure demonstrates that the Department really is making progress in what is a tremendous job to provide the services that are required in this coun'ty. 
The National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill is the most significant piece of legislation to come before this House in a quarter of a century. It sets a pattern for the future which in years to come will be seen as one of the real landmarks in legislative action by any Federal government, lt follows the announcement in this House on 19th September by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  that action would be taken, lt is the consequence of a very positive approach to Australia's greatest problem. 1 am amazed to find this afternoon the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  leading for the Opposition in this debate, moving an amendment which offers no alternative and produces nothing of substance. Really it is a delaying tactic. Of course he is supported by none other than the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  for whose area there has already been announced by the New South Wales Government a significant proposal of regional development. 
The honourable member for Reid has become a very worried and disappointed man. He had hoped to have his hobby horse to ride for many months and years to come and is frustrated to find that an effective approach is being made in this matter by the Government. We hear the parrot cry: 'After 23 years'. This is sheer humbug and those who utter this cry well know this to be the case, lt has taken a considerable amount of time to investigate and consider the fundamental requirements of legislation of this kind. The report of the Committee of Commonwealth and State officials on decentralisation which was released in this House a few weeks ago spelled out something of the requirements necessary for legislation of this kind to be properly provided. It is sheer humbug to say that the Government has been slow  o:  dilatory in this matter. But, of course, the Opposition in its approach this afternoon shows very clearly that it wants to be obstructionist, that it wants to talk in very airy fairy terms as to what should happen in this country. It does not want to get down to the task of adopting an effective approach. 
The honourable member for Reid talked a whole lot of sheer rot about land, land acquisition and what he would do if - heaven forbid - he ever had the opportunity to experiment. This legislation proposes a definite approach - selective decentralisation - to cope with the problems of urban overdevelopment and the needs of decentralisation. It is based fundamentally on the principles which have been the real means of the development of the city of Canberra. Yet the honourable member for Reid criticises the provisions in the Bill and says they come straight out of the legislation which makes possible the operations of the National Capital Development Commission. Could there be any better basis upon which to begin this great work? Of course there could not, because here we see proven work and development of a kind which is positive, which can be observed, which can be assessed, and which can be the real guidelines for projects of the sort that will occur as a consequence of this legislation. I think that the long dissertation by the honourable member for Reid can be summed up  as  nothing more or less than the expressions of one who has become terribly confused. He is not sure what he wanted to begin with. He is less certain now, and by the end of this debate it is obvious that he will not have the slightest idea of a positive approach  in  this matter. 
Let us take one example of the proposition he put  forward  this afternoon. He spoke at length about immigration. What did he put to us? He said that immigration should be a fundamental aspect of the proposals that are implemented. Of course it will be  under  this Government's immigration policy. But could it be under the policy of the Opposition? In relation to immigration the Opposition has put forward a proposal that existing dwellers in this country will nominate newcomers on a relative basis. Where do these people live at the present time? They live in the overcrowded cities. Does the honourable member for Reid want to perpetuate the overcrowded cities by bringing together the fundamentals of the existing Opposition immigration policy and then adding this proposition? What sheer humbug and rot. This is the kind of slant we will find the whole way through in the Opposition's approach to this important matter. 
The Bill makes provision for a ministerial council - for a proper approach administratively to enable effective national urban and regional development. The Country 
Party, of course, has spent a lot of time and a lot of effort and has shown real initiative in relation to this matter over the years. First of all, let us look at the State arena. New South Wales can be quoted as the pace setter in this important matter. What has been accomplished in New South Wales since Labor lost office in 1964 demonstrates very clearly who cares about regional development and decentralisation and who failed to care about it in the years preceding that time. Yet the honourable member for Macquarie this afternoon attempted to create a division between the State and the Commonwealth in relation to this important matter. I think it ill behoves the honourable member whose own area already has been named as one part of New South Wales that will receive benefits from a positive approach to decentralisation. It is true that the State itself has moved in this matter and it is true also that this legislation has not yet passed through this House. The provision for a selection of growth centres, as is envisaged by this legislation, is not yet effective. It is quite right and proper for New South Wales to have taken the action it has taken, but for it to be criticised or for expressions of opinion from that State to be misquoted against the Commonwealth is, of course, just mischief making, and the honourable member for Macquarie well knows it, as does the honourable member for Reid. 1 think the height of folly is to be seen in the utterances of the honourable member for Macquarie who said that this Government was equivocating in this matter. What are we doing this afternoon? We are putting this Bill through the House of Representatives. Is that equivocation? But what does the honourable member for Reid want to do? He wants the Bill withdrawn and something else brought in. Goodness knows how long that would take and goodness knows what else the honourable member wants to put into it to delay, to frustrate and, of course, to interfere with a very positive approach that this Government is sponsoring - an approach which is the result of a great deal of work by authorities which have the capacity and the means to know what they are talking about and what they are putting forward. The Government has indicated already that  Sir John  Overall will lead the authority that will go to work in this important matter. Is there any Australian who could be seen as a man of greater capacity in this field? Of course there is not. But I would be quite certain that if the honourable member for Reid had his way it would not be  Sir John  Overall who would take charge of the formative stages of the work that will flow from the measure that is now before the House. 
We have heard all sorts of suggestions about transport corridors between Melbourne and Sydney, between Sydney and Brisbane, between Perth and Bunbury, as well as many other centres which were cited by the honourable member for Reid. To make an assessment of the cost of the proposed transport corridors alone indicates, I think, just how clumsy is the approach of the Opposition in this matter. On the other hand, the Government is offering a proposition which envisages a continuation of the existing procedures for decentralisation within the States, lt is a very valuable contribution to maintaining and building up country populations, and then it adds to it the important element of growth centres. After considering the experiences of other countries, after considering investigations carried out overseas, and after a great deal of thought, it is obvious that the designated growth centres are the only real way to accomplish positive decentralisation. They would not be the consequence of the construction of transport corridors; they would not be the consequence of some airy fairy idea about land acquisition; but they would be the consequence of positive investigations related to natural resources and the suitability of particular areas in terms of potential. This is the only way, as has been indicated, to achieve selective decentralisation and to create a growth pattern in a designated centre that will produce the kind of balance that must be brought into the future development of the population and its spread in this country. 
To take my own State of New South Wales as an example, there is already the proposition for the development of the Bathurst-Orange district. There is also a great deal of interest in Albury-Wodonga. It is fair to assume that the north coast of New South Wales would be appropriate as a third centre. Of course, it does receive a great deal of favourable comment as an area with natural resources such as water, power and location. It has all of the other requirements when one thinks in terms of a population centre basically, say, of 50,000 which would then have the normal growth factors to enable it to do just as the city of Canberra has done, namely, to go on from that basic concept, once established, to become self-generating and to reach proportions of 175,000 people as we have in Canberra today, and so on. This is a real approach to a serious problem. It is a sound and practical approach. There is not one thing in this Bill before the House which is not a means of creating the initial moves that accord with the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  which accord with the reports which have been presented to this House and which are practical in every respect. The Opposition would throw these proposals overboard and replace them with some socialistic approach - that is all it could be described as - under which land is first acquired, development is directed and all sorts of other impositions applied. Would that attract free enterprise? Would that attract finance? If this were the approach would it attract people? Of course it would not. 
The typical socialist line runs through what has been said this afternoon by those Opposition members who have spoken so far. The honourable member who follows me can have his chance of commenting on this aspect of what is a very important national matter. I believe that the Bill is adequate and requires no alteration. The amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  will be thrown out by this House as it deserves to be. I am sorry that he will be disappointed but in the circumstances there is just no alternative to the Government's approach. I venture to say that if the honourable member for Reid were to think a little more carefully about what he has put today he would realise that he has tried to embody so much in his proposition that it has become cumbersome and unworkable and it would not produce an effective result in any single direction. 
He wants to have all the planning carried out first and to have some grandiose scheme for the whole of Australia to try to change completely the whole pattern of administration in State and local government as well as in the Commonwealth Government - to completely change the pattern of every aspect of commerce, industry and community development as we know it and replace with a rigid, planned scheme. Of course, this is the very thing that, when attempted in other countries, has been a dismal failure. He might well know that in northern Italy this kind of approach was adopted and the scheme failed. He might well examine the attempts to create satellite cities in the United States of America. One is not far from Washington but the results there certainly were not spectacular. He might also consider the New Towns approach in the United Kingdom. After the war bomb damaged areas in certain locations were not, under government regulation, allowed to be rebuilt. New towns were developed. If he studies these things he will find that the consequence of attempting to do the sort of thing that he has advocated this afternoon is a eomplete failure. This is why this Bill makes provision to avoid those dangers and pitfalls in this projected scheme of urban development and decentralisation and proposes an approach which envisages selective decentralisation on lines that will avoid well known problems that can arise. I put it to the House that these are the things that the Opposition has failed to study and take heed of because if it had its way it would create for Australia an unworkable approach to the nation's greatest need of the 1970s, a need which will extend to the year 2000 and beyond. This Government will not fall into that trap. I commend the Bill. I believe it to be the anly positive approach. I deprecate the Opposition amendment. 
 The estimates on this occasion are perhaps more significant than has been the case for very many years. This is because of the tremendous forward movement that has been made in the provision of social service benefits. I am surprised to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  criticising the provisions in relation to TPI pensioners because really the facts are that the beneficiaries in this field are, on an average, at least $500 better off than they were before the Budget provisions, and the administrative measures being taken by the Repatriation Department, I believe, are so designed as to give people in this category tremendous advantages. Yet the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came into this House and used the words 'pensioners deprived of benefits'. 
The honourable member who interjects asks whether I think they have been. I just repeat that the average recipient is $500 better off. The majority of these people, in any event, have been contributing to hospital benefits. A realistic assessment of the situation in respect of those 3,250 persons simply discloses that they have been advantaged tremendously by the provisions of the Budget. Yet there are those who want to mislead them, who want to occasion concern in their minds, rather than to explain to them the real facts of the matter. This seems to me to be a great shame. Here we have benefits of an extreme nature being provided and yet the inference that is being conveyed is that this is not the case. In respect of social service benefits generally, it is a tremendous step forward that an additional 75,000 people are able to obtain pensions for the first time. When we examine some of the details relative to what is now attainable by the average citizen who comes within the pensioner category in terms of age and the other qualifications, it is a tremendous advantage. 
I believe that it is the responsibility of every member of this House to explain the details of these new provisions to his constituents. In the administration of both of these departments there is a vast network of regional offices. Department of Social Services officers visit country districts, and officers of the Repatriation Department visit the suburbs. This goes a long way towards informing the average citizen of his rights to the additional benefits to which he is entitled. However,  every  member of this House can assist in this task of informing people, and I believe it is his responsibility to do so. Opposition members have criticised the new provisions but I guarantee that when they are dealing with constituents in their electorates they tell them what good fellows they are and that they are helping them to get a benefit of one kind or another. They are not criticial then because they want to take credit for what this Government has done. Let them be fair and honest and tell the right story the whole way through. 
Many more social service benefits have been provided under the new legislation. I believe that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  deserves a great deal of acclaim for what he has done to benefit the pensioner section of the Australian community. I mention just one aspect of the new provisions which perhaps has not had the emphasis of some other aspects. I refer to the scheme which has been introduced as from 1st March this year to enable a benefit to be paid to relatives caring for chronically ill aged people. This is a benefit of $14 a week. It is just one instance of the liberal assistance that is becoming available concerning which too little is being said and too little is being done by way of acknowledgment of it. In the full field of benefits that have been provided there is an amazing range of new advantages for people in existing categories. I think, of course, of the situation of those on superannuation. Perhaps a point can be emphasised here. The pamphlets issued refer to the new benefit being available from 22nd February next. Those who want to be critical have tended to say: 'Oh, it is not going to start until then'. But the facts are that those people who may benefit by these new provisions have been invited to lodge their applications now. This will enable the benefit to be payable retrospective to the date of the application, although the payment will not be made until 22nd February next. 
It is obvious that a great deal of publicity, of explanation and of genuine assistance is necessary to enable the average person in the street to become familiar with and aware of the additional benefits that are available from the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department. I believe that the media could do a little more in this direction. It is so easy to see headlines criticising or misleading. We have seen this in the case of the matter referred to earlier by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  where people have been almost convinced that they have lost something when, in fact, a tremendous step forward has been taken. I commend both Ministers for their contributions in this field. I am sure that a tremendous number of grateful Australians are really appreciative of what has been done. 
 We have just listened to the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  express himself in terms which showed the real dilemma facing members of the Opposition in deciding how to deal effectively with the debate on this important measure. 
On the one hand he criticised- 
I refer to the statement made by the Treasurer in December last when he said there would be no difficulty in the Treasury finding funds to finance commitments being announced by the new Government. I ask the Treasurer: What is the total expenditure, additional to the 1972-73 Budget provisions, to which the Government is now committed since taking office? 
The Country Party supports the amendment before the House. We believe that the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  - and the amendment which followed - gives the opportunity for a proper study to be made of an obviously important question to be determined by this Parliament. A modern approach in this day and age to the transmission to the electorate of what occurs in this chamber and in the other place is a responsibility of this Parliament. When one is mindful of the fact that today world events become the privilege, from the point of view of observation and interest, of so many citizens in so many countries almost instantly when they occur, it is right and proper that we should look very seriously at this matter. But, of course, all the vital considerations must be taken into account. The terms of the original motion and the amendment make adequate provision for this to be done. It would be unthinkable that we should introduce willy-nilly a means of communicating the proceedings of Parliament and, in so doing, distort them and give a wrong construction. This could quite easily occur unless great care is taken, first of all, to devise an approach to the means of transmission and then to consider the aspects that this in its wake will create. 
Previous speakers have referred to the almost inescapable requirement to change 2 essential things - the venue, which is of course the very nature of this chamber and undoubtedly the chamber of the other place, and the procedures. I believe that these 2 matters would require very careful study. I hope that the Joint Statutory Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings - assuming that it will undertake this task - will call before it people concerned in both of these fields. They are very important considerations. I believe that it would be wrong for the committee to present a report which in the first place had not given an opportunity for participation by other related committees. I refer to the Standing Orders Committee, the House Committee and, perhaps, the Privileges Committee. In considering the import of this whole matter there is a range of vital ingredients to be considered. Of course, overseas study would be another essential aspect. Any honourable member who has visited the House of Commons, the Capitol in Washington or the more modern and more recently constructed venues of parliament in other countries, would think twice before believing that the procedures and venue of this Parliament can be very quickly changed. 
The Westminister system is one which we cherish and which I am sure we will want to preserve. We will not want to turn the House into an arena for some other kind of parliamentary procedure, which could quite easily be a very compelling requirement if television were suddenly to be intruded into the chamber without the depth of consideration and planning that would avoid these kinds of pitfalls which could drastically affect the effectiveness and the operation of Parliament. If one thinks of the kind of reactions that would come from the public it would be right and proper that the fundamentals of transmission should be taken into account. I suppose it is no shock or surprise to visitors who come to this chamber, sit in the gallery and look down, when they observe a very different scene from that which they had seen in their minds' eye as being the operation of the national Parliament. Constituents from my own electorate have come to me and said: We were in Canberra and we sat in the gallery. Do they always carry on like that?' Probably Parliament was in session as it is now. Unless people have information which gives them the reason for the particular stage of the proceedings they are watching, information which describes to them the necessity of it or the relative factors concerning the whole of the business paper of the day, or the business of the session - or whatever it might be - they can easily get a very distorted and unfortunate picture of what happens in the national Parliament. 
I am not suggesting that television would be so manipulated that we would get a certain type of picture transmitted out of this place. However, I think that aspect is very important. For that reason I am interested in what has been said about experiments with closed circuit television in the House of Commons. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  referred to the operation of television in some 20 other Parliaments around the world. I am sure that honourable members will be interested to receive more information on this. Having seen the House of Commons in operation it occurs to me that even it presents a more readily acceptable and usable style than this chamber. There are many differences such as the very layout of the chamber, the very nature of the way in which the business proceeds and the fact that at question time there is a series of questions on notice as distinct from our own pattern of procedure of questions without notice. If we were to experiment with closed circuit television as a preliminary it could be a very useful thing in upgrading the efficiency of this House and the Senate. 
It is not very long ago that members did not have the privilege of a  speaker  transmitting the proceedings of the chamber into their own rooms in this House. Many of us brought our transistor radios and listened to them on the day that the proceedings of this House were on the air and sometimes listened to the other place when it was on the air, and we were able to derive benefit from this by being able to keep in touch with the chamber whilst attending to other important parliamentary duties. But it took a long time for the establishment to recognise that the transmitting of proceedings to members rooms was a useful thing. The old argument was that if this type of facility was installed in members' rooms it would tend to encourage them to leave the chamber and go back to their own rooms. 1 do not think there has been the slightest difference in the attendance in the chamber since the introduction of speakers into members' rooms as against the prior period when this facility was not provided. 
Thinking in terms of closed circuit television, one can imagine some efficiency to the point where Party rooms, committee rooms and the like were placed within a closed circuit facility relaying events from the chamber. This would be of tremendous value. It would give an opportunity for members to keep more closely in touch with the affairs being dealt with all the time, but to make this facility effective there are many matters that could be updated. For example, it would be no problem to have as a caption on a closed circuit screen a fixed identification of the business before the House - such and such a Bill or debate or whatever it might be - so that members within Parliament House itself but not in the chamber could instantly know the stage of progress, what was before the House, who was speaking and that sort of thing. I believe that if we were to aproach this matter in this way we would begin to produce an effective basis on which the whole matter of transmission outside the House could become a greater prospect, with a taking into account of ways and means of doing it effectively. Therefore I suggest that the Committee look very closely in the first place at some experimentation with closed circuit television within Parliament House itself.  I  believe this would be one way of overcoming the impediment I mentioned a moment ago - that members who come into this chamber for a short time are mystified as (o what is really going on. They may have whispered to them by an attendant, or they may inquire, what is before the House. It is fairly meaningless unless other details are readily conveyed to them. 1 think the House of Commons, for example, has another aparatus that is very useful, that is, an electric device by which the matter before the House can be read in various places, in passageways and in rooms around the building. This of course is a first step toward a closed circuit information system, if I may use that terminology. 
I shall move on quickly because I know there are other speakers who will want to make a contribution. The last thing we want to do is denigrate Parliament. It has been suggested that in the early days of the House of Commons at Westminster even the Press was excluded, and no doubt there was a reason. I venture to suggest that in those early days there were .not printing presses of the type we have now. There were not the means of getting out quickly to the outside world a full account of Parliament. Times changed. Then it became a matter of the morning Press being able to carry a full account. If we think in terms of the beginning of this Parliament, the morning Press certainly carried a much fuller account than we get today. The old style of recording proceedings almost as Hansard does for newspaper purposes was the approach of that era. That era of course has passed and we have reached the stage where a very different approach is made by the media  -  I refer to the Press, the radio and television - to the reporting of proceedings. Of course in more recent times the use of studios located in Canberra where interviews take place within a very short time of events in this House has drastically changed the way in which , the public is able to learn of events and occurrences in this 
House. This is progress and we must keep pace with it. 
I  strongly  support the proposition that a committee should look closely at all aspects. I hope that there will be a basis on which there can be a safe progression to a direct transmission of the affairs of the nation as conducted in this chamber - not a distorted one, not a slanted one, not one that would be misleading, but one that would be fair and honest both to the nation, which after all will have to put up with it if it is to see Parliament on television, and to this House, where impartiality has always been a byword and where members would like to see fair play and justice in every direction. 
The Australian Country Party supports the Bill before the House and does so because it believes that the assistance which the Bill proposes for Papua New Guinea is a correct approach. Of course, we are dealing with this measure at a time which precedes selfgovernment for Papua New Guinea. We are providing for a financial arrangement which will carry over after that date. I believe that this is right and proper. Australia's part in international aid is well known, but I believe that there is a very great need for every Australian to recognise our special interest in Papua New Guinea. Of course, that special interest will be all the more important to Australia and to Papua New Guinea after self-government. For this reason I believe that this guarantee must be regarded as an indication of Australia's intentions. For that reason alone it deserves the support of this Parliament and of the- Australian nation. 
It has long been a part of the policy of this side of the House to support the economic development of Papua New Guinea. In fact, the 2 previous Ministers for External Territories, the Honourable C. E. . Barnes and the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  I believe set a very good pattern in this regard. They set a basis which gave confidence for development in Papua New Guinea both in the government sector and in the private sector. In respect of private investment, there has been a tremendous forward movement. Without this it would be very hard to foresee political development and ultimate self-government succeed. Other countries which have attempted to rush into self-government without considering the important ingredients of economic stability have failed miserably. We do not want to see that happen in Papua New Guinea. 
There has been some reference in this debate to certain matters relating to the future of civil aviation in Papua New Guinea. I hope there will be no clumsy approach in this direction. I was very disturbed to read some of the statements made in the last week or so. Australia has played a part second to none in comparison to any other country's assistance to a developing section of Asia. The section to which I refer, of course, is Papua New Guinea. If one compares Australia's action to what has been done in any other part of the Asian region I think that Australia's record stands out very clearly as one of success and one of which we as a nation can be very proud. But we need to be careful that we do not occasion the kind of reactions which we saw occur in the statements made outside Parliament in the last week or so in the matter of the future of civil aviation in this area. You,  Mr Speaker,  have requested that we should not deal with this matter directly and 1 certainly will not transgress your ruling in this regard. But I want to make the observation that the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  has said that this is a delicate matter. I see no reason for it to be a delicate matter. I believe that it is clear cut and it is one which should have been resolved without the need for drama. 
The Bill quite clearly indicates that the proposed loan is for the purpose of the Government of Papua New Guinea financing public works and services. It was said last week that the Government of Papua New Guinea may be required to meet the full responsibility for airports and civil aviation. I will say no more than that. I shall relate the remainder of my remarks to the matters of public works and services. It is obvious that in the immediate future, if we are to see a satisfactory economic development, a considerable expansion in the expenditure on works and services will be necessary. This will apply to transport and to the general services, no matter what they are, that are administered by the Government of Papua New Guinea. A Budget of something in excess of $200m is not very big. The 1971- 72 Budget of Papua New Guinea was $208m of which Australia provided $36m and in the same year it provided loan assistance of $10m. Papua New Guinea's Budget last year was slightly larger. When we add that assistance to the support we are giving to the extent of $A14.3m it comes to a considerable sum of money. But let us look at the expenditure requirements. For example, the cost of works on the Southern Highlands Highway is something like $21m. Other propositions for expenditure on roads range from single projects involving $3m to smaller projects which do not involve less significant amounts. The requirement for the maintenance of transport is something like $18m. That is merely to maintain existing communications. There is a requirement of $15.6m for the maintenance of roads and bridges. The power generation requirement amounts to $24m. I think those figures indicate the kind of basic expenditure that is necessary in the government sector to provide a basis for a continuation of the economic development that is rapidly occurring in Papua New Guinea. I am sure that this Parliament will fully support this objective. 
Reference was made by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  to what he mysteriously described as some possibility of revaluation or devaluation at some future obscure time. The honourable member went on to advocate that a country such as Papua New Guinea should undertake devaluation. I would hope that the honourable member's philosophy will not be the one that is followed by those who have the responsibility of looking after the interests of Papua New Guinea in the immediate future. There are problems enough without creating them and certainly devaluation would be following a philosophy that brings in its wake all of the miserable things of the underdeveloped world that we do not want to see happen in Papua New Guinea. The suggestion that what goes on in the People's Republic of China could be followed in Papua New Guinea leaves one wondering where the basic philosophy on the other side of the House is coming from these days. Certainly we want none of it in Papua New Guinea. I believe that thinking people will see clearly that the existing standards can be maintained and that with proper leadership Papua New Guinea will not find itself engulfed in the kind of difficulties that have confronted other similar regions in the world. 
Likewise there is a need on the part of Papua New Guinea and the present Australian Government to be mindful of what might, be described as the 'risk of overindulgence' in the field of investment which is allowed into that country from outside. I read figures yesterday which I will quote. I am not able to substantiate them but I believe that they are figures that are worthy of debate in this House and perhaps they could be clarified at some future time. The information given was that 2 years ago Japanese investment in Papua New Guinea stood at $2m and that today it stands at $3 5m. If this is correct I believe it indicates 2 things: First of all there is a near takeover of certain industries justification for it. Secondly, that perhaps there is justification for having a look at how it can be farmed out to greater advantage. Certainly the assistance given by the Japanese must be acknowledged but we want to be sure that a situation does not arise in which there is a near takeover of certain industries or certain enterprises. This would be a bad thing for the Territory if it were allowed to run at too strong a rate in a manner that would subsequently create a backwash. 
Of course, the important consideration is the earning capacity of whatever industry and development takes place and the benefits that flow from that earning capacity within the country. In other words, I refer to the employment levels and the standard of employment or to use another descriptive term, the 'rate of pay' for those who are employed. I am not talking about individual pay rates. I am talking about the number of people employed and what it means to a community because at this stage of development the important considerations are the numbers and the spread of employment rather than individual standards. Individual standards must be considered in terms of a basic aspect of the matter. But today in Papua New Guinea there are hundreds of thousands of able bodied people who are keen and anxious to enter into employment. Whatever we do in the government sector or in the private sector in respect of employment must have as its objective that as many people as possible get the benefit so that there is a greater level of useful employment. This is the key for the future of Papua New Guinea. I support the Bill before the House and I hope that this will only be the forerunner of many things that we will do in this Parliament to assist the development of Papua New Guinea. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of his reply yesterday contradicting his earlier answer on the granting of a visa to  Mr K.  T. Li, will the Government accept as binding all future representations from the People's Republic of China even when, as in this instance, they conflict with the publicly expressed position of the Australian Government? Will this in future apply in all fields of foreign affairs? Further, will the Prime Minister explain why he allows the People's Republic of China to dictate to Australia in matters of this kind? Has he noticed that similar attitudes are not imposed on the United States by the People's Republic of China? 
I support the amendments moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I believe that the alteration proposed is absolutely necessary to fulfil the real intentions expressed by honourable members on both sides of the Committee. It is extraordinary that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  can say what he said. One can only be left with the clear thought that he has not read the Bill. It was the intention of the former Government to amend the Australian National Airlines Act so that Trans-Australia Airlines would be able to engage in activities that were closely related to its airline activities, and the Opposition still wishes that to occur. The Opposition parties want to ensure that the opportunities that are available to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd are equally available to Trans-Australia Airlines. The 2 airlines should be free to compete with each other and have equality of access to the opportunities available. We want the 2-airline system to be competitive in all aspects, and we believe that the Australian people want the airline system to operate in this way. But I have listened this afternoon to propositions put forward, first by the Minister and then supported by speakers on the Government side, which run contrary to this. 
The Bill could effectively undermine the 2- airline agreement so that TAA could become the sole operator. One does not need to be of great ability to look clearly at the Bill before us and to become convinced on this point, but on the Government side there seems to be a complete denial of the real facts, the real intentions of this legislation. I think it was the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who said that he wanted to see a competitive situation with the 2 airlines com peting on equal terms. Obviously he has not read the Bill because the provisions of the Bill go far beyond this and they give specific rights to Trans-Australia Airlines that are not being provided for Ansett Transport Industries. I think the sooner the Parliament recognises this the better. Undoubtedly there are those on the Government side who well know this to be the position but they are trying to hoodwink the people who might be listening to this debate, and they certainly want to pull the wool over the eyes of unsuspecting people on this issue. 
I do not have a single share in Ansett Transport Industries. That is not the issue. The amendment foreshadowed by the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation is an admission of guilt that he came into this Parliament with a Bill, that he took it to the second reading stage and that he was trying very shrewdly to put something over this Parliament. I think that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  very effectively exploded that situation this afternoon. The foreshadowed amendment does nothing to correct the imbalance which we find in this legislation so far as the 2- airline agreement is concerned. It is patently clear that TAA could become the Government's weapon in an attack on free enterprise. This, I am sure, will be clearly recognised by the people of Australia. Let me repeat that members of the Australian Country Party and members of the Liberal Party want to see a competitive situation with the 2 airlines competing on equal terms but we are diametrically opposed to a situation in which exclusive opportunities will be given to Trans-Australia Airlines. That is what this legislation does, and the foreshadowed amendment certainly does not remove that impediment in the legislation. 
Therefore the amendments already before this Committee - those proposed by the honourable member for Gippsland - are the first step in the direction of correcting a very serious imbalance, in fact, a denial of real justice in this matter, and the other foreshadowed amendments that would follow would, of course, serve the purpose, of correcting this very iniquitous legislation. I hope that the Committee will see clearly the difference between the 2 propositions we are considering. If it was the intention of the Bill only to equalise opportunities available to the 2 airlines, the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to ensure that this and this only is what is done. I challenge the Minister to do just that because I believe that that is what is required. As I said a moment ago, that stage can be reached by dealing with each of the amendments that have been moved by the honourable member foi Gippsland. The other proposition put forward by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  which proposes that the House decline to give the Bill a second reading, would also give us the same opportunity to ensure that this very unjust legislation is not proceeded with. lt is interesting that the Minister at this early stage of Committee consideration is not really coming forward with an answer. I am wondering whether he is having some second thoughts about the legislation, and perhaps this Parliament might learn a little later in the course of this Committee consideration his real attitude. We have seen him shift his ground once already this afternoon, but there is certainty justification for him to shift his ground a great deal further if he is to avoid a situation in which he and his Government will stand guilty of putting before this Parliament propositions which they have not clearly owned up to, propositions which, by a series of fairly obscure comments by back bench members, they have attempted to camouflage but which they have not succeeded in camouflaging. 
The Bill as it stands would specifically exclude TAA from the responsibility of paying certain State charges. It would exclude it from the responsibility of many of the requirements of the existing commercial enterprise of Ansett Transport Industries in the operations in which it is engaged. I believe that this would be completely unfair competition. If the Bill proceeds as proposed it will leave this totally imbalanced situation, a situation that really would be intolerable as far as the continuation of the 2-airline agreement is concerned. I think that is the fundamental consideration. The first amendment before the Committee, I believe, brings to the light of day very clearly the one fundamental consideration that what we do today must ensure that we preserve the 2-airline agreement. If by virtue of this legislation we in fact wrecked the 2-airline agreement, what would be the outcome? It is obvious that we would end up with a government controlled one-airline system in this country. We would end up with a monopoly, not in the hands of free enterprise but in the hands of the Airlines Commission. This would be a retrograde step for Australia. I think that honourable members on both sides of the chamber have taken some pride in what has been built up under the 2-airline system. Let us not destroy it today. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it true, as has been reported, that a foreign company, the East Asiatic Co. Ltd, has obtained a controlling interest in the timber company Kauri Holding Ltd despite offers by the Australian firm A. V. Jennings Industries (Australia) Ltd to buy the offered shares at the equivalent price to that paid by East Asiatic? Did the Treasurer or the Department of the Treasury approve this transaction as was stated by the parties concerned? If so, will the Treasurer say how this approval is to be reconciled with the Government's alleged concern to keep Australian companies out of foreign hands? 
The Australian Country Party supports Social Services Bill (No. 3). In fact, it is very strongly in favour of the benefits that will be given to supporting mothers. I think that the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  detailed this matter adequately. There are, however, one or two aspects of the legislation which I think should be mentioned and to which I would like to draw the attention of the Minister. Firstly, I refer to the problem that can arise in the case of people referred to as unmarried mothers. The term in simplicity of course would seem quite all right, but the wording continues: including deserted de facto wives and de facto wives of prisoners'. I think that these areas of need must be recognised. But there is equally a need to protect sections of the community that can perhaps be nurtured in a way detrimental to their interests and to the interests of the whole community in which they live. 
I want to refer to a case in my electorate of a very young unmarried Aborigine who now has given birth to her eighth child. There has been concern in the local community where this person lives as well as in the local hospital. Concern has also been expressed by local welfare workers and a host of other people. I think that by citing this one instance I might suggest to the Minister that care should be taken to ensure that whilst on the one band we are extending a necessary benefit, on the other hand we must try to devise some mechanism that will ensure that advantage is not taken by people in a certain category, and I am not in any way implying that I want to place some people in one category and others in another category. But I believe that there is an inherent problem that there will be those who can see an opportunity to gain by merely taking advantage of what we provide by way of a special benefit. 
I think that what I have said is sufficient to draw attention to this problem without dwelling upon it or laying emphasis on it, which is perhaps an equally wrong thing to do in this Parliament. It is a matter which I might submit to the Minister in more detail in writing. The other provisions which we are dealing with I think are timely. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  raised the matter of the widower and I think that this is worthy of some consideration. Perhaps if the Minister is not able to see his way clear to support immediately the amendment that will be introduced by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  this afternoon he could indicate to the House that serious consideration will be given to the amendment when the Bill comes before the other place. In one way or the other this very vexed question is perhaps deserving of more consideration than some of the other matters that have been raised. Like other honourable members, I have had widowed constituents coming along to me with their problems and showing quite clearly the difficulties they encounter in caring for a large family. I have been unable to secure the benefits that those constituents received to which they were entitled. There is a real disparity between a supporting widow and the situation that exists in the case of a widow. 
I think the other machinery proposals - concessions for radio broadcasting licences and television viewers' licences - are matters which should normally apply in cases of this kind. Therefore we support them without question. The provisions of hearing aids to an added bracket of beneficiaries is a very worthy measure. I am sure that those honourable members who have had approaches from their constituents on this matter have found from time to time that they are in fringe areas excluded from the existing legislation and that there is a great need to extend the legislation. I am pleased to see this action being taken. 
The Australian Country Party supports the opposition expressed by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to the proposed clause in its present form. I think that the view he expressed certainly must be considered. I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who is in charge of the Bill, and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  will seriously consider the consequences of the clause now before the Committee. I believe that what they have failed to put to this Parliament thus far is any intimation of the system or manner in which determinations of a region will be made. In its present form the terminology does not reflect a relationship to existing statutory or nonstatutory bodies in the States. It is therefore patently clear that there will be created regions embodying groups of councils or existing authorities. Is is for this reason that the Australian Country Party is very concerned that there should be a circumstance in which, through regulations prescribed, this matter will come back to Parliament for some kind of sanction and scrutiny. If we do not have that provision we will have put on the statute book a circumstance in which the Minister will implement, after assent is given to the Bill, a situation by which regions or groups will be created for the purpose of obtaining benefits to be provided under this legislation. I believe that it is contrary to all the best principles of government for this to be done without reference to this Parliament. 
One can foresee immediately tremendous problems of parochialism in local government areas. One can see immediately the disabilities that could arise and the political implications of those disabilities. I just want to say to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development that I think they fail to recognise the problem that they will have on their plate in this matter. I do not think it is a question of the Opposition saying that this is a back-door method. I do not want to use extreme words at all. 1 just want to talk about the practicalities of how a matter of this kind should in fact be administered. I am certain that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has not had the kind of experience that many of us have had in local government and in areas where there is the disability of parochialism and the disability of a means of effective assessment of the facts in relation to what is required in a region or within a group of councils. 
The remarks of the honourable member for Parramatta about what is a sound practice have application here. But there are also very practical reasons for serious consideration being given to the propositions put forward in the Government's amendment and in the amendment foreshadowed by the honourable member for Parramatta. I hope that this is the way in which this matter will be approached. 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the question asked earlier by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. I refer to the references made to previous visits to the United States by  Sir Robert  Menzies and the Prime Minister's comment in which he said that he did not make arrangements very long ahead. I ask the Prime Minister: Will he now cease acting like a bull in a china shop and follow longestablished protocol in accord with proper diplomatic approaches in this matter in order to avoid unnecessary embarrassment to Australia and the United States of America? Will he make appropriate public statements as arrangements and negotiations for his visit proceed? 
 The Country Party strongly supports the appointment of this committee. It is a forward step to broaden the terms of reference and consequently the work of this committee from the terms of reference of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation which operated in the last Parliament. The Country Party is very concerned about general matters of conservation. I am sure that the committee will have the opportunity of observing, assessing and reporting upon those broader matters. I have in mind the important consideration of the expansion of water conservation and the bearing this will have on conservation in all its concepts. This is a vital requirement for the future of Australia. There are many incidental matters and I look forward to this committee being one of the effective committees of this House - a committee that will have as its objective the important consideration of Australia being regarded as a young country in which actions can be taken early enough to avoid the catastrophes that have occurred in the past not only on this continent but also on others where conservation measures have been taken far too late. Of course, there must be a balance between practical considerations and those that are purely theoretical. I hope that that balance will be an important feature of the work of this committee. 
I think it is true to say that today there is no more sensitive area than conservation, and the environment. 
These issues are very much a matter of public concern and they require the scrutiny of a committee that can look effectively into them. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who spoke before me in this debate, referred to wild ducks in northern Victoria. I have a special interest in wildlife and I am reminded of what happened a few years ago in respect of the protection- of kangaroos in New South Wales. The then Chief Secretary of that State,  Mr Evatt,  issued a regulation stating that in a particular season only male kangaroos could be shot. I recall the great difficulty of those who could obtain a licence to shoot kangaroos in discovering which were the males. It was a little difficult to sneak up and lift the kangaroo's tail to ascertain the sex of the animal before aiming a shot. This is one of the stories of the past. However, whether we are thinking of wild ducks or kangaroos, such stories highlight the importance of a practical approach and the importance of this national Parliament having an opportunity of participating in this important matter, exerting a real influence and coming up with recommendations which I trust will be of great value to posterity. 
Practically every cut-back in expenditure under the Budget has been at the expense of country communities. The Budget has turned out to be sectional and it is loaded with inconsistencies. Worst of all, it confirms the Government's acceptance of a high level of inflation. Primary industry in particular is to be hit by a tremendous drain financially to meet the whims of the Australian Labor Party. In fact, it is no exaggeration to say that the majority of Government members, in both the Cabinet and the Caucus, are gloating over the provisions of- the Budget as they effect country people. Worse still, Labor Party members who represent country areas have proved to be ineffective and without influence in this Government. Country communities have been unfairly treated just at a time when some sections of rural industry are regaining their solvency after disastrous wool prices, low world market returns over a wide field, drought and flood and high costs. 
On today's figures the overall position of primary industry may seem reasonable but debts, costs and future uncertainty cannot be denied. Yet even today in this House the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that farmers were better off according to statistics. He has no real appreciation of the problems, the requirements and the complexities of a viable, productive and efficient primary industry in this country. If he did, the actions that he has taken in this Budget would not be perpetrated on country people. Likewise the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  would not be so brazen as to say, as he did last week, that he was not interested in the producer. He, of course, was referring directly to the primary producer. What is it that makes senior members of the Government so irresponsible? Is it socialist policies? Is it Labor Party philosophy or is it just old-fashioned sectional thinking? Why do they hit hardest at the little man in the country - the small farmer, the small business man in the country town and the less affluent sections of the community? Big cuts are to be made in the support to small farmers. Increased costs are being foisted on all farmers. Food prices have increased in the past few months and the effect of this Budget will be to force those costs even higher. 
The Government has failed to encourage rural production at a time when it is obviously necessary and that is now, at this present time. Productive industries have been singled out and have been viciously disadvantaged in the Budget. The Government has recklessly slashed rural reconstruction funds, the butter and cheese bounty, free school milk, and taxation incentives for primary industry, and has imposed an export tax on meat to pay for health measures in the form of livestock testing for brucellosis and tuberculosis. It has imposed an export tax on meat to pay for inspection services. Why should this tax be imposed on the meat industry and not on other industries and community services which involve inspections and like precautions for both exporting and importing? Fuel will be dearer and country prices will rise by up to 7c a gallon. Telephone installation costs will rise and rentals will increase except in the cities. Postage concessions are being abolished and the main brunt of the resultant increases will fall on country communities. Aviation charges will rise and will force up air fares. 
A wide range of indirect charges will hit the community with severe effects. On the other hand, city transport is to be given a big Commonwealth subvention. Yet the cost of metropolitan transport continues to fall heavily upon all taxpayers. Sydney, for example, will have a public transport deficit of more than $lm this year. However, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and particularly the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  have said, in all seriousness, that until now country people have been given concessions at the expense of the city people and that those concessions should be brought to an end. What hypocrisy! They fail to recognise where the big money goes in the form of subentions and financial assistance to the cities and, of course, that is just how they want it. The truth is that the Government on its own admission is making the country resident pay. He will receive no concessions to compensate for remoteness, distance, market disadvantage and so on. This section of the taxpaying community also is expected, in fact forced, through taxation to pay for huge city losses on such things as government transport. In other words, country people are paying twice. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  unabashedly takes advantage of big subventions for transport services in Canberra. Certainly he has increased other charges in Canberra, but he wants to see the dairy industry put out of business by margarine manufacturers. He wants to follow one course and one course only. 
Is this Government an open government? Is this an honest Government? Is it a new breed of socialism? I leave it to the electors to decide, particularly the electors in Parramatta and in the New South Wales State seat of Murray. They will give their verdict in a few weeks time. Decentralisation has been ignored in this Budget except for allocations to the chosen area of Albury-Wodonga, and then only for the costs associated with land development. Nothing else has really been done. Everyone, including the people in the proposed growth centres, now faces increased charges in every direction. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government maintained that country people were entitled to concessions to encourage decentralisation. However, this Government has stripped down all concessions and has abandoned decentralisation. Country industry has been particularly hard hit and more is yet to come when the full brunt of transport costs and other increases take effect. 
I turn now to the telephone and postal charge changes that have been announced in this. House. The Postmaster-General and the Government are guilty of gross deception in this field of government administration. Earlier this year .the Prime Minister announced the appointment of a royal commission to inquire into the Australian Post Office. It was known at that time that the commission could not complete its task before the Budget. In these circumstances policy changes were not anticipated. The royal commission was charged with a duty of making wide-ranging recommendations to the Government. However, the Government has proceeded with complete disregard for the royal commission. It is now fair to ask the following questions: Did the Government engage in this deception because of union pressure since it announced the royal commission? Was it a deliberate slight to the royal commission? Did the Government have confidence in the commissioners it appointed, or have they been by-passed as being of no consequence? This is a serious aspect of what is contained in the Budget. The royal commission, one of the first of this kind appointed for many years, has been virtually disregarded and major policy changes have been made. The Budget decisions should be withdrawn insofar as they involve drastic policy changes in telephone charging structures and postage rates. 
It should be the task of the royal commission to make recommendations on these matters. I challenge the Postmaster-General with his own words in this House. What has been done by this Government to provide a Treasury subvention for the Australian Post Office to assist it to meet the needs of the community, to meet the higher charges that it is involved in, and the concessions on the industrial side of the operation since it came into office? This Government has done nothing at all. Yet the Postmaster-General in this place said that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had 23 years in which to adopt an approach on the lines of some form of Treasury subvention and it did not do it. He has been loud in his criticism of the previous Government but he has now had his chance and what is he doing about it? When will we hear his decision in this matter? 
The real nature of the policy changes initiated by the Postmaster-General is, indeed, disturbing. Rentals for those who live in country cities and towns have increased from S37 to $55 for a single telephone service. What changes was made to city subscribers' rentals? Not the slightest change was made at all; city rentals remain the same. A very weak excuse was given by the Government. It said that the country subscriber now has almost the same access in the range of telephoning that he can undertake as has the city dweller. This is complete rubbish as we know full well. Anyone who picks up the Sydney telephone directory and looks at the range of calling available to a city subscriber can clearly see why there ought to be a higher charge for a city subscriber. I ask honourable members to consider telephone subscribers in Grafton, Orange, Wagga, Kempsey or any provincial centre which might have a continuous service and to compare their range of local calling with that of a city user. It is quite disproportionate and the rental alteration which this Budget will provide is nothing short of bush ranging so far as the country telephone user is concerned. 
There are other propositions, all of which should have been matters for the royal commission to report upon to the Government and for the Government then to make its decisions. I instance the drastic change which is to occur in the provision of country telephone services. The previous Government introduced a system of providing 15 miles of telephone line free of charge to an applicant for a telephone service - not to be provided tomorrow or next week, but progressively over a period of years. Many services of this kind were established by the previous Government. Overnight, this Labor Government, not waiting for the royal commission to make its recommendation but, as an ad hoc decision, cuts back the 15 miles of free line to 5 miles. It has said to the prospective telephone user in the country: 'Henceforth you can pay from the 5 mile point to wherever it is you need to have your telephone'. When we check on what it will cost the ordinary country user who wants a telephone connected, we find it is a figure in excess of $500 a mile. Of course, there will be some concessions according to a vague indication given in this House - that the country user will have two or three years to pay off the cost. But of course the construction has to be undertaken by the Australian Post Office. He cannot escape the work being undertaken by the Post Office. Therefore, there is a fixed charge even if he has the equipment to do the job himself. Obviously he will not be permitted to do so because that would not suit the new socialist approach to the administration of the Post Office. 
Let us look at the wide range of other services that have been drastically altered ki this Budget. I heard the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  bitterly criticising Country Party members this afternoon for an alleged comment which he apparently has imagined has been made by Country Party members, namely, that the cost of trunk line calls has been increased across the board by 20c. He went on to explain that the real proposition is a 20c impost on those people who book a trunk call through a trunk exchange rather than use the subscriber trunk dialling system. Can honourable members think of anything more designed to moderate the use of the telephone and to chase away business than the imposition of this 20c per call on the making of a trunk line call booked through a telephone exchange which has STD access? I cannot. I think it is just another indication of a crazy approach. Of course it is aimed at one thing - forcing people to use STD at all times. We know very well that a lot of people do not use STD facilities because they want accountability of telephone calls. When they get their telephone account they want some record of the calls that have been made or the duration of the calls. This applies particularly in small business where the trusted people of the business are not always under some form of supervision and the management quite rightly says: 'Book all calls through the trunk exchange and do not use STD.' Then there is a record of the calls. 
In earlier times there was a charge of something like 20c for a monthly statement of trunk line telephone calls. That was fair enough. I think the charge might have been increased to 50c. But now we shall have a charge of 20c per call and on top of that no doubt a very heavy charge for a telephone statement at the end of each month or whatever is required for accountability of trunk line calls. Yet the honourable member for Cook came into this House this afternoon and bitterly criticised the Country Party for what he said was an attempt to mislead the public. Those who are misleading the public *re the senior members of this Government - those who have designed the Budget - and their supporters on the back bench. I am sure that the Australian public is very quickly waking up to this and as the real content of this Budget is unfolded over the next few weeks and months they will see where the deception lies. 
I now turn to the major issue of this Budget - the question of inflation. This Budget has done nothing at all to contribute towards the reduction of inflation. In fact, the very provisions of the Budget will accentuate inflation. We now face an inflation level of 13 per cent a year. The Coombs report did not give any effective proposals in relation to inflation. It was a fizzer in that direction. But the Government has had at its disposal he Reserve Bank report and many Treasury recommendations - some of which have been made public - and there is obvious advice that it is dangerous for the Government to proceed without heeding the need to take steps to moderate inflation. But of course honourable members on the other side of the chamber now want to criticise the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  for his proposals in relation to a prices and incomes freeze. 
I say just this about the criticism of the Leader of the Opposition on the simple score that he had not taken this kind of action when he was Treasurer and when he was in Government: The first thing that has to be realised is that the circumstances of the economy today are very different indeed. The Leader of the Opposition had the intestinal fortitude to bring down a Budget in this House 2 years ago to do one thing - to deal with inflation. He did that and to his credit it was effective. Certainly there was some loss of employment, there were some disabilities, but the Australian nation benefited from what was done at that time. Now it is too late. We have a new Budget. It has done nothing in this direction. Is there any alternative other than that proposed by the Leader of the Opposition? What hypocrisy it is for honourable members on the Government side to criticise him for not having taken this kind of action at an earlier time. 
Of course, if we look at informed advice from such people as  Mr Donovan,  the economic adviser to W. D. Scott and Company - a very eminent company in Australia in terms of the researching of the economy, the problems which the country .faces and so on - we see that he has just issued a very startling report which indicates that because of the existing shortages of materials in the building industry and in other fields well known to most Australians, to the average small income earner who wants to build a home and to the average Australian who in his every day life requires some material to do some job or other, there is looming up a very ugly black market situation. This will not be solved by this Budget. In fact what will happen is some form of rationing, and we know what that means. It means that the community has to suffer and suffer badly. 
So if we look at the whole spectrum, we find that this Budget has failed miserably to deal with .the real problems of the economy and with the requirements of this nation as they exist today both in the commercial world and in every other direction. I have referred specifically to the problems of primary industry. I conclude by expressing my full support for the amendment moved in .this House by the Leader of the Opposition in which he states that this House should express its disapproval of the Budget because it is economically irresponsible. He enunciated under 7 headings the reasons why he believes it is economically irresponsible. I have tried to put to the House some of the issues in the little time at my disposal, which I believe accord with what has been proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. I hope that the Australian community will see by the very existence of this motion, regardless of its outcome, the real meaning of this Budget. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I believe that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  have both exposed themselves completely by the very hollow ring in the case that they have put in this House today. I am sure that the honourable members on this side who have spoken on this very important issue of education have disposed of the arguments adequately and there is no need for me to add anything. 
I turn to another subject. The vicious increase in postal and telephone charges and the reduction in petrol equalisation introduced in the Budget disregards completely the fundamental element of decentralisation. Decentralisation has received a severe setback at the hands of the Australian Government. On the one hand the Department of Urban and Regional Development has put a case to the royal commission into the Australian Post Office, and on the other hand the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who has just left the chamber, has disregarded the commission. It is significant that the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Lansdown,  appeared before the royal commission on 16 August on behalf of his Department. Amongst other things he proposed to the commission that higher telephone charges be instituted in capital cities in order to make possible a reduction in the charges in country areas. This was before the Budget was announced in this House on 21 August. Therefore he was alluding to the charges that existed before the Budget announcement. This is not a matter to be taken lightly. Where is the Government going on this issue? A new Department, established specifically to promote and advance decentralisation, has been disregarded before its recommendations are even considered by the royal commission. 
Where does the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  stand on this issue? Is he content, as apparently the Postmaster-General is, to do nothing to relieve the burden on country areas, a burden which 'the present Government has created? Is the Government concerned about decentralisation or not? The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was very vocal on these issues before the last election. He announced a pro posal for a uniform telephone charging scheme in designated growth areas. Then he reneged after the election and announced that the whole matter of telephone charges, postal charges and the operation and financing of the Post Office would be inquired into by a royal commission. He failed to ensure that his Government maintained the status quo until the royal commission had concluded its inquiry. 

 Major policy changes in the telephone and postage rates were announced in the Budget. In so doing the Prime Minister breached the long standing practice of affording a royal commission its proper status and jurisdiction. The increases in postal rates and telephone charges, as well as other Budget imposts, are detrimental to people who live, by necessity, in the country. If newspapers continue to use the mail as a means of distribution the projected increase will be so severe that postage on a newspaper delivered by mail to a reader will be much higher than the cost of the newspaper itself. Surely that is a ludicrous situation. The Post Office obviously will lose the regular business that over the year has enabled country readers of newspapers to receive their newspapers at a cost they can afford. This cost has risen quite sharply over the years and newspapers have been required to pre-sort in order to reduce Post Office handling. But these increases in the past have been completely baulked by what we find this Government doing today in what might be described as an operation snide in its concept and completely irresponsible in its approach. 
Past increases were fractional compared with that envisaged by the Postmaster-General in his statement to the House on 21 August and which are to take effect within the next 3 years. Coupled with the reduced services one wonders whether the Government has a death wish as it proceeds to price the Post Office right out of the market. More basic than the economics of running the Post Office, however, is the principle of seeing that people are fully informed on matters of importance to them. The local newspaper does this to an extent that no other news media can ever hope to match. It is basic to the democratic processes that people in the country as well as in the cities should be informed. Without communication democracy in its fullest sense is an idle dream. 
Why should it be subsidised by the Post Office? What has the honourable member for Casey been doing? Every time he has been on his feet in this House since becoming a member he has been espousing the expenditure of funds in the community interest. I recall his advocacy in matters such as improving the standards of the media in this country. We listened to him speak yesterday about a matter of community concern but he did not have a solution to proffer. We listened to him today and again he had a lot of words to say about matters to which apparently he is dedicated in the community interest. Now he wants to deny completely the right of community interest. Does he want it both ways or does he fail to recognise 
That is a matter for you and your Government to determine. The Government has a very clear remedy if it wishes to apply itself. That remedy is to use Treasury subvention to finance losses in the Post Office. 
Debate interrupted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)It being 12.45 p.m., in accordance with standing order 106 1 put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in this House, according to Hansard, has made the claim that not one member of the Australian 
Country Party has ever won more than 50 per cent of the primary vote before being elected to this Parliament. He went on to say: 
Of course they get more than 50 per cent after the distribution of preferences, but not one Country Party member has ever gained a majority on the first count. 
I claim to have been misrepresented in this respect: As the member elected for the Division of Cowper I have obtained 50 per cent of the primary vote and I have been elected without a distribution of preferences, which is contrary to what was claimed to have occurred by the Minister for Services and Property. I wish to place this fact on record. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Do the vicious increases in postal and telephone charges, particularly those relating to country areas, disregard completely the fundamental elements of decentralisation? Did the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development recently propose to the Post Office Commission of Inquiry, on behalf of his department, that higher telephone charges be instituted in capital cities in order to make possible a reduction in the charges in country areas as an incentive to decentralisation? Is the Government concerned with decentralisation or not, and will the Postmaster-General say whether he will call for Treasury subvention of funds for his Department to reinstate previous concessions for non-metropolitan areas to give some equity to this section of the community, or take action along the lines advocated by the Department of Urban and Regional Development? If not, is he content to do nothing to relieve the burden on country areas which he and the present Government have created? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay is becoming almost hysterical in his efforts to explain away his own dilemma. I just want to repeat to this House that he misrepresented me inasmuch as he said that I would recall his statement. I want to make it perfectly clear that I recall his statement clearly, but not in the way that he asserts I would. 1 recall his statement. 
I will proceed to make my explanation which I think I have made clear to the House but about which honourable members opposite are apparently so concerned that they continue to rise taking groundless points of order. The honourable member for Wide Bay, at the meeting to which he referred and which he alleged I would recall, said that under a Labor Government the dairy industry subsidy would be increased to a level of $40m. He knows this to be the truth. I have been misrepresented inasmuch as he has endeavoured to implicate me. I remember something quite different from and in fact directly opposite to what he has claimed in this House this afternoon. 
Mir HANSEN (Wide Bay) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The proposed increase in postal and telephone charges is a direct attack on policies which have endured since Federation. Now an irresponsible government is taking away the basic privileges of communities within this country. The White Paper on the prospects and capital program for the Australian Post Office for 1973-74 disclosed that the profit for 1972-73 was $42m and the profit for 1973-74 is estimated at $50m. However, a savage increase in cost to a section of the community is being proposed in both postage and telephone charges. Capital investment proposed for 1973-74 is no less than $554m, an increase of $74m on the appropriation in the previous year. We do not dispute the need for this increase. But within these broad figures is to be found the new style of management of the Australian Post Office under a Labor Administration. Expenditure is to rise sharply not just in the direct progression of the services provided by the Australian Post Office but in the main in the cost of operation of the services. 
Expenses for postal services have risen by $22m while income is to rise by an equivalent sum of $22m. Yet, the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has told the Parliament that the Government proposes to terminate concessions in the postal field worth $ 10.5m and concessions in the telecommunications field worth $36m. Of course, extra revenue will be raised in the general field by the increase in the provision of services required by the people and the increased volumes that flow in each of the fields. However, the earnings from telecommunications will rise by $91m. The expenditure side of telecommunications is rising by an equivalent sum of $91m. We are conscious that there is a traffic increase and that telecommunications is a very good business for the Post Office if service is provided. In the past service has been provided. In the past the Post Office has done a tremendous job in this field, but what we are really seeing is an escalation of costs which is quite staggering and which spells out an impossible position for the future maintenance of an adequate service to the public by the Australian Post Office. These cost increases will virtually put the business operation of the Post Office in jeopardy. In fact, they will put the Post Office into a real shambles. 
The biggest business in the nation is facing a crisis, the magnitude of which is obviously not realised by the Government. The Post Office faces the same calamity as every other section of the business community now faces, but in the case of the Post Office the rot is setting in earlier and the collapse will come more quickly. The kind of surgery being applied by the Government will not work. A year ago serious industrial trouble confronted the Australian Post Office. The previous Government at least protected the business operations of the service. The previous Government did not give way to trade union demands; it did not surrender the future of the postal and telecommunications services to militant pressure. In December last this all changed. Union demands were met, business needs were thrown overboard and now we see great cost rises, reduced services and a grim prospect for the future. 
It is little wonder that the Government has glossed over the fundamental issues of service to the public and efficiency, and of course the real issue which is the cost problems which result from this new style of control of the Post Office. In an endeavour to draw a red herring across the trail and to avoid the real issue, the Postmaster-General and the Gov ernment have made unjustified attacks on the country communities and of course, in particular, on the Country Party. This was very adequately dealt with by the Leader of the Australian Country Party, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  earlier in this debate. Not game to deal with the real problems, of course, the country principally, but to some extent the entire community, is being socked. 
The amendment which we propose to move in the Committee stage will give the Parliament the opportunity to correct the injustices of these charges in the field of bulk posting of newspapers. I do not want to traverse ground which has been so adequately covered by previous speakers. I believe that the community is shocked and in fact dismayed by what it finds occurring in the area of charges for bulk postings and the directions in which these drastic changes are being made. There is no doubt at all that it is a sectional approach; that it is an approach directed at the country people of this nation. One is able to see very clearly the attitude of the present Government - an attitude which really cannot be sustained in the face of the pressure which is mounting against it. 
I just want to say to the honourable members for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan),  Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  that they should have a very good look at where they stand in relation to their attitudes on this matter and consider what their constituencies will really think when they know the truth. I understand that the honourable member for Riverina has been making public statements in which he has said that the Government has reduced charges for country people in the field of telephone services and the like. 
Of course, he is not being truthful. 
The honourable member for Riverina can get up and give his side of the story if he wants to. But he ought to be very careful how he puts the picture across to the people in his electorate. The Post Office Commission of Inquiry, which was set up by the Government, has been bypassed. Of course, this Commission has been very properly referred to in this debate. I do not want to traverse that ground further. However, the Government has defied the normal practice and for the first time in the history of this Federal Parliament a royal commission has been treated with near contempt. The Government has made policy changes after appointing the Royal Commission, setting its terms of reference and giving it a job to do. This is really an unforgivable act. It is little wonder that the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs,  Mr Lane,  in giving evidence before the Commission under oath said, if my memory serves me correctly, that if he were given a free hand he could save $2m in the operation of the Redfern Mail Exchange. Would he make that statement lightly? Would he give this evidence if he did not feel that he was stating the truth and being honest? But what do we find? The Postmaster-General at the same time said that he believed that the Redfern Mail Exchange in Sydney ought to be dismantled. 
The PostmasterGeneral has just said in this House that the Redfern Mail Exchange should be dismantled. Would he replace this complex with a costly, labour intensive operation and shoot up the costs still further rather than take control of that operation and see to it that the union pressure which has prevented it from doing its job is curbed and controlled as it ought to be? The Postmaster-General is not prepared to stand up to this pressure. But what he is prepared to do is to come into this House and attack a section of this community- the country community - and try to put the blame on it. He says that country communities have had concessions which they do not deserve. This, of course, is a complete fabrication and a denial of traditional rights which have been build up in this country for very good reasons. But why do we not hear something about the losses on metropolitan services - losses of the kind to which I have just referred in relation to the Redfern Mail Exchange? Of course we do not hear about them from the present Government or the present Postmaster-General. He does not want to upset his union friends. He does not want to be- honest and tell the country the truth about these matters. 
I believe that the public will see through the hollowness of his whole approach towards the alteration of postal and telephone charges. The public is seeking and, of course, will soon be using other means of transportation of its mail. Is it good business, with this kind of inefficiency, to have a big movement away from the Post Office? What will happen then? We will find the Government trying by one means or another - perhaps by altering the law - to prevent private enterprise from moving letters or packages other than through the mail service. The Postmaster-General wants to socialise this country regardless of the cost and sock those onto whom he believes he can throw the burden. This attempt will fail miserably because the public just will not take it. The shabby approach to this matter singling out the country people and of not saying one word about the uneconomic metropolitan services to which I have referred is a great reflection upon a Government which is new to office and a Government which ought to be, as it claims, a new broom doing a decent job. The Government is not being honest in its approach. 
What do we find in the field of telecommunications? We find the Parliament having foisted upon it a proposition to introduce a 20c charge on the booking of trunk line calls through a manual exchange where an STD service is available. I want to make one pertinent point in this respect. Think of every motel, hotel and small business around the country to which someone goes to make a telephone call. There is only one effective way in which that can be done. The call has to be booked through a manual operator so that the duration of the call and so on can be recorded and a proper charge imposed upon the person who makes the call. Henceforth every one of those calls will attract an additional 20c charge. What a reflection upon an efficient operation. What will this do to the business through-put of calls of that nature? There will be a falling off straight away. People will not want to be saddled with a 20c charge. What a shock it will be to those people in motels, hotels and the like who provide a switchboard and a person to operate it as a service to the travelling public or to those who are staying overnight. These are the kinds of things we find being foisted upon the public by the Government. It has the hide to come out and make these attacks on what might be described as the ordinary man in the street and to fleece him for its own ends. I could go on and make an assessment of practically every one of the provisions with which the legislation before the 
House now deals and find the same hidden extras and the same unfair approaches being made. 
There has been reference to the introduction of the metric system and what it will mean in terms of the cost of postage. A very great imposition is unfairly being placed upon the general public without any justification whatsoever for doing so. If the Government had been truthful in this matter that would have been fair enough. We could have then dealt with its proposals in a more direct and effective manner. The Postmaster-General will say, of course, that the previous Government agreed to the metric proposition. 
The PostmasterGeneral is again not being truthful. The previous Government did not determine the rates at that time. No decision was made on the question of rates and he knows it. 
A decision was made merely on what the metric gradations would be. I hope the Postmaster-General will, be honest enough to admit that. The role of the Post Office is to serve the community. It has had this responsibility ever since Federation. The Post Office has grown into an enormous organisation which employs something like 120,000 people. It spends annually an amount to the order of $ 1,200m. It is the biggest business in the nation. Yet we find this kind of approach which is lacking from every point of view. It is lacking from the point of view of seeing to it that a service is provided. It is lacking from the point of view of seeing that there is fair play and that there is good strong management so far as the Government is concerned. I refer to the industrial relations within the operation of the Post Office. 
Of course, if we take the whole question of where we go in regard to the Post Office, we find that its future under this kind of government management is dim. We find that the escalation of costs in the space of 36 months would practically price the postal business out of reach of the ordinary person in the street. Certainly, it would put it beyond the means of usage for business purposes. A similar pattern emerging is that which has been described in relation to bulk postage charges on newspapers. This is no scare story to which I refer. This is merely what is spelt out in the facts as we see them presented in these Bills before the House tonight, related to the whole spectrum of Post Office financing. It is a picture which requires an approach by the Government vastly different to that which we are experiencing. It would have been proper for the Government to have agreed to some form of Treasury subvention to keep the present operation going at least until the commission had made a recommendation. Had it done so, the Government would have played fair with the Parliament and with the public. Had it done this is would have brought credit upon itself. But it has failed miserably to make an approach along these lines. I deprecate the action that has been taken. I certainly oppose the charges that are now envisaged. I look forward to supporting the amendment which will be moved in the Committee stage in relation to bulk postage charges. 
The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has incorporated in Hansard certain figures. He claims that this action is necessary to rebut figures previously incorporated in Hansard by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I draw attention to the fact that the figures incorporated in Hansard by the honourable member for Mackellar had as their source - and this appears on the document - 'Commonwealth Parliamentary 
Library Statistical Service'. I feel that the House should be informed of the source of the figures now incorporated in Hansard by the Minister for Secondary Industry. He went further and by way of comment said that the previous figures were misleading. He threw out the challenge to those on this side of the House that we had a motive in presenting those figures. I put it clearly to the House that there is a motive in respect of the figures incorporated in Hansard by the Minister for Secondary Industry. It is only fair and reasonable that he should take this opportunity to tell the House the source of those figures. It will take him 2 words to identify the source of the figures so that we may know their authenticity. 
Fine! That is just what we wanted. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the increase in licence fees for commercial broadcasting stations is yet another Budget impost introduced by the Whitlam Labor Government. 
In the very short time left tonight I just want to observe that this Parliament has in recent weeks, and particularly this evening, degenerated into a most ineffective legislature. I make the point there was dissent on the Government side. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  rose and sought some common sense approach in this chamber, but he was not accorded any consideration by his own Leader. He, of course- 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill before the House is perhaps the most sinister and dangerous piece of legislation so far introduced by the Whitlam Government. This afternoon we have listened to a debate which has clearly demonstrated the real significance of this measure. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  spoke with many platitudes. With his lack of experience in this House perhaps he was sincere and genuine but he really did not understand the fundamental import of this measure. If he had he surely could not have claimed as he did that this was the kind of legislation which we in this Australian democracy require for the future good and wellbeing of this country. I want to recall the introduction of the original Bill in 1970. On that occasion I gave it my full support. Many other honourable members on this side of the House did likewise. We were nevertheless conscious of and concerned at the possibility of a future Labor Government picking up this piece of legislation and drastically altering it. At that time I expressed the view that we could not afford either to reduce the content of the Bill because of that risk or to throw it out for that same reason, because if the Bill had not existed the very fact that this new Government could introduce a Bill would not be altered. This would, of course, then have been an originating Bill. We are dealing now with amendments to an existing Bill or, if I can put it another way, we are seeing the full colour and import of the comments made at that time by the then spokesman for the Opposition, now the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and, until recently, also the Minister for Secondary Industry. 
We can recall well that his expressions on that occasion were extreme indeed. Of course, he supported the Bill. He supported it to the full and saw in it the opportunity of having an instrument upon which he could apply his own approach if he ever had that opportunity. Unfortunately he now has it. These are the real issues in this debate: The direction in which we find this legislation leading; the attitude of the Australian Government and, of course, in its wake, the official attitude of Australia as a nation to the total concept of trade and commerce and development and the future of industry. I am talking of industry as a whole because the Government's sweeping powers bring into question the future of all forms of industry at all levels. As a result of the action taken by the previous Government in the original Bill in 1970 and the policy of that Government in relation to overseas investment, we had a situation in Australia where a very proper approach was being made to development and the content of overseas interest in Australian development, and at the same time the necessity to try to ensure that where possible and to the greatest extent possible Australia took its rightful place in developmental projects. 
It is obvious that this Government has looked at this problem in depth and has found that it is not easy for it to move from the ground upon which it found itself as a new government into a completely new area smoothly and easily. The reason is twofold. First of all it finds that there is a limit to Australia's economic capacity. That limit has undoubtedly disturbed this new Government. Obviously it would rather have taken action on the spur of the moment in many directions to offer massive funds to do this and that and take over in many directions. We have, of course, a classic example in the pipeline. This was a decision made no doubt on the spur of the moment by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  Now the Government obviously realises what this means in terms of financial commitment. This no doubt was realised when this Bill was being drafted. So the Government has set about the task of introducing a wide range of propositions aimed at gathering in funds which it could then direct and spend on the pretext that this was to achieve Australian equity and Australian ownership and all the other high sounding and - to those who have no opportunity of seeing into the detail and background - attractive approaches to dealing with great national problems. 
The other problem which arises from this is that the Government already has frightened off overseas investment. Already it has scared away enterprises of the kind that are necessary to bring technology, capacity, knowhow and experience into the field of major development in Australia. So it now wants to correct its early error by saying that we will do these things ourselves and offer incentives to the Australian people to invest in a governmentcontrolled corporation. But what do we find? We find a massive raid being planned on Australia's own capital resources. I would not mind, and I am sure other Australians would not mind, if there was a balance and some evidence of reasoning and an attitude of common sense, but there is certainly no evidence of them. We can see straightaway all of the indications of a socialist approach. We can see straightaway an attitude of takeover, an attitude of 'deal on our terms or else', an attitude of 'we can do no wrong; our decisions will be the right ones and you can put up with the consequences.' I just want to remind the Australian community that the last Labor Gov.ernment engaged to a limited extent in this sort of thing. There was the great shale oil project which was going to revolutionise fuel supplies for Australia. Of course, funds were poured into it but the oil did not flow. It was a dismal failure. During the war maybe it was justified to attempt to build up some supplies from that source but it was seen in the postwar era by the Chifley Government as an opportunity to go out and do some great job of development. It failed. 
The honourable member who has just interjected has really hit the nail on the head. Private enterprise has failed many times. The risk capital that goes into development - thus far in Australia and certainly in the older countries of the world - has been the real means of achieving development. This has not been taxpayers' money administered by a public servant who is not answerable in the same way as are those who are prepared to take a risk through private enterprise. As the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  so rightly says: This is the point of the matter. 
Private enterprise will take risks and those who are responsible must take the rap. But a public corporation is quite different from a government body. No public servant will have his head lopped off because he has made mistakes. It may well be said that in private enterprise those who happen to make a wrong decision are not completely destroyed. But, there at least the situation is that answers must be given as to why a decision was wrong. At least in private enterprise success or failure is measured to determine whether more funds will be poured down the drain or a cut off point determined before such action is too late. If we look at the examples of what has occurred in the kind of administration that was set up for a great public corporation in the United Kingdom - this was certainly well described earlier in the debate - a clear warning is spelt out to the Australian nation not to allow this sort of thing to happen. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley made an appeal for the House to agree to the passage of this Bill and for the Senate to support it also. I am sure that he will be disappointed - and rightly so. Australia cannot afford at this time in its history and at this stage of its development the luxury of this kind of massive socialist experiment. I think that it was the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who said that $4,000m had flowed out of this country. He used that figure in an attempt to prove a point. But he failed to recognise and to tell the rest of the story. If he was prepared at the same time to introduce in this debate clear figures as to Australia's development in that same period we would see the relationship of his assertion to what in truth are the real facts of the matter. 
In my short lifetime, I can remember when the Australian population was fewer than 7 million. Today the population is double that figure. If we consider also the growth of the economic capacity of this nation, the development of industry and the tremendous efforts of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government to give Australia some basic industry, to give Australia's work force opportunities and to give Australian consumers the chance to buy Australian first and to develop the nation, the record is a pretty good one. It certainly is misleading to sell that record down the drain by saying that we have allowed $4,000m of our wealth to flow out of this country. What complete hypocrisy it is to criticise the Australian community in this way. That claim' simply is not true. If the facts are assessed as they ought to be assessed it will be seen that those economists and others who support the socialist assertion in this matter are doing a great disservice to their fellow Australians. They should tell the whole truth in this matter. Then, a measure of this kind might be more properly assessed, debated and understood by the Australian community. 
Australia has a proud record of development. We have had until now a record second to none in terms of stability of economy, government, administration, opportunities, ways and means and progress. 'Is this record to be sold down the drain by the socialist concepts of this Labor Government, which is bent on redistributing wealth, as has been said so often recently in this session? In the course of redistributing wealth, will the opportunity be taken from the small man to share in that wealth? Will that wealth be put into some great pool so that everyone may dip in regardless of whether they have made a contribution or whether they are prepared by dint of hard work and persistency in their particular calling to make a contribution? Is this what redistribution of wealth means? Of course it does. The Labor Government wishes to put all available financial resources into one great pool regardless of how it does so. 
Let me refer specifically to the proposition on the creation of finance for the proposed operations of the AIDC. It is clearly indicated that, in order to make a massive raid on Australia's available capital resources, pressure will be put first on life assurance companies. I think that the Minister for Overseas Trade might have nodded his head partly in agreement. I think that he is keen to do this. Of course he is keen to do it. He knows that this is just one avenue in which pressure can be applied because the resources are there, the cash is there. They exist because the Australian community - not the wealthy people - has built up really worthwhile resources in terms of finance. I refer to the ordinary policy holder in any of the recognised life assurance companies. These people have invested in order to provide some security for their families. 
What do we find today? A very clear picture is presented of reductions in bonuses this financial year because of the impost of increased taxation in excess of $40m. We are informed in this measure that the Government proposes to alter the present rules so that a greater proportion of those funds might be directed into the Corporation. Incentive for investment in a special form of bonds is to be offered to try to attract money into this pool. In addition, a taxation concession is to be granted. What will be the consequence of this action? Any benefit gained on the one hand will be lost on the other. It is a case of the money being taken out of one pocket and put into the other. In the process opportunities for the proper growth of these organisations, particularly the life assurance offices which have been so important in the development of Australia, will be reduced. Something will be taken away from them to enable this socialist experiment to proceed on its merry way. If that is good government, I have a lot to learn. It would be the worst form of double crossing of the Australian community that one could possibly produce. Yet, here is this Government obviously proud of its action. 
We should look at many other features of the Bill and particularly the extent to which the AIDC can become all-embracing in terms of the Government's attitude and policy to industry. I think in terms of primary industry specifically. I am certainly concerned, as I know others in this House are concerned, about this aspect. People outside as they begin to understand what this all means are becoming concerned also. We will find developing very quickly a situation in which those with no expertise at all will begin to apply themselves through this instrumentality to direct and to set the rules in terms of what ought to happen in industry. 
Let us take primary industry. Two years ago any proposition for assistance to primary industry would have been measured against the then ruling world prices of wool, wheat, meat and all the other commodities and the answer would have been: 'No, you cannot do it; it is not a viable proposition'. It would also have been said: 'No, you should not assist these industries because the best thing to do for them in the light of their prospects in the immediate period ahead is to get rid of them, pay them out, sack them and get rid of the lot'. Here we are, 24 months later, with an entirely different situation. Of course, the Minister for Overseas Trade professes to be so skilled in these matters- 
Clause 1 refers to the short title of this Bill. Among other things it says:  . . Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Act 1973. The increase in licence fees for commercial broadcasting stations is yet another Budget impost introduced by the Whitlam Government. It shows once again the double standards of the Government. 

The remainder of the Bill, comprising clauses 2 and 3, refers to the coming into operation on 22 August 1973 of increased charges. It shows once again the double standards of the Government in matters closely affecting community services. Previously the licence fee was $50. It is now proposed by the Government to raise this 300 per cent to $200. For the grant or renewal of a licence for a commercial broadcasting station the fee under this legislation will henceforth be $200. While this may seem a comparatively small licence fee, the principle underlying it is an increase of 300 per cent. 
I believe that this is very significant for the reason that on the one hand the Government is claiming credit for establishing the new Department of the Media. Many policy statements have been issued, all of them wordy and full of grandiose proposals to improve the service provided by the media of this country to the community in many fields. Great play has been made of this so-called liberal approach to the quality of service and the scope of the media under Labor. Standards are under challenge for the reason that so many changes are envisaged or have been foreshadowed. Now this new look is to be foisted on the nation. Whilst the Australian Broadcasting Commission seems to have the green light to spend on program expansion, particularly on current affairs and a wide range of new concepts, commercial broadcasting stations are faced with a restrictive approach, and the very provisions under the clauses being dealt with by the Committee indicate that. 
Many stations in Australia face financial difficulties, particularly in country areas. Yet this legislation proposes a 300 per cent increase in licence fees for commercial stations and introduces a scale of additional charges on gross earnings from advertising receipts. Revenue from broadcasting station licence fees in 1972-73 was $491,000. The additional overall revenue estimated as a result of this legislation will increase this income by $ 120,000. Admittedly it is a small amount but it takes the contribution of commercial stations to a total of $611,000. At the same time the Government has announced a government advertising proposal to cost, if my memory serves me correctly, $3. 5m in the present Budget. In other words, it is taking funds out of one pocket within the media and putting them into another. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  the statement has been made that the new fees have been calculated so as to ensure that stations are only marginally profitable and will only pay a small increase of about SI 50. Those words may appeal to those who have not studied the details and the background of the operation of commercial television stations in this country. If the Government is genuine and sincere in its approach to encourage the media as a community service, why increase the fees at all? It is a sleight of hand approach which has been commonplace since this Government took office. What is proposed in this legislation cannot be considered in isolation. In the Budget the Government hit commercial radio stations and their contribution to development of services as an integral part of the media of this country in a harsh and damaging way. Land line charges, concessional telephone charges and the like were increased, but of course the increases have since been temporarily withdrawn. It is to be hoped that the negotiations that have been proposed will ensure that some common sense will return to the Government's attitude to this section of the media. I believe that the action of the Australian Country Party was the real reason for the second thought that was applied to this matter, and I would hope that when this matter is under serious consideration the action under this legislation will also be considered. 
Briefly I make the point that the larger stations, particularly those in the metropolitan area, have a greater field in which to seek a revenue income, and of course their advertising results are very much higher than those of the single station operator serving a country community or, for that matter, a provincial centre, where there is an existing city or large centre of population but only one commercial station for the very reason that that is all that can be viable. Increased charges in these circumstances and the limitations on the field open to such a station for revenue mean that there is a contraction of resources available to that station to provide the highest possible standard of program. The use of the land line to bring programs of greater import to stations of that kind has become a feature of the operation of commercial broadcasting. 
It is vital that the Government recognises the importance of the media in respect of the single station operation for communities which are too far distant to have the advantage of the metropolitan service where there are a number of stations and a greater field of opportunity and greater economic strength for the purpose of providing that service. I believe it is in this field that the Government's action is quite contradictory - on the one hand establishing a Department of the Media, on the other hand imposing savage charges. What ought to be happening, of course, is that there should be provisions in these clauses of the legislation to assist the single station operator so that he might keep pace with developments of the sort that are happening with the Australian Broadcasting Commission, where a greater access to national and international events in the field of current affairs and the like brings right into the homes of listeners the day-to-day affairs of the world and of course a higher grade of entertainment as well for the very same reason. So there is a need not to impose increased charges but to give greater opportunities to commercial broadcasting stations so that they can play their part as they have done in the past half century or so to give the public a satisfactory service. It is for this reason that I say that the Government has acted in a very strange way indeed, on the one hand setting as its policy a new approach to the media, on the other hand imposing a restrictive approach. We know that the broadcasting stations operate under the jurisdiction, so to speak, of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Standards are set by the Board, and the action of imposing increased charges must surely cut at the very basis of complying with standards as required by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The Government cannot have it both ways. 
I believe that the Country Party is being realistic when it takes the view that the Government's approach is indeed a wrong approach. The charge it proposes is not a charge that ought to be made at all. In fact what should happen is that the Government should take an entirely different view and look not at the capacity of stations on the score of gross income but look at the net result and take into account the actual results of programs in terms of service given. If this were done there would be a much more satisfactory result in the interests of the community and of the general public. After all it is the duty of this Parliament to see that the public at large is given a benefit and not robbed of it. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer him to the long and protracted negotiations between the New South Wales Government and the Australian Government concerning the responsibility for removing and appropriate action to remove 3 wrecks - the 'Sydney Queen' and 2 other vessels - from the public beach at Trial Bay. I ask him whether a previous assurance given to me that Commonwealth assistance would be forthcoming in this matter will be honoured. If so, when will action be taken? Will consideration be given to this matter with a view to removing the wrecks before the coming holiday season? 
The Government has embodied in this legislation a plan for virtual socialist control of primary, secondary and tertiary industry. 
Honourable members opposite say 'What rubbish' but they are the first to acclaim their policy in precisely this direction when they are on the hustings or when speaking to members of their own Party. They cannot come into this House and deny that this is virtually what is happening with the Industries Assistance Commission Bill. This seemingly innocuous proposal needs to be examined critically by both sides of the Parliament and especially by those honourable members who represent or presume to represent private producers of goods and services. Certainly some of our friends from Tasmania - including the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who interjected a while agoshould have a close look at it. Let us recall the recent Budget decision based on the Coombs report. It stripped primary industry of many of its inherent economic- 
There is the honourable member for Blaxland saying 'Unnecessary'. Of course, he says that in this House on the very occasion when this Bill is being debated. In other words, he admits here and now that this legislation is merely the windowdressing for action by the Whitlam Labor Government to strip industry of all the assistance and all the protection and provisions it has had in this respect for a number of years, which have made Australia an effective economic unit for so long. Today we see it being eroded rapidly. Surely those who have had a really good look at this proposition will see just what is embodied in the legislation. 
The principle that assistance to industry should be publicly justified has always been followed by our parliamentary procedures in the various controls on expenditure administered through the Budget. But now we see an example of bureaucratic control in the Coombs report, the decisions announced in the Budget and the interjections from people like the honourable member for Blaxland. It is plain subterfuge for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to claim that it is necessary to create a large and expanding new bureaucracy of public servants with a full time departmental head and a huge staff to carry out the avowed intention of the present Government. The withdrawal of assistance from private industry, which amounts to the imposition of handicaps by restricting its profitability and expansion, is one of the clear objectives of the Government's policy through the proposed Commission. The words used are 'Assistance Commission.' They are misleading. If and when those concerned understand the implications of the legislation, some industry organisations which have at this point said that they favour the general concept will be forced to reverse their opinions and recognise that they had come to their conclusions without adequate information and without a full understanding of what is really intended. 
The -Bill has to be read in conjunction with  Sir John  Crawford's report tabled when the Prime Minister delivered his second reading speech in this House. In support of the pro posal  Sir John  Crawford referred at page 9 of his report to revenue alleged to be foregone - amounting to $282m in 1971-72 - through assistance to industries. In other words, he meant taxation concessions. Honourable members will see if they refer to appendix table 3 on page 109 of the report that the Government in 1973-74 through the Budget, which is still before this House, will abolish all or nearly all of these tax concessions for industry. The Government did not even wait for an inquiry by the proposed Commission. It went ahead. If that does not prove the real intention of this measure I think little more is needed to bring out the point. If honourable members look into the details of the report they will see that the Commission is designed as a vehicle to implement the policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
Of course, the new Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has made statements time and again which prove his determination in this direction. It is said that the proposed Commission will pursue a long term program of inquiry. Yet on page 113 of  Sir John  Crawford's report we see that he calls for a 'settled inquiry program' in the 2 years 1973-74 and 1974-75 affecting assistance to primary industries. The question is: Why is primary industry already marked down for the first inquiry by the proposed Commission? I think that the answer is perfectly clear. It is a direct attempt to whittle away the present status of primary industry in this country. All the orderly marketing arrangements designed to provide stability for rural industries and to help them contribute more than half of Australia's export income are marked down for interference, if not abolition. Surely this is a most serious concept to see in this national Parliament. It is for that reason that I and many other honourable members are opposed to this legislation. Can there be anyone so innocent as to believe that the Commission will be concerned to find ways of rendering further assistance to rural industries when we have already observed the policy of this Government and when we have seen it take action of the kind provided for in the Budget. 
The honourable member for Blaxland says: Tell us about the record incomes'. But of course he fails to have any understanding of primary industry and the kind of difficulties it has experienced over the past 5 years - or 8 years, in the case of some industries. Some sections of the wheat industry have had drought lasting 8 years and this is the first year in which there has been hope of a good crop. The honourable member does not understand these things but he is the kind of person who wants to perpetrate his policies on these industries without even taking the trouble to try to ascertain the real reason for the sort of assistance and protection that has been afforded to them over the years. Undoubtedly, the proposed Commission is designed directly to serve a negative and destructive purpose. The industries affected will be wheat, sugar, canned fruits, tobacco, apples, pears, brandy, rice, dairying and virtually all rural industries assisted by the fertiliser bounties which expire next year. Manufacturing industries, I believe, cannot expect any assistance to come from the Commission's inquiries either. ' In fact, they can expect just the reverse. The Government's attitude is hostile to all Australian private industries. As private industries are arbitrarily caused to contract government enterprise will expand in keeping with the Labor Party's socialist platform and policy proposals to which I have just referred. This Commission will withdraw assistance from private industries and is meant to assist the blatant purpose set out in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in which he said: 
The whole thesis- of the Government's policies requires there to be some increase in the share of resources going to the public section. 
In other words he wants to rob private enterprise in order to bolster the public sector so that an extension of many of the grandiose schemes of Labor can be financed. In other words, private industries have to receive less capital, grow at a slower rate and produce less than they are capable of producing so that the Government can take a larger share of a smaller national cake. That is the whole basis of the request to  Sir John  Crawford as disclosed in his report, and in fact the report itself is clearly designed to meet that requirement. But do we hear anything about inquiries into public utilities? Of course we do not. These would not be condoned by the present Government. Do we hear about an inquiry into the electricity industry, for example, or the transport industry. The Government would not want to tackle that, for a very good reason. 
It would interfere with the comfortable position of its supporters, the unions, which finance its election campaigns and which provide large sums. We have heard a member in this House this afternoon make certain allegations against the Country Party. I suggest that that honourable member ought to have a look at his own party and his own side of the House before he makes the kind of claim which he made. 
The Country Party believes in social reform and supports proposals to this end, but we believe that surplus resources have first to be generated, and certainly this measure does not aim in that direction. Only in this way can social reform be achieved without inflation reducing the standards of living and without cutting down on national development, defence and all the other essential requirements and in fact responsibilities of this national Parliament. Clearly there is only one way to generate these surplus resources, and that is by encouraging the maximum production of goods and services by industries. All the measures which the Country Party has ever proposed this Government now seeks to take away, to dismantle, to throw out. We have seen clear evidence of that. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  speaking earlier in this debate showed some fear, but he tried to cover that up by his expressions of some hope in the activities of the proposed commission. But if this were true why did we lose concessions for the countryside, as he terms it, in the Budget? Why have we seen the dairy industry subsidy already cut? Yet we find him expressing some confidence in the Commission that is proposed by his Party and which he had neither the strength to oppose nor the desire to defend because he would not want to prejudice his own position in his own Party. 
Of course, none of the measures which the Country Party has introduced over the years has been put there without proper examination, prior debate, running the gauntlet in this House and being put through in a proper, clear fashion, the parliamentary system being used, to do it and our not hiding behind some kind of commission outside or hiding behind some bureaucratic process to achieve this end. So all the assistance the Country. Party has proposed over the years has in fact been justified publicly, and any assertion to the contrary is untrue and quite unjustified. In the more important sense I think it could be said that the beneficial results in raising the standards of living and hastening the development of Australia have been overlooked in this debate and have not been recognised as they should be at this point of time. 
I believe that this measure, like the measure we debated last week, is designed to ensure government control of industry in all its facets. It is a proposal which will in the long run cripple the kind of enterprise which Australia has been able to develop in the last half century. This proposed new bureaucracy with power to follow its own initiatives, power to restrict the authority of Cabinet and to restrict the opportunity for quick action to be .taken by the Government, really resembles the central planning authority which is a feature of the socialist systems in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the People's Republic of China and some other countries. Those of us who have had a look at just what goes on in these countries can clearly see that this is a step to bring about a planned situation to ensure that everyone will do as he is told and in which enterprise has no part, no hope and no future. Can we assume that this Commission will confine itself to an advisory role? Of course not. I think the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in this debate pointed out very clearly the salient point which arises in this whole matter. He said: 
In theory, the Government need only regard the Commission's recommendations as recommendations which it is not bound to accept. That is the theory. But in practice- 
This is the important point:  the Government will find that it will have the greatest difficulty in rejecting the Commission's recommendations because if it does, it will lay itself open to a great deal of public criticism. And this is bad and dangerous because the Commission will have sweeping powers, and it will exercise those powers and make public its views in such a way as to place the Government in an intolerable position. 
I believe that if we reflect on some of the occurrences in recent years relating to the Tariff Board and consider the added powers that this Commission will have and the added scope it will cover we will see very clearly the departure from this House of real government in terms of a situation where a government in office is answerable to the nation. We will see a departure from the situation where initiative can be taken and we will see in its place a huge bureaucracy outside really dictating what ought to be done in its view no matter what the electors or the people of the nation are really seeking to have done for them. 
In summary, the objections could be stated in this way: Firstly, the Bill creates a body responsible only to the Prime Minister and which will be given a blank cheque for writing policies of vital concern to all industries, both primary and secondary; Secondly, it will mean the end of the traditional system of forming policies relating to industries by the process of consultation between the representatives of industries concerned, the State governments and the important instrumentalities of the Australian Government such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Bureau of Census and Statistics, the Treasury and those other instrumentalities that provide vital information for the purpose of Government consideration, for the purpose of parliamentary consideration and so on, and of course, the Government itself; thirdly, it will destroy the previously existing relationship between industry and the Government through its departments within whose sphere of influence they fall and with the Ministers in charge of those departments. This must surely be a vital consideration. Perhaps this is the reason why the Whitlam Ministry is such an altered structure to that of previous governments, with one or two Ministers handling an enormous number of portfolios, with new portfolios being created, and with the changes we have seen even in the last week or so. Fourthly, it will substitute a multipartite structure which will assume all the more important functions of established departments such as Secondary Industry, Overseas Trade, Primary Industry, and Minerals and Energy. At the same time its sphere of influence will impinge upon the Departments of Customs and Excise, Northern Development, Transport and so on. It will truly be a juggernaut - unworkable, unnecessary and dangerous. For those reasons I am strongly opposed to this Commission. I am sure that in the long run those of us who have opposed it in this Parliament will be proved right. 
My question is supplementary to that asked earlier by the honourable member for Lyne and is also directed to the Minister for Health. Will the Minister inform the House what criteria were adopted by the Government in reaching the decision he announced this morning that the Government would not provide even one drop of milk to needy school children from 1 January next, despite the provision made in the Budget for this purpose? Can the Minister do better than unfairly blame State governments? Does this mean that he now believes that no health disabilities exist among remotely located school children and particularly Aboriginals in Australia? 
The matter of public importance raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is perhaps one of the most significant subjects to come before this chamber in this session. This is because last Saturday the people of Australia gave their decision on the proposals of the Government for the management of the economy and for the procedures to deal with inflation. It is quite remarkable to find the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  failing to respond on behalf of the Government in this matter. The Leader of the Opposition quite properly has raised this issue at the earliest possible moment following Saturday's decision and yet the Prime Minister has completely ignored the issue and the House and has handed over to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  the responsibility of providing an answer. What a lamentable answer we have been given. It was no answer at all. In fact, in a very grudging way, the Treasurer said: 'Well, we will now have to do second best'. No proposals or alternatives have been put forward. The Australian Government went to the people with a referendum which it cost $750,000 to conduct. 
My friend corrects me; it cost S3m to conduct. The Government has come into this chamber on the first sitting day of the House following that decision with no alternative proposals whatever. In fact, there has been no policy statement or recognition by the Government of the decision of the Australian people. 
I believe therefore that it was timely for the Leader of the Opposition to raise this matter as being a most significant matter of public importance at this juncture. As a nation we are facing an economic calamity. As a nation we are being controlled by a government that is not prepared to face up to its responsibilities. In fact, the Government has now completely jettisoned its responsibilities. What a parsimonious statement it was for the Treasurer to say that, really, the majority of Australians did want price control. He arrived at this conclusion by some hypothetical comparison between metropolitan voting and votes cast by the rest of the community. What hypocrisy it is still to be saying on Tuesday morning that the people of Australia want price control. Of course, this is not strange at all if one makes a very brief study of the form both inside and outside this Parliament since 2 December last. We find the Treasurer repeating over and over again that inflation did not start on 2 December. Yet he denies the facts as they are now so clearly to be seen. The inflationary spiral has risen from 9 per cent to 14 per cent since 2 December. There has been massive government spending, a takeover by the Government of the States' responsibilities and near socialisation being pushed along at a rapid rate and yet the Treasurer says: 'Inflation did not begin on 2 December'. What complete rot. 
Anybody who cares to look at the economic problems of Australia today can see very clearly that the monetary and fiscal approach of the Government has been a disaster in a little more than 9 months. In fact, if we concede that the first 3 months following the change of government represented a period of transition and then consider the 9 months which have elapsed since that time we will see that not one action has been taken by this Government to deal with the greatest problem facing the nation - that of a rapid inflationary spiral. Yet the Treasurer comes along here and says: 'Oh, but it is caused by the events outside the country'. Of course we know there has been a world inflationary spiral, but that was all the more reason for a firm rein to be applied by the Treasury, the Government and those in the corridors of power who have completely negated that responsibility and failed miserably to take any of the positive actions which it was within their power to take. 
We find that in this situation, politics have gone before policy. Politics have dominated the entire thinking of the Government. No consideration has been given to the facts at hand and no judgment has been exercised. There has been merely an ad hoc approach to the economy dictated by union pressures, by a philosophy of socialism and by a power drunk government which cannot see where it is going. What this is doing to the Australian nation, not just for this year or for the next year but probably for a period of 5 years, is indeed devastating. Not only do we already find the cost spiral damaging the basis of our commercial status as a nation, our productive capacity and our capacity to be participants on the world market but also, in its wake, we find that it is creating dire shortages of essential materials. These shortages are occurring not only in the building industry but are now creeping into every part of the consumer sector of commerce and industry. What is the Government doing about it? Not a thing. It has not mentioned it this morning. It is not even prepared to face up to its responsibilities. We have had a Budget which was expansionary. Amongst other things it added some S340m in social welfare. We do not quibble about that. But what about the other actions, such as the excessive expenditure in the public sector at a time when there was over-demand for resources, available goods and manpower? Yet we find this excessive expenditure day by day being accentuated. 
I would remind the honourable member for Eden-Monaro that the Budget also cut back expenditure on primary industries by $150m. We learnt today that free milk for school children, costing $10m, is cut out completely but on the very same day a holiday handout of $27m is offered to a section - a privileged section - of the community. What sort of judgment is this? What sort of responsibility do we see coming from either the front bench or the back bench on the Government side? I think the very utterances by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro clearly demonstrate this lack of responsibility. The Treasurer in his comments blamed the States. What an expression that is to come from a responsible Treasurer - to say that the States have failed in their responsibilities at this time. He knows perfectly well that the States have been made the mere serfs of this Government. They have been told that there will not be any more Premiers Conferences unless the Prime Minister really wants one. They have been told that henceforth Canberra will decide how finance is to be allocated. Canberra will make the judgments and not the States in just about every area in which this Government is able to perpetrate its socialist, centralist policy - a policy which undoubtedly impinges very heavily upon the capacity of the States to exercise even the limited power that they have unless there is some overall plan agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States in a proper and constructive way. That proper and constructive way is through an effective Premiers Conference. 
Let us recall that just prior to the Constitutional Convention the Prime Minister had a tea party at Kirribilli House and he told the Premiers on about 5 minutes notice that he wanted to talk to them. The Premier of Queensland was wise enough to say that he would not go in those circumstances and he stayed away. He showed good sense. But what he and other Premiers have said loud and clear is that if proper arrangements are made and a conference is convened here in Canberra they will co-operate. They made this offer before the referendum and as I understand it they have made it again since the referendum. It is open to the Prime Minister and the Government to take the necessary action to get a cohesive approach that will indeed deal with some of the essential problems with which we are faced today. But the attitude of the Treasurer frightens me and I am sure it will frighten every Australian who has heard what the Treasurer has said on behalf of the Government in this House this morning. 
We find the Government again running away from the responsibility of dealing with those things which are within its power to deal with. Are we to have a continuation of its wild, spending spree? Are we to have a continuation of a policy that cuts right at the basis of an effective economy? And if so does this mean that we can see an even greater inflationary spiral occurring next year? I fear that this is what has been put to us by the Treasurer. 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
In the very brief time remaining, I should like to refer to the Australian Post Office Telefinder Service. In August 1972 the Post Office took over the Sydney and Melbourne radio paging networks operating the Telmar system. At that time it was announced that the system would be upgraded to use miniature receivers, and Telmar closed down. Motorola Communications was nominated as the supplier of base equipment. The Post Office entered into this contract, knowing that only Motorola receivers were compatible with the system. At this stage, Motorola is still the only company which manufactures suitable receivers. In June 1973 the Postmaster-General stated that the new system would be switched on in September. Arrangements were made with distributors to market the receivers, including one arrangement with Allan Electronics Pty Ltd, which had marketed Telmar in New South Wales. This company holds some 500 firm orders from doctors, businessmen and others for paging equipment. 
The announced cost of the system, at an allinclusive rental of $16 a month for a 3-year period, is somewhat less expensive than the cost of leasing a Telmar unit plus the additional service charges which total approximately $18 a month. To date, the system has not been switched on and no information as to the projected starting date of the service has been given, apart from the earlier announcement. My concern is that, having paid such a large sum of money, the Australian Post Office, despite the earlier announcements, should at this stage be doing something positive on this important question. I suggest that it is a matter that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  might look at very closely. The Australian Post Office undoubtedly decided that the arrangement which is now pending was the best arrangement for this system which it is proposed to extend to other capital cities and Canberra, but it is very bad to find that the suppliers of the equipment are being held up, are incurring heavy losses and are retrenching staff, as well as facing a loss of confidence on the part of existing and expected clients. I appeal to the Postmaster-General to have this matter resolved speedily so that the paging service might be introduced without further delay and so that the utilisation of an expenditure of $500,000 might take effect, because Post Office earning on this investment obviously is not occurring while this situation continues. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the undertaking given by the Government concerning the provision of telephone lines up to 15 miles from an exchange to those who had applied prior to the Budget announcement which cut this length to 5 miles. Why is this undertaking not being honoured and why is a heavy charge being imposed for telephone connections on existing lines longer than 5 miles where in fact such lines are not otherwise being used? 
The Australian Country Party supports this Bill. It shares the view expressed in the other place that some provisions were too harsh and inappropriate at law. The fishing industry is a very important industry. I believe that it is an industry which is not recognised to the extent that it should be recognised. It is not appropriate today to engage in a long debate and I will content myself by saying merely that it is too infrequent that we find in this House an opportunity to refer to the fishing industry. The total concept of the industry must be recognised for an effective consideration of any element of it. I refer to the actual fishing itself; the technology which is increasingly important in this direction; the kind of vessels used; the techniques used; our very great need to intrude a greater participation in fishing to compete with other nations which under international law have the right to come into waters close to Australia and which in fact are drawing heavily upon the resources of these waters; and also our domestic approach. This is largely in the hands of State governments. 
Finance for those directly engaged in the fishing industry, for the important work of servicing that industry, for the handling of fish and for its marketing both on the Australian and export market is of great importance. The provision of adequate finance in these various fields cannot be allowed to just drift along. The work done in this direction by some State governments is quite outstanding, but more is required to be done. I believe it is important that the Commonwealth Government not only should step up its support for research but also should look afresh at some aspects of the provision of adequate finance for this industry. There is a need for legislation of the kind with which we are dealing. But I think it is fortunate that in the other place some of the objectionable sections of the Bill were amended, and I want to express my satisfaction in that direction. 
I conclude by saying that the fishing industry deserves the support of all governments in Australia. For a number of reasons it is vital that this support be given, firstly, to strengthen the industry and, secondly, to ensure that our status internationally does not wane. I remember some of the words expressed in the last few years by members of the Party which now occupies the treasury bench. I just say to them: Now is their chance to prove their worth in this field. Of course it is very easy to express words; it is another matter to take effective action. I believe that there is a need for a greater degree of close relationship between industry representatives, industry organisations and the Government. A closer relationship could yield a quicker and speedier improvement in the overall status of this very vital industry. I support the Bill. 
The Government has acted irresponsibly in its administration of the Postmaster-General's Department which now faces massive financial difficulties. In fact, this afternoon in this House we heard the admission officially for the first time that this year the expended loss on postal services will reach a staggering $35m. This is after 15 months of Labor Government. In the past year union demands for concessions which have been met have cost millions of dollars. The Government has sold out to militant unionists to the disadvantage of union members and of the general public. The management of the Post Office by the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr .Lionel Bowen)  has been a disaster. This all began with a phony claim that the Post Office was to eliminate uneconomic areas of service. It was said that this would solve the Post Office's problems, and that the previous Government was to blame for many of the difficulties that existed in the Post Office. Of course, we have seen those assertions effectively exploded by the Postmaster-General himself this afternoon. I was appalled to hear him talk about industrial relations in the way in which he did so and to say that the previous Government failed in its approach to industrial relations. What an admission for the Postmaster-General, the Minister in charge of the biggest employer department of Government, to make - to say that no normal hours are worked by Post Office employees on Saturdays and that they have to be paid overtime. Let him look at every other award for those people who work on Saturdays, and let him prove that there are not penalty rates and special arrangements for Saturday work for just about every other section of the work force of this nation. I see the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  looking a little surprised. At least he knows something about these industrial matters and he ought to have a talk with his colleague the Postmaster-General and put him right on these issues. 
What we are suffering today is the backlash of under the counter deals between the unions and the Government which have now ended up in a pretty unhappy situation. We find the early love affair really breaking up drastically. I guess this happened because  Mr Slater  got the No. 3 position in the Labor Party team in Victoria for the forthcoming Senate election. He did not like it and as a consequence resigned.  His  resignation made headlines in the Press the other day. No answer has been given to this Parliament by the Postmaster-General concerning the real breakdown in services and the sudden termination of Saturday mail deliveries and Post Office services. What he has done is to engage in a subterfuge of dilly-dally talk about what he said to the unions and what they said to him. But he has not put one constructive proposition to this House, beyond saying that in fact he has pre-empted the possible report of the royal commission on the operations of the Post Office. What he has said is that he foresees a complete breakup of the Post Office as we know it today. This evidently is a further stage in the step by step wrecking of the Post Office which the unions want. We have it from the Postmaster-General himself. Would he be game to say in this House what he said this afternoon if he did not feel that he had some union support for saying it? 
Of course we have heard his story of the phoney agency proposition and that those agencies could not have been given supplies. 
But he did not tell us whether those supplies include mail operations. Obviously they do not. He did not explain the difference between the operation of a non official post office and the proposed agencies. That difference, of course, is that non official post offices handle mail, but his proposed agencies would not have handled mail. Therefore the proposition was phoney and there was nothing in it. It was just an escape route for the Minister personally at the very delicate stage at which he found himself in his relationships with the union. He has failed to inform the Parliament of the concessions which have been granted since the Whitlam Government came to power which have really been the catalyst to give us an anticipated loss factor of $35m in this financial year. 
Let us go back to December 1973. When the present Government came to office there were in existence claims by the unions, particularly one on behalf of van drivers who wanted an increase in salary. Van drivers do not form part of the 12 grades of the Post Office service. Outside those 12 grades the drivers have a special rate. It is quite interesting that at that time the industrial trouble that had been threatened did not occur. It was eased off and a settlement occurred very quickly which had the veneer of respectability of an arbitration determination. 
I pass from that matter to a number of other very pertinent factors which have to do with the economics of the operation of the Post Office. Let us consider conduiting in the sister department of telecommunications. A virtual ban was placed on contracting which could be done at half the cost.- What is the position today? No contracting is allowed so much more expense is involved in getting this sort of work done. If we go through every facet of the operation of the Post Office step by step, we see that in 15 months it virtually has been white-anted by what the PostmasterGeneral this afternoon admitted was a pally situation between himself and the union. In relation to the disparity between the postmen and other Post Office staff he said - these were his words - to the postmen: 'Go and put up a proposition to the Department'. Of course we want good relations. We want a PostmasterGeneral who will be constructive and who will look at these problems objectively, but apparently his approach has been to say to the postmen: 'Put it up. You will not have any trouble. You will get it'. He went so far in this regard that he finally reached the stage where he agreed to the termination of Saturday mail services. He thought he had done wonderful things. He thought that he had satisfied the unions and that he had achieved for them in 15 months something that they had aimed to achieve for years. But there was a backlash. That backlash was the dissatisfaction of two other unions led by that very militant man, Slater, who was determined to get into politics and at that stage suffered a disappointment. So now the Minister and the nation have on their hands a crisis in the Post Office which will not be settled easily. 
I think this Parliament must be dismayed this afternoon to find that in this crisis situation there is no positive approach on the part of the Government. We have the circumstance where the strongest union has made a demand on the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  We have the circumstance where the PostmasterGeneral this afternoon has not referred to that demand. He has not told this Parliament exactly what he foresees or whether in fact any negotiations are being carried on at all. One can only conclude that no negotiations are in progress. Certainly there has been no report of them. Therefore, it is obvious that service will not be reinstated, that the existing disability within the postal service will endure, that the Government will take no action to remedy it whatsoever and that all the Government will do now is to allow the unions to run over the top of the Government and increase the $3 5m loss that has been forecast. That has been suggested, and in fact admitted, by the PostmasterGeneral this afternoon. 
The critical issue in this situation is that it has 'been leaked through  Mr Slater  that in order to carry this loss the postal rate for ordinary letters would have to exceed something of the order of 9c or 10c. There was not one word of that from the Postmaster-General. All we can see is a complete shambles, a complete breakdown of services in the country and city, the depletion of the one great institution in Australia in 15 months at the hands of Labor and the sheer humbug of the Government saying that this problem was inherited from the previous Government. There is no proof of that and no evidence whatsoever to support it. But there is plenty of evidence that there is a complete failure now even to make a tacit approach to settle this crisis with any advantage at all to the public, the nation, or anyone else. 
I rise to voice my protest at the extraordinary approach adopted by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  in moving a motion to curtail debate without stating his intentions. If the motion were carried he could quite well rise a little later and all of these Bills would go through. Is this the way that the Whitlam Government proposes to handle the business of the national Parliament? After all, the business of the House is in the hands of the Government, but it also bears the responsibility of ensuring that both sides of the Parliament have a fair go. We have not been getting a fair go. 
I have no hesitation in challenging the Leader of the House, despite all the references to 23 years in office of the previous Government, to tell us of any occasion on which similar action was taken by the previous Government. The Minister knows that there was none. There was always negotiation between the Government and the Opposition as to the number of speakers and the requirements of the Government in terms of the time to be taken for the passage of the legislation or other debates. There was a gentlemen's agreement, and that position could still operate; but it seems to me that that is not sufficient for the present Government. It is a reflection on the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Leader of the House and the whole Cabinet that it wants to run the Parliament in this way. I am not listed to speak on these Bills; so I believe that I can express an independent point of view. Many other members are listed to speak, and for good reason. 
These Bills are vital to the Australian nation. The Leader of the House has said that their subject matter was debated for 14 hours in the previous session and that many members will speak now who spoke previously. That is sheer humbug because the course of events since the last debate has changed the whole spectrum. An additional Bill has been introduced and it is right and proper to have a full debate. If this House is to be reduced to a rubber stamp at the whim of the Government by its taking action without any arrangement as to time, that is the end of the real principles of democracy in the national Parliament. If that is the Government's intention, the Opposition must retaliate by using the Standing Orders in every way possible to ensure that the Government gives the Parliament proper opportunity for debate and consideration of legislation. I am certain that on this side of the House that approach will be adopted. 
The Leader of the House has treated the Opposition very shabbily in what he has just done. He is seeking to establish a principle which, if followed through in this session, will reduce the effectiveness of debate in this Parliament to a level not experienced since its creation. Certainly it is not justified. There is a new approach to politics in Australia today, as exemplified by the attitude of the Prime Minister in relation to matters that come within the scope of this Parliament. Furtherhe now wants to tell all the parliaments in the States of Australia what to do, how they should run their business and so on. Undoubtedly this is part of a plan to change completely the procedures of this House. I believe it is my responsibility and the responsibility of every honourable member on this side of the House to speak up in opposition to that kind of action. If we do not, we are failing in our duty as elected representatives of the people and,  Mr Speaker,  in our obligation to you and your predecessors, because it is your responsibility to uphold the Standing Orders. 
I rise briefly to support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  I want to make 2 points: Firstly, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  in a very friendly way, said that if we do not have a sitting that begins before 2 o'clock on a Tuesday the public will think that we work for only a few hours. Surely, after all his years of experience in this Parliament, he ought to be the last person to put that construction on the actual responsibilities of  a  member of Parliament. I believe that it typifies his failure to recognise just what is involved in honourable members attending to their electorates .and attending the sittings of this House here in Canberra. 
That raises another point. Since the advent last year of new hours of sitting which mean that the House does not sit beyond 1 1 p.m., he has had to find more days for honourable members to spend in Canberra. This has greatly limited the capacity of honourable members to service their electorates. It must be a matter of concern to both the Government and the Opposition. I remind the House of a question asked this morning by a Government supporter concerning accommodation in Parliament House. I think the implication was that the services provided for honourable members were limited in relation to the work load that they have to carry. I hope that the all-Party committee which it is suggested should have a look at this matter will take into account, along with sitting hours, the facilities for honourable members to do their job, to attend committees and to be effective on those committees. This must surely involve consideration of the manpower resource for honourable members te work effectively as representatives of their respective electorates. Undoubtedly the power base should be this national Parliament. But we find too often that members cannot get their work done as they would like to do it because of inadequate accommodation, and yet we find a tremendous growth in the other services within this building. We find that the administration has expanded tremendously, but not the administration directly related to the work that a member of Parliament does. I think that it is in this direction that a great deal of serious attention must be directed and perhaps,  Mr Speaker,  you yourself might have a look at this important matter. If we are to conform to the new hours that have been proposed, I believe it is imperative that there be an additional provision to assist members with their office work. Certainly, it needs updating in regard to the opportunity members have to call upon not only typists but also research assistants. Certainly the Parliamentary Library is to be commended on what is now available to a member but the limiting factor is in terms of time to go personally to the Library and to follow through what one might set out to do in that sphere of research. All this impinges upon the requirement, really, of being in this chamber as much as possible. 
I should like to remind the Leader of the House that in recent times there has been increasing evidence of lack of attendance in this chamber of both Government and, I will admit, Opposition members. But I should like to say on behalf of my colleagues who receive a lot of criticism from the Minister - he often criticises the Australian Country Party - that the Country Party's record of attendance in this House certainly far exceeds that of the other parties. If we have a look right now we see evidence of that, yet we are the ones who have the problems of time and distance to a far greater extent than many other members, particularly those who come from metropolitan areas. But I do appeal to the Minister to endeavour to take this into account when he is making determinations concerning sitting hours and days. I hope that if a committee is to look at this problem - it is suggested that this will be done - it will be done at a very early date and that the whole aspect of what is involved in a member doing 'his job is taken into account, and that the matter is not passed over as was done earlier in the debate with the suggestion by the Leader of the House that people outside Parliament might think that we were working only a few hours a day if we were not in fact sitting in the chamber before 2 p.m. on Tuesdays. The facts of the matter are that most committees begin their sittings at 9 a.m. and, of course, relating that to the time of travel and all the other responsibilities of a member, certainly it would be a very wrong impression indeed if that were to be the view taken by the public. 
I rise tonight to speak concerning the very serious and drastic flooding that has occurred in the northern rivers of New South Wales. I regret very much the disaster that has befallen that part of the countryside in the electorates of my colleague the honourable member for Richmond and Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  my colleague the honourable member for Lyne.  (Mr Lucock)  and myself. I believe it is important to emphasise the excellent work Chat has been done by the State emergency services assisted by the Royal Australian! Air Force and the Army. In the face of the second worst flood in 80 years and in some localities the worst flood ever recorded, the service that has been rendered has, I believe, saved lives, helped to protect property and has been the kind of undertaking of which any Australian would be proud. 
My purpose in rising tonight is to draw attention to some very serious problems which the flood victims now face. I refer to the very great problem of saving thousands of head of livestock which at the moment are marooned in flood refuge areas. In some instances up to 4,000 head of cattle have been stranded in a very small space - just standing room which has been churned into deep mud. There is no way in which these animals can be fed because of the conditions unless special help is arranged. Tonight I have received urgent calls from the lower Richmond and lower Clarence Rivers asking whether fodder drops could be arranged. I understand that the RAAF has already been requested by the State emergency services to provide appropriate aricraft, such as Caribou and helicopters, for this work. But the difficulty has arisen because of the arrangements between the Commonwealth and the State governments concerning the provision of funds for flood relief. In order that the many thousands of head of starving stock can be saved it is essential that fodder be provided as part of the relief provision - in other words, as part of the provision of finance from the Government. 
It is quite impossible for individual farmers to make arrangements to order fodder and to have it accounted for as is now required. I appeal to the Government to take some urgent action within 24 hours to solve this problem. It has been the practice in past floods for fodder to be dropped during the emergency period and for that to continue until stock owners are able to identify their stock and evacuate them out of the flood area. Because of the enormity of this flood, this is a very difficult problem and because of the second cyclone which occurred, the flood is a very prolonged one. In , fact at Maclean on the lower Clarence the flood waters were still rising late this afternoon. In many other areas rivers have reached a record peak height and have remained at that peak height, falling only one or two inches in the past 2 days. It will be a long time, in terms of the period in which stock can remain alive, before the owners can effectively look after the problem. Even then I believe it will be most difficult for them. 
I hope that the Government will see fit to make available Army personnel and Army equipment, perhaps in the form of suitable transport and the like, first of all to assist in getting access to areas when the water has fallen and secondly to assist in removing the stock to areas where they can be put on pasture and sustained in the recovery period. I do not think any similar problem of the magnitude of this flood has been encountered before on the northern rivers of New South Wales. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced at the beginning of this week that relief would be available and that everything possible would be done for the flood victims. I wish at this early stage to draw attention to the difficulty facing small farmers and small business men who, under the existing provisions of flood relief, are excluded from any grant assistance unless they are virtually bankrupt or insolvent. I believe this is a very harsh exclusion of these people, whose viability makes it quite impossible for them to be afforded even the low interest short term loans that are proposed because of the added financial burdens and extreme difficulty they would face in meeting these commitments. 
Perhaps I should just make this comparison. The level of income of many of these people has now dropped beyond the level of unemployment benefits which is now provided by the Department of Social Security these days. In that circumstance I believe it is proper that a fresh look should be taken at the circumstances in which these people find themselves. Small farmers are obliged to stay on their farms. They must do that if they are to attempt rehabilitation which could take 6 to 9 months because of the serious damage that has been sustained. If they are excluded during that time from any grant assistance at all they will be facing extreme hardship. Likewise their families, if they are young, will, of course, face an impossible situation. But those people who do not own properties and who have perhaps worked in some job or another in the same area can tomorrow turn up, make an application for employment, and as employment is probably not immediately available they are at once entitled to unemployment benefit relief. 
I believe that the comparison between these 2 considerations points up very clearly the urgency for a review of the conditions under which assistance is given for flood victims. In addition we find that local services are very severely affected on this occasion and there will be a need for some special steps to be taken to assist the local authorities to clear the roads, to restore communications and to get the community back to some semblance of order. I hope that the Government will in no way stint what it has promised to do in this regard. I hope that what I am saying will not be regarded as a criticism. I believe it is my duty to explain the position to this House. 
Earlier this evening I forwarded to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  an urgent message referring to the matters that I have raised tonight. I believe that the Prime Minister will have the opportunity tomorrow of referring to the appropriate Ministers and departments the several matters that I have raised. I urge upon him the importance of this matter receiving top priority. We know that serious floods have beset many parts of Australia during the last 3 months. We know too that much has been done to meet this crisis. But what I am speaking about tonight refers to particular circumstances and to an extreme situation and I hope that my remarks will be regarded in that light. I will not attempt to make an assessment in terms of dollars of the loss that has been sustained but I can say that it will exceed by far any similar loss due to flood in New South Wales. The enormousness of this crisis has to be seen to be believed. 
Yesterday afternoon I flew by light aircraft over about 300 miles of the badly affected &lt; area. I was quite shocked to see the conditions and to see exactly what was happening along the river valley and in the flood-prone parts of northern New South Wales. Rood mitigation has helped tremendously. It did a tremendous job. But the fact of the matter is that this flood exceeded the heights for which the flood mitigation works were really designed and except for the city of Grafton which was saved by levee banks practically every floodprone part of the 3 river valleys on the North Coast and an additional 2 others which were partly affected were a tragic sight and one that I am sure everyone at the Federal level as well as the State level will be concerned about and will want to see assistance given to the maximum extent possible. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: What action has the Government taken to re-open post offices on Saturdays and to resume telegram deliveries and mail facilities on Saturdays? Has the Government taken any steps to deal with this disruption of postal and telecommunication services? What has been the Government's response to the ultimatum issued by the postal unions in these matters 3 weeks ago? 
The Bill before the House is of very great significance because it facilitates the full administrative arrangements necessary in the self-government of Papua New Guinea in respect of the fishing industry. I am sure that this House would want to assist the Government of Papua New Guinea to the greatest possible extent in the smoothest possible transference of powers of this kind. The fishing industry has particular significance to Papua New Guinea. Firstly, there is the circumstance that fishing is really part and parcel of the sustenance of very many people around the coastline of Papua New Guinea, and in particular it is of great importance to their welfare and their future stability in terms not only of sustenance but also of the gradual development of commercial fishing. In that area lying between the territory of Papua New Guinea and Australia there has been a degree of concern as to the future of the actual line of demarcation; in other words, the border between the 2 territories. This in itself raises very significant considerations. This legislation does not deal directly with that matter but the import of it does relate to that matter. 
I believe it is a matter of extreme importance from the point of view of our relationships with Papua New Guinea to co-operate in every way to ensure that the administration of the fishing industry avoids any of the sensitive areas of administration which so often cause friction between countries. If we consider the history of fishing around the world, there is no doubt that the most sensitive area in terms of the administration of fishing in proclaimed waters of one country or another, or, for that matter, fishing in international waters, raises great complexities. We recall how quite recently there have been great traumas in the North Sea, in fact to the extent where there have been almost open hostilities between one country and another. This is a matter to which this Parliament should pay special attention because the early relationships between our 2 countries must, as far as we can make it possible, be harmonious and be effective from the point of view of avoiding at all costs any misunderstandings. There are very good reasons for us to recognise that currently a border does exist and that, who knows, the actual border may or may not be varied. I certainly do not want it to be varied from its present location. 
We must take another aspect into consideration, namely, the carry through of what I was saying about the importance of fishing to the individual Papua New Guineans along the coastline. Those of us who have visited that country have observed over the years the skill and attributes of the indigenous people in their attempts to win from the sea food for themselves, their families and their villages. This in turn produces for them very necessary protein and virtually is an indispensable aspect of their well being. With the advent of scientific techniques in fishing around the world and with the gradual development of standards in Papua New Guinea, undoubtedly a situation will arise in which more sophisticated equipment will be used than hitherto has been the case. The time will come when the spear and the barbed apparatus used from a trimaran or some other kind of vessel will be replaced by the sheer weight of the need to follow through with technology and an extension to these people of the results of research around the world. I believe that the Minister for Northern 
Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  who is at the table is conscious of this point because he did emphasise that this Bill deals particularly with matters relating to boats and their use. This, at once raises the very important consideration of the provisions of this legislation and legislation which I have not seen but which was referred to in the Minister's second reading speech. I refer to the legislation which has been enacted in the Parliament of Papua New Guinea. I presume that there is a close relationship between the 2 pieces of legislation. I presume too that we have assisted to make possible the best law for Papua New Guinea and in so doing have ensured that the interpretation of that law will apply in the interests of both countries, because it would be folly indeed for us to have a situation in which there was any variation in interpretation of the fishing laws of Australia and the fishing laws of Papua New Guinea. 
I believe that it is proper for me to make one particular observation in this regard. My own electorate is a coastal electorate in northern New South Wales. It has some 200 miles to 250 miles of coastline, and over a long period I have had a close knowledge of the fishing industry on the east coast of Australia. In the last 10 years, there have been numerous occasions on which difficult problems relating to the intrusion into Australian waters of foreign fishing vessels of either Japanese or Taiwanese origin have arisen. Very often it has been necessary for both Federal and State authorities to undertake special patrol work and to try to persuade the operators of foreign fishing vessels to observe the territorial waters and, in so doing, to observe the fishing laws of Australia. These intrusions have caused a good deal of friction between Australian fishermen and the operators of foreign fishing vessels. Under Australian conditions, we have usually found a fairly calm solution to the problem, notwithstanding the threats that have issued from time to time from professional fishermen who have said that if they find one foreign fishing vessel that is cutting the anchors from their fish traps or interfering with their fish traps, set lines, set nets or whatever it may be, and if they can get close enough to that vessel then woe betide the persons they find, no matter what their nationality. These are Australians who are usually pretty responsible people. One can well imagine similar situations arising in the waters of Papua New Guinea, bearing in mind that undoubtedly commercial fishing ventures will be developed in Papua New Guinea waters. These commercial ventures could be undertaken for the very good reason that the fishing grounds of Papua New Guinea have already been assessed and shown to have good resources in the various categories of fish. 
Commercial enterprises, undoubtedly, will become a factor in the growing economy of Papua New Guinea. Certainly, I would assume that Australia, as the country that has the greatest responsibility to assist Papua New Guinea, would want to help with the development of an effective viable commercial fishing industry in that country. In so doing, we need to ensure that fishing operations based there do not unduly intrude into the waters of the Gulf of Carpentaria or into our own sphere of fishing which is so important to the commercial fishing industry of Australia. I believe that there can be an effective relationship between our 2 countries provided that Papua New Guinea does not grant rights that are too easily won, or should I say that do not involve reasonable conditions and restraints on those who might want to go into ventures that the Government of Papua New Guinea may propose or that others may propose to it. I think at once of the problems and complexities of the joint ventures in northern Australian waters a few years ago. The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  was a great critic in those days. He attacked the previous Government for not having effectively allowed joint ventures in fishing in northern Australian waters. At that time he did not put forward clear reasons for his criticism but I hasten to assure the House that my recollection is clear. The previous Government's administration of its joint ventures was most effective and the Government was able to protect the Australian fishing industry from any undue intrusion. At the same time during the period of the joint venture operation we were able to gain benefit from outside people coming to Australia to join in ventures. 
Under Australian enterprise and Australian leadership some very effective commercial fishing operations have developed in the Gulf. I find that fishermen from my own electorate go to that area regularly. Some of them have made their stay there permanent - as permanent as it can be in a place like Karumba or Normanton. Their interests are important to Australia. They are important to the future success of a viable commercial fishing industry. We do not want to see undue intrusion into those waters by interests based on Papua New Guinea. I trust that the Government has considered this aspect carefully in the drafting of this legislation and in its negotiations with the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
There are of course other considerations. The future growth prospects of the fishing industry in the South Pacific depends on the support the industry receives. At the same time there is a need to ensure that there is not over-fishing or exploitation but that an effective industry is developed in the South Pacific. There is a need for a better type of vessel - in many instances for a larger type of vessel - that carries modern, sophisticated equipment such as sonar to make it possible for fishing grounds to be utilised effectively and for species of fish and fishing zones that should be avoided to be avoided. I hope that we will be co-operating closely with Papua New Guinea to ensure that it too observes this most necessary precaution - a precaution that could well mean that in the long term we preserve an effective supply of fish, fish oil and other fish products to sustain the protein requirements of big consumers of fish and at the same time to participate in the world market for the supply of fish from the seas. 
To achieve this situation we must keep 2 factors in mind. Firstly, we must ensure that the best scientific advice is followed and, secondly, that we co-operate with Papua New Guinea in the construction and the standards for construction of boats. The scope of ship building in Papua New Guinea is limited. I can recall seeing a small slipway at Madang where efforts were being made to construct fishing boats of the kind that could be operated in the waters of Papua New Guinea. I do not know what has happened to that venture over the last couple of years but it is the kind of venture that we should do all we can to support and encourage, not in terms of creating competition for our own fishermen but in terms of creating a capacity in fishing that will ensure that the waters of Papua New Guinea are not unduly exploited but that an effective approach, to the care of fishing grounds is considered. I hope that this legislation will also take into account the need for close Australian liaison with Papua New 
Guinea on standards for boats and standards in the administration of fishing laws. I acknowledge that the Minister indicated that this aspect had already been under consideration in the drafting of the legislation. 
Finally Australia, of course, is assisting Papua New Guinea financially to a very great extent. I hope that where it is proper so to do, we will keep in mind that some of the finance provided as part of our assistance to that country will be directed especially to the fishing industry, and in particular towards assisting that fishing industry to develop standards compatible with our own and a relationship compatible with our own. In the long run this will produce for the area north of Australia and the regions around Papua New Guinea, which are important to Australia, a fishing industry in the best interests of both countries. 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Labour. He will recall telling me last September that he intended to put to Cabinet a new scheme to help reduce unemployment in rural areas, but that he was having some difficulties. In view of the fact that unemployment in nonmetropolitan areas remains high, can the Minister indicate when this scheme is likely to begin and why it has taken him so long to get action in this matter? 
-I rise on behalf of the Australian Country Party to support strongly the Queensland Flood Relief Bill and the New South Wales Flood Relief Bill before the House. I have been asked by the Leader of the Australian Country Party, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  particularly to express his support and of course at the same time his concern in this very important matter. The floods in Queensland were devastating indeed. I believe that words expressed here would be quite inadequate completely and properly to describe the disaster which has befallen so many people in that State. In northern New South Wales, similarly, there are individual cases of hardship just as bad as those in Queensland. The floods of 1974 will leave for many years to come a trail of loss, heartbreak, devastation and, I believe, a reminder to governments, present and in the future, of their responsibilities to do more to meet the problems of natural disaster. 
The sum of money set aside in these 2 Bills is substantial. I am pleased to note that it is not limited to the precise amounts that have been referred to because undoubtedly as the problems of rehabilitation are in the process of being met, the relief that will flow from these measures will be such that some reassessment undoubtedly will become necessary. I want to express congratulations to all those who played a part in the immediate relief requirements and of course in meeting the distress that arose at the time of the disaster. I refer to the Royal Australian Air Force, the Army, the civil emergency authorities in both States, the State police forces and to an almost uncountable number of volunteers who joined spontaneously with the authorities to meet the crisis and worked tirelessly to sustain people during that period and then to cope with their immediate rehabilitation. But of course the work is far from over. It will go on for many months to come. 
In the limited time it is not possible to refer to all the problems which have arisen, but 1 want to draw attention to some aspects. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  made specific reference to the problems confronting owner-farmers. I want to emphasise that these are not just problems; they involve a challenge. Unless we can help primary producers to rehabilitate, and unless we can ensure that every property in Queensland and northern New South Wales that has been devastated is restored, we will be letting down the pioneers of Australia and the people who established those properties and those enterprises. It is certainly inadequate to limit the assistance to $40,000 in terms of a loan only. At the earliest opportunity the Leader of the Country Party visited many of the devastated areas. Then a group of members, as a committee, visited the Queensland flood areas. We tried to do this in a way that did not intrude upon the efforts that were being made but merely to show our interest and our determination in this Parliament to fight for the interests of these people. 
At a later time in northern New South Wales the electorates of Richmond and Cowper were severely devastated. With my colleague the right honourable member for Richmond we held meetings with people who had suffered in the floods and those who represented the communities on the northern rivers of New South Wales. Those discussions drew to our attention, as the local members, some of the problems which have yet to be faced and some of the deficiencies in the flood relief scheme. I want to refer briefly to these. Firstly, we have the circumstance in which the small businessman is far too limited in terms of the assistance that is being provided. The term of the loans which are being offered is too short and should be reviewed. I refer to the plight of the small farmers who lost their immediate income and who, because they are farmers, do not qualify for unemployment benefits that flow to other people in the community under the existing provisions of the requirements and regulations of the Department of Social Security. I believe that this imposes a hardship on this section of the community that should be overcome with a mere administrative decision by a Minister or the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
Of course there are problems involving alterations to the Income Tax Act. I appeal for the restoration of provisions of sections 75 and 76 referring to plant and improvements which were repealed in the last Budget. I believe that these provisions should be restored in the case of flood victims on country properties to allow them at least to have that benefit during the rehabilitation period. There are a number of other matters. I think it is very important that special arrangements be made to assist people with essential materials such as building materials, wire for fencing and other supplies which are in great demand because of the floods but which are in short supply. Restoration is being very greatly hampered because of this. I do not think that it would be asking too much for some special arrangements to be made to deal with these problems. Certainly the Federal Government has the means of doing it. I believe that it could, through the Department of Supply or some other department, appropriately assist in this matter. 
Members of Parliament, not only some of those who have spoken and those to whom I have referred from my own party, but also members from the other place, met members of the Country Party from flood areas of Queensland and New South Wales in Parliament House, I think 3 weeks ago. At that time we drew up a list of suggestions which were conveyed to the Prime Minister. On behalf of my own constituents and on behalf of people in northern New South Wales generally I forwarded a telegram to the Prime Minister cataloguing some of these requirements. Incredibly, I have received nothing more than a simple acknowledgement. I had hoped that the Minister for Northern Development would have mentioned, when he spoke this afternoon, some of these matters but apparently something has gone wrong in Government administration to the extent that these matters have not been conveyed to him. I am sure that if he knew about them he would have referred to them. After all, he has a great knowledge of country matters and I think that he would be the appropriate minister to make some observations and to give some indication of the extent to which consideration is being given to these very important issues that arise in terms of flood restoration and flood relief. 
Much has been said about the need to ensure that the emergency services are improved in the future and for facilities such as helicopters and the like to be readily available. I think that this also requires some kind of permanent organisation at Federal level to coordinate and to assist the States, to ensure that there is no breakdown of the kind that occurred. It was, of course, overcome, but in the process there were delays. I am immediately reminded of the fact that within a few days of the flood there was a call by a number of supporters of the Government, Cabinet Ministers and others, for the creation of a national disaster fund and the setting up of a proper system to assist in emergencies of this kind. It is very disappointing that subsequently to that in this House the Prime Minister himself said that consideration had been given to the matter of establishing a national disaster fund but that the Government believed the complexities were too great and therefore it could not proceed any further with consideration of this matter. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the important question of a national disaster fund. In his contribution to this debate the Minister for Northern Development made fairly strong charges against the insurance companies. I thought the charges were somewhat unjustified, because after all the insurance companies over the years have played thenpart. Under their charter and the arrangements under which they operate they have properly served the Australian community, but obviously some new scheme would be required to cover national disasters. The insurance companies could well play a part in such a scheme, but the scheme would have to be initiated by the Federal Government. I hope that there will be a proper inquiry into this matter and a proper relationship established between the respective interests; that is, the Federal and State governments, the insurance institutions and the respective government departments. I do not think it can be envisaged that complete compensation could be provided for natural disasters of any kind, but some reasonable cover should be provided to ensure that losses do not affect too greatly the viability of individuals or enterprises. 
I leave that matter because time is limited. Earlier I referred to some of the problems which immediately confront flood victims and which do not appear to be covered by the present relief measures in either Queensland or New South Wales. I briefly return to that question. Small farmers who have lost their immediate income due to the floods should be treated as unemployed and should receive unemployment benefits if applied for. I believe that this would be a fair and reasonable proposition. Small businessmen affected by the floods should be offered a concessional loan at a low rate of interest, but a loan made over a period of three to five years seems inadequate. I believe that the term of the loans provided for in the Bills should be extended to 10 years. There should be an extension of time for the payment of taxation and provisional taxation for those people who have suffered severe loss and can justify a claim to have this kind of concession granted to them. 
I referred earlier to sections 75 and 76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, covering plant and improvements, which were repealed at the time of the last Budget. I believe these should be restored for flood victims because in so many instances - typical of them was one that was referred to by the Minister for 
National Development this afternoon - this kind of concession would be a great help in the restoration of the very severely damaged rural areas, particularly in Queensland and northern New South Wales. I think too that there should be a review of the decision that local government authorities must find 20 per cent of the cost of road restoration, bridge repairs and the like made necessary by the floods. Finding this money imposes a fairly heavy burden on ratepayers. I am referring specifically to a figure applicable to New South Wales. I am not clear whether that figure is applicable to Queensland, but if the same figure applies - we understand from the statement of the Prime Minister that it does - there ought to be some special consideration in this direction, because the ratepayers in the flooded areas are the losers and in turn are in great difficulty in footing the bill for rate contributions towards flood damage restoration costs. I think special arrangements should be made to ensure the availability of materials to repair flood damage, whether it be in the public sector or the private sector. I think that flood relief assistance to non-government institutions - I refer to private hospitals, nursing homes and schools - should be considered on a special basis. These organisations are not profit making to the extent that they have the wherewithal to meet the heavy cost of restoration work where this is necessary. 
In conclusion I want to say one word about flood mitigation. I have been associated practically all my life with efforts to achieve effective flood mitigation on the northern rivers of New South Wales. In the recent disaster flood mitigation by its success, has proved its worth beyond doubt, because the losses iti northern New South Wales have been minimised greatly. The $71m-odd provided for flood relief by the current legislation is a colossal amount compared with what has been spent on flood mitigation. I believe that where it is practical and proper to carry out flood mitigation works in the future effective schemes should be debated in this House and put into effect. I refer to schemes such as those initiated by the Government drawn from the present Opposition over the last five or six years. I think that a very good example has been set. We certainly want to ensure that on a national level this is followed through. Of course there is a great necessity currently to recognise the need for additional funds to complete flood mitigation works already com menced. I hope this matter will receive serious consideration by whatever Government is on the Treasury bench in the ensuing months and that when the next Budget is being prepared there will be an adequate allocation for flood mitigation funds to be spent in the respective States where schemes of an effective nature can be put forward by State governments. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.7)- I support the 2 Bills before the House, because the severe flooding which occurred in the early part of the year affected much of New South Wales and a large part of my electorate as well as Queensland, which has already received most of the consideration of the previous speakers. During the whole period of the disastrous flooding no one was more closely connected with the tragedy, suffering and financial ruin caused by the flood than I was. During the height of the floods my own family shared the concern of many of the people in the caravan park at Walgett. The water, which was being held back by a levee bank, was six to eight feet higher than the level of the caravan park itself. The frightening thing was not only that this six to eight feet of water was on the other side of the levee bank but also that it extended some 60 miles back from the levee bank. I can assure honourable members that my family and I certainly shared some of the fear and some of the financial loss, but not to the extent that we would consider making a claim under the provisions of this Bill. However, owing to the inquiries that have been coming into my office I feel that some claims less justifiable than mine will be made. 
Many people who witnessed the fury and the danger of the flood not only worked on the flood relief committees but also made personal donations to flood relief appeals. One woman in the Walgett area, after being on the roof of her house for 2 days was rescued by helicopter and brought to Walgett with very little more than what she stood up in. The first thing she did when she arrived was to offer her services to the civil defence authorities making tea and biscuits for those who were assisting people marooned in flooded areas. I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that the Bill that authorises the payment of $5. 5m to assist New South Wales in financing the cost of measures designed to alleviate the effect of the flood will be received with much appreciation. However, as 2 Bills have come before the House together, one cannot help making some comparisons. Perhaps a member whose electorate was so greatly affected by the flood might have a duty to do that, mindful of the fact that $S.Sm was allocated to New South Wales and $66m to Queensland. Of course, we are all aware that the flooding in New South Wales was not as severe as that in Queensland. But one wonders what was the range of measures upon which the New South Wales Government sought assistance from the Australian Government. For instance, why did the Queensland Government provide loans to primary producers estimated to cost only $4m from the assistance given to that State by the Federal Government while New South Wales provided $4.65m in the form of loans to primary producers from the assistance of $5. 5m provided by the Federal Government? I ask those States to have a look at the way in which the money is allocated because it seems to me that a very large proportion of the assistance given to the States should go to primary producers in the form of loans. If this is done, primary producers will be able to get back into production and when this happens all the people of the area will be assisted. 
It is very pleasing to note that the Commonwealth's share of the loans to primary producers is to be given interest free. I hope that the States take notice of this and that they will live up to their responsibilities in regard to interest rates. We have heard much from the Opposition benches and from the States about long term low interest loans to primary producers. Surely there has never been more justification for such loans than on this occasion. I believe that the Australian Government has shown the way and that there can be no justification for high interest rates. Maybe the reason why such a small provision has been made for loans to primary producers is that the States cannot justify higher interest rates. 
It is gratifying to read in the Bills that relief will be provided for personal hardship, including immediate relief for emergency repairs to houses. The Bills provide for assistance to local government as well as assistance to States. One of the big concerns in smaller towns is that the levee banks that were built during the last floods have not yet been paid for because of some State regulation about the banks being built to a certain standard. These levee banks have withstood probably the greatest flood that has been known in the history of the white man. Yet, the people concerned with building the banks have not been able to attract their part of assistance from the State Government. I hope that when the New South Wales Government was discussing the various categories of estimated expenditures it did not overlook the mining industry and the miners, because some of these people - particularly those miners at Lightning Ridge - were seriously affected by the floods. I remember receiving a telephone call asking me to have a look at what is called the 'six mile' at Lightning Ridge, where the miners were cut off from their mines and their treatment plant. From a distance of about a quarter of a mile they could see 5 feet of water flooding their machinery. These miners built a road with their own plant in order to reach their machinery and treatment plant. I am told that the miners are still unable to enter some of the mines because of flooding. Surely these people would be entitled to some consideration under any relief scheme. 1 think it can be said that the amounts of money that the Australian Government is providing under these 2 Bills dwarf any previous expenditure or assistance provided in respect of any single disaster. I was very surprised to hear the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  criticise the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  They were the 2 men who assisted me most when I had occasion to contact the Federal Cabinet to get various planes, including Caribou aircraft and helicopters, to go to the flood area. The Minister for Science also went to no end of trouble to visit the area. The Minister went with me and looked at every facet connected with the flooding. I remember that he even had long discussions about some of the Aboriginal problems. It is gratifying to know that long before these Bills were introduced the Government had shown its concern for the welfare of the people and had provided this help. 
It is very gratifying to know that during the height of the floods there was so much co-operation between the State civil defence authorities and the Commonwealth civil defence authorities as well as between the Australian Government and the State governments. I would say that the co-operation was excellent just about all round, including the co-operation given by the general public. Unfortunately, of course, there were some disagreements in some . areas which claimed that they should have had more aircraft or helicopters. People rang the civil defence authorities and asked for five or six tents whereas the plane which was flying to the area could provide them with only one tent. But, all in all, I think that Australia can be proud of what happened in the national emergency that we had in the floods. I hope that the next time we have a big flood we will have a national disaster scheme under which people will know just what their entitlement will be, what assistance they will receive and how much compensation for damage they will receive. 
Some time ago there was an isolated flood in my electorate. It is true that when big floods occur everybody takes notice and the people involved receive some assistance. But in the case of smaller floods it seems that some people are forgotten. I remember a flood which occurred in the Mildura-Dareton area and in which some of the blocks were flooded and homes were washed away. Of course, that flood received only half the publicity that is given to a major flood. I do not want to take the time of other members who wish to participate in this debate. I hope that the Government will give consideration to some of the matters that T have raised and especially to the setting up of a national disaster fund. 
I rise because of my great concern at the shameful attitude of the Government in the present crisis facing nursing homes in Australia. I am particularly concerned with the fate of nursing homes in New South Wales. The failure of the Labor Government to increase benefit payments is forcing convalescent homes to close. A major crisis confronts patients, staff and the management of these homes. This afternoon we witnessed the total inadequacy of the Government to face up to this issue. We, of course, were treated to a political run-out by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on this vital matter. He tried to blame the Opposition for the present state of affairs. Yet we find that despite a public statement last week and some further murmurings in the House today, there is no clear statement as to the real intentions of the Government in this vital matter. 1 am concerned because in New South Wales - and I refer in particular to homes in my electorate - the wages of the staffs have risen this week by 35 per cent. Yet the announcement made last week by the Minister obviously did not take this properly into account. Today these institutions are forced either to tell patients to leave and to find somewhere else to live, perhaps in a public hospital, or. as is happening at the Coffs Harbour Convalescent . Home and the Port Macquarie Convalescent Home in the electorate of my colleague the member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  and no doubt at many others, the staff has gone to the management and made an offer. That offer is not to take the wage rise until this Government takes some effective action. Of course there would be a limit as to how long that concession could continue. This is being done by proper arrangements in which the staff, by written consent, have made these concessions to the owners and the managements of these institutions. This is the kind of thing that is happening today and is being completely ignored by this Government which is hell bent on forcing a socialist health scheme on this country. Yet when it should take a simple action it fails to do so. I think that this is clear evidence of just where we would find the needy sections of the community if in fact the overall health plan were to come into effect. 
I have been appalled at what I have found to be the real circumstances in this matter. For a very long time patients in New South Wales - those in the pensioner bracket anyhow - have been unable to find in full the balance between the fees set by the Department of Health and the amount contributed firstly by the Commonwealth benefit and secondly by the pension they receive. So the institutions have had to carry debts amounting to very large sums of money. I can instance one patient who at this stage has a bill amounting to about S400. He is a pensioner and there is no hope of him paying it. That case along with many others has created the circumstances where something like S7m is the total amount by which these privately operated institutions are in the red because this Government has failed to take action and is still failing to take the kind of action that will solve the problem. 
I have been approached not only by the patients, staff and proprietors of the privately operated nursing homes but also by community leaders who are absolutely staggered at what they find occurring in their local communities because of this incredible situation - one which, I suppose, could properly be described as the cruellest action ever to be taken. And it is being taken by a government which professes to look after the little man and the needy but which in fact has turned its back on them and is leaving them without any hope or arrangements, and it has certainly broken its promise. During the election campaign it promised that it would provide a special allowance, a contribution or what have you to the homes which would leave a pensioner patient at least $4 to $5 a week for himself. Is that happening? Of course it is not. I received a letter from the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  dated 7 June. This was signed just before his announcement of the proposed increase. I want to quote one incredible paragraph in that letter. The Minister refers to inquiries I have made on behalf of a  Mr Heinz  of Coffs Harbour. He says:  ...  Mr Heinz  is presently receiving the maximum standard rate pension of S52 per week. In addition, he is receiving supplementary assistance of S2.50 . . . 
Since when have we had a pension rate of S52 a week? Perhaps I could concede that a typographical error has been made. But it seems to me that this is the kind of confusion that the Minister has been throwing around. 
He was prepared to come into this House this . afternoon and attack the Opposition. I therefore say that I cannot regard this as an error. This is simply a deliberate tactic to try to distort the real facts of the situation. 
No, he is just an ordinary pensioner. He does not receive that amount. He receives that rate a fortnight. So the real circumstances of this case are that it is one in which there is extreme hardship. The proposed increase of $11.20 which homes will be permitted to charge as a consequence of the announcement made last week will only make the position worse because, in fact, there will be a considerable shortfall between the amount of benefit and pension and the fee which the homes must charge. I calculate this to be something of the order of $8.40. On top of that, if there are additional costs - in this case there are - then, of course, the amount of the shortfall becomes even greater. We find that not only in New South Wales but throughout Australia very worthy citizens who have been under care in these homes are now without any firm undertaking as to their position. They are worried. They are concerned, and rightly so. Their relatives, in those instances where they are unable to assist them to any great extent, are equally worried. Yet we find a Minister who fails completely to face up to the real issues and to answer the challenges which have been thrown out in the last week or  so. This afternoon he answered a Dorothy Dix question which was a completely political attempt to get out from under and again to hoodwink the public on this issue. Then, of course, when a further move was made by the Opposition to del&amp;ate this issue as a matter of urgency, it was denied. So we have the spectacle of a situation where the Government has been prepared to sacrifice one of the most needy sections of the community for purely political ends. It is not prepared to give an answer. It is not taking action and the promises made by the Government last week will not solve the problem. 
I challenge the Minister to come into this House this week and give proper figures and proper facts to show clearly what he is doing in this matter, to show where the promised margin of $4 or $5 will  be  left for pensioners out of their pension and to indicate to the institutions what he will do about their financial problems. Unless this is done, there will be a crisis of proportions that could not really be imagined and the hardship that will follow from it will be extreme indeed. 
Again the Opposition supports the motion in its general concept, but I shall make a few observations. The use of the term: 'A balanced system of committees for the Parliament' is very broad and, I believe, needs to be scrutinised to the point where the committee which is to be appointed will have some limitations imposed upon the extent of its recommendations. I say that for the reason that parliamentary practice shows us very clearly that long ago the situation was established whereby a Committee of the Whole could transact certain procedures. This flows from the creation of the system of regulations and, of course, the procedures which follow or which may follow. Very detailed reference to committees is made in Odgers' 'Australian Senate Practice'. I urge every honourable member to look at the reference in that publication because of its significance to what is now being proposed by the Government. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has shown very great enthusiasm for this proposition. In August last a number of us recognised that there was a need for some clarification of the scope and number of committees and the opportunities given to them. That was on the practical side. But this afternoon I say that this is hard, cold politics. The Leader of the House has made that pretty clear because in his closing remarks he said that he believed that there should be very extensive changes. He referred to changes even involving the procedures of this House. 
I recall that between 1970 and 1972 the Senate moved very extensively into the committee field. I suppose it could be said that it was the Murphy era. The Senate went committee mad, if I can use that term. I think that at the moment there might be some reluctance on the part of the Government to see a continuation of that kind of committee work in the Senate. There may be some slight variation in what was said in August and what is now being put to the House in regard to the intentions of the Government in this matter. In particular I refer to the important question of the delegation of legislation. This idea flows from the creation in the British Parliament of a situation in which committees have very extensive statutory powers. The House could affirm a resolution, could annul it within 40 days or, in another situation, could allow it to go merely by laying it on the table of the House. AH of this requires the creation of a proper system of orders which accord with the best principles of parliamentary procedure. 
I hope that this committee will not be rushed into some propositions of the kind we saw in the Senate when it went committee happy, or of the kind we saw in relation to the procedures of this House when the present Leader of the House, with great enthusiasm 18 months ago, proposed many changes to the pattern of sittings, hours and the service of members of this House. Some of those proposals worked and some of them did not. I think the Leader of the House has settled down to a better situation currently, but I remind him that some of his very ambitious ideas did not succeed. I hope that there will not be an attempt to rush proposals into this House and into the other place which flow from this committee, which will drastically change the procedures and which, in so doing, will bring in their wake the kind of difficulties we observed in the operation of this House last year. Certainly there is need for some improvement but that must be balanced against cost, the time required of honourable members and the results achieved. The committee must have at its disposal full information, particularly in relation to staffing, cost and the time occupied by committees in the work that they performed in the last 18 months because there has been a proliferation of committees of a nature which has created some useful results, but in some other respects perhaps a degree of repetition. What is the ultimate intention of this proposal? Is it intended that there be some move away from the time spent in this chamber and the creation of a situation in which committees will take up some of that time? If longer time is to be allowed for attention to legislation or to its preparation this, of course, is commendable provided it can be done within the confines of a reasonable situation for members of Parliament. 
Let us remember that the number in this House is a fixed number. It cannot be enlarged because of the decision made by the people unless we have a tremendous enlargement of the other place. We know that that is the objection to the enlargement of the number of honourable members in this chamber. So we have to face the circumstance in which the same number of honourable members have to cope with the increasing volume of work. In the individual electorate this is a pretty serious matter because, as members, we must regard our electorates and this House as the two principal ingredients of our time and responsibility. I say to the Leader of the House, who so enthusiastically said that there had been difficulties and that wc need to do things to overcome them, that we should also give some thought to the important need to provide better facilities to enable honourable members to do their job if they are to serve on committees and if more time is required of them beyond those two fundamentals - this chamber and their electorates. If this is something which can be considered by this committee, then we will get somewhere. So I urge the Leader of the House to think on this matter so that perhaps he might inform this committee, in the course of its inquiry, of the possible scope of assistance to individual members both inside and outside Parliament House. This all comes back to the question of what each individual can do to contribute to the work of Parliament and how he can best do it. I think that these 2 matters are inseparable if we are to get a proper result from the proposed committee. 
I say as well that there has to be some general committee framework. The proliferation which has occurred in the committee system has brought into the concept of the conduct of the business of the House the useage of committees when political circumstances have occasioned the Government - I am not talking only of this Government because this applied to the previous Government - to appoint a committee on that particular matter or on some other matter. So, there must be some general committee framework. 
As well as the traditional committees that have operated for many years, such as the House Committee and those that might be regarded as being the domestic committees of the respective chambers, joint committees - the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, the Joint Committee on Public Works and so on - have been operating for many years. I think that the experience of even the Joint Committee on Public Works - a proposal is cur rently before this chamber for some changes to be made in relation to its functions - points very clearly to the aspect I have mentioned, namely, the need to ensure that those who serve on committees are able to do so effectively and efficiently whilst at the same time attending to their parliamentary duties. 
If such a framework is to be put into perspective there must, of necessity, be some limitation on the total number of committees. I hope that the proposed inquiry will take that very much into account. If there is to be a tapering off of the time spent in certain directions in this chamber and if that time is to be devoted to committee work, I hope that there will be a proper relationship between the 2 functions. But, whatever happens, we must ensure that the opportunity to do the kind of work that select committees are empowered to do is not lost. I refer to a statement made in a debate in 1970 by the Right Honourable William Whitelaw, the then Lord President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons. He said: 
A sound select committee system is vital to the detailed probing and criticism of the Executive- 
In other words, the Government-  upon which both successful parliamentary democracy and good government depend. 
What is meant by that and what I want to emphasise is that we must not take away the right of the Parliament to probe, to investigate, to call for information and to send for witnesses and the like through a properly constituted committee. We must not allow the Executive or the Government to use the system to intrude upon that right of Parliament, which goes back a very long way. If one has regard to the origin of committees one will find that they had their origin in the very early beginnings of parliamentary practice. It would be a great shame if any action taken by the proposed committee were in any way to break down that tradition. After all, it is fundamental to our 'system of government - the Westminster system - for Parliament to have the right to question and to scrutinise, and if that right were taken away in any way it would give undue opportunities to the Executive or the Government to take action which might not be in the best interests of the people of the country. We do not want to see that happen, but we know that no matter who occupies the treasury bench there will always be that ambition. I hope that none of the political parties in this Parliament - none of the 3 political parties in this chamber anyhow - will in its enthusiasm to get a workable system take any action through the proposed committee that will turn us away from that fundamental because to do so would be to lose the very essence of the system which we regard as being the best system for this Parliament and which has been built up over so many years and is based on precedents which have proved to be right. 
I was interested to hear the Leader of the House refer to the American system of government. I think that many of us have become very conscious of the worry of the people of the United States of America in the last year or so about the deficiencies of their system. So let us not move too much in that direction without having a very close look at those deficiencies. I will not say anything that reflects upon the Constitution of the United States of America or upon the way in which its parliamentary system has been built up, but I will make the observation that lessons can be learned from any system, whether it is the Westminster system, the American system or any other system. That must surely be a duty of the proposed committee. The proposed committee will have a task to perform that cannot be performed in a short period of time. It must be given, an adequate period of time in which to perform its task. 1 hope that the Leader of the House will plan to ensure that that is the way in which the task is undertaken. I support the proposition. I hope that every member of the House will take an interest in it because it concerns every member of this House and of the other place. 
Our postal and telephone services are in a parlous state - a situation created by the Government due directly to mismanagement - and the public will pay heavily as a consequence. Yet the Government now budgets for a Post Office profit of $60m, which is incredible, to say the least, in the light of all that has occurred in the last 18 months. It is beyond belief that in this short period the major public facility run by the Federal Government could become such a disaster for all concerned with it, particularly the public. Now the community is to be loaded with savage increases in postal and telephone rates while at the same time receiving less services. The Post Office is now being jeopardised by the backlash of deals between the trade unions and the Government. Of course, when we look at these very carefully we find that the rank and file union member will in the long run be worse off. The management of the Post Office by this Government is, to say the least, a disaster. 
The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  representing the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop),  told the House when he introduced this legislation that the Premiers Conference in Canberra on 7 June had been informed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that there would be substantial increases in postal and telecommunications charges. These, he said, are required to ensure that the rates which customers pay for Post Office services are sufficient to cover costs and also provide a surplus which can be reinvested to help meet the growing demand for service. What hollow words! At that conference in Canberra when this was first mooted by the Prime Minister the Prime Minister took the State Premiers to task for what he alleged was bad management of State public services, in particular their railway services. What hypocrisy. The Prime Minister has the temerity to criticise the State Governments for bad management yet he starved the States of finance needed to do the job of making these public services effective. 
The basis of the proposed increases in postal and service charges now put to Parliament is that it is intended to write off accumulated postal losses as at 30 June this year and finance a significant proportion of postal and telecommunication expansion from revenue. And this is supposed to be an antiinflationary measure! Then the gem in the story, as it unfolds, is that it has been decided as a de-inflationary measure to restrict Post Office borrowings in 1974-75 to the same amount as last year, $385m. With the proposed charges and the likely increases in wages, according to the Minister's statement in this House, a profit of $60m is forecast. This is comparable to what was achieved by the previous Government in 1971-72, which of course was followed by a profit of $41m in 1972-73. This was done under very different conditions to those which apply today and to which the Minister has referred and laboured so much in what he told this House. It is obvious that the Government is playing with words, is engaging in deception on a grand scale, and is ignoring the real facts. 
The biggest single business in Australia, the Post Office, run by the Federal Government sets no example to the States, to the private sector or to the community at large. On the contrary, it has announced a large cut in funds for capital works. However, it proposes to raise the same amount from borrowings as it did last year and to increase the charges enormously by a sum amounting to no less than $140m. This will result in a surplus of $60m. Just what can one regard this as other than a complete hotch potch? It poses the question: Just where are we going in all this confusion, double talk and political jigger) pokery? 
Fundamental to this whole mess is the decision, delayed obviously by the Government, to implement the royal commission recommendations. We recall the Prime Minister's grand announcement of December 1972 that a royal commission would be appointed to inquire into the operations of the Australian Post Office. Then in August last year there was a revision of charges with savage increases announced in the Budget which preceded the royal commission concluding its investigation. Now we have these drastic, far reaching changes that have been implemented in a sudden mini-Budget measure. What about the proposals of the royal commission? Why did this Government fail to make a statement to the House and have it debated as is customary after a royal commission has inquired into any matter and presents a report and recommendation to a government? 
There has been no follow through as has been the standard practice in this Parliament over so many years. One can only assume that this procedure has been adopted for the purpose of subterfuge and, of course, to hide something. In other words, it is to get away from the so-called open government very quickly. The first major decision of the First Whitlam Ministry was to establish a royal commission to inquire into the Post Office. What do we find flowing from it? There has not even been a statement on the royal commission to this House for open debate. How long can the Prime Minister keep up this kind of double talk? It is patently clear that it is done deliberately because last week the Prime Minister answered a question in this House which asked whether the Government intended to introduce increases in postal and telephone charges. The Prime Minister said that the Government had not considered the matter. That was on Wednesday of last week. 
On Tuesday night last the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, following a statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  announced drastic changes to these charges. Does anyone believe that these decisions were made between Wednesday and Tuesday? Of course they were not. To add to the obvious evidence of this deliberate attempt to mislead this House, the public at large and everyone involved, let us look at the real story. There was an announcement to the Premiers Conference on 7 June, a denial last week, and then the action was taken this week. How can we have any confidence in the Government in this matter of its handling of the Post Office, its consideration of the recommendations of the royal commission and the future planning of the Post Office as a consequence of those recommendations? There can be no confidence whatever. 
For that reason I believe that honourable members must strongly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  - that this House is of the opinion that the Bill should not proceed until the Government presents its total program to deal with inflation and to enable the full inflationary effect of the proposals contained in the Bill to be determined. That is a proper action, because of the circumstances in which we find this matter being dealt with in this House at the hands of this Government. As a consequence of this measure, if it goes through here and the other place, services will be slashed in a bitter, deliberate vendetta against certain sections of the public. The withdrawal of services over the past 18 months has been most drastic indeed. Now it is to be carried further regardless of any consideration of service to the community, which has been the traditional principle of the management, operation and structure of the Post Office as a public instrumentality over so many years. 
Huge increases are to be made in postal charges to raise about $140m. As a consequence, service to the public is being cast aside as really not worth considering. One can have no other view of this measure. It is all very well for an honourable member this afternoon to refer to a new standard letter and to say that this will now enable a reduction from a previous rate of 15c for certain letters. Of course, he fails to recognise that this change is only to correct a blunder made in August last when that 15c level was introduced. There has been such reaction against it and undoubtedly so many letters have been flowing through the post office with insufficient postage on them that it has been proved to be a disaster, and this proposal is to remedy that situation. But what the honourable member does not admit is that the overall increase to 9c catches everybody else who posts an ordinary letter. So it is just begging the whole argument to say that there is some saving to the public in this matter. 
In the field of telephone and telegraph charges, the variations proposed will raise no less than SI 09m. This is to be done by increasing basic rentals in the field of the private telephone, the business telephone and so on. This is an imposition that cuts right across the whole principle of doing anything to moderate inflation. I refer in particular to the category of postage to which the Minister referred in very strong terms when he spoke in this House on Tuesday evening. He said that it is unfortunate that some of the Government's efforts to phase out concessions were obstructed, particularly with regard to newspapers and periodicals coming into the categories that receive special concessions and that this had cost $9m in 1973-74. He did not go on to say that there will be any drastic change to these rates because he well knows that by March or April next year certain of these concessions will be phased out anyhow. 
I think the real truth of the matter was raised by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  when he quoted the real feelings of the producers of trade union journals and others who voiced their strong protest in this matter. So it has been quite unfair for the Special Minister of State and for members of the Government Party during the past year or so to criticise the Australian Country Party in the way they have. They have asserted that the Country Party gave concessions on a section basis, but they found out that this was a little untrue and that people in their own sphere of political thinking were being harmed also and they backed off fairly rapidly. We find that in the detailing of the postal rates in this Bill there is a big departure from the approach made in August last. It is at least some solace to some of us to find that the Minister has withdrawn from the kind of attitude he expressed in this direction last year. 
Of course, the crucial issue is where are we going and who is doing the task that should be done in considering an effective plan. Certainly, we have not had any plan put before the House on this occasion. There has been no announcement by the Government of any positive proposition. I deplore that because I believe it is the responsibility of the Government - the responsibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself - to give a clear indication of intentions. Instead, the report of the Vernon Royal Commission was virtually put under wraps and kept under wraps until a couple of days ago. Obviously, there is an intention not to bring a proposition into this House at the time when one would expect that to be done. No practical proposals for the development of an effective service have been introduced, rather we see a curtailment of service. This is not good enough. Nothing has been done to restore public confidence or to provide a basis for a better relationship between the Government and the unions. Certainly, nothing has been done to lift the morale of the Post Office. 
From the point of view of productivity, the disaster continues unabated and if we think in terms of what is around the corner in this direction there is no doubt that services will not match the increased charges that will be imposed upon the public. This is a disaster for everyone concerned with the biggest business operation in the hands of this Federal Government. It is a disaster that must be laid at the feet of the Prime Minister, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is the former Postmaster-General and the present Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop).  It is up to them to give the answers. I hope we will see some remedy for the present situation brought forth within a reasonable time. 
The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill and the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill now before the House are indicative of a situation which we are finding to be rather common. This Government is rushing in legislation with very little preparation and certainly a complete absence of an overall plan or a fundamental approach to the problem with which it is purporting to grapple. We are well aware now of the problems of urban transport and have been for a long time. We are well aware of them because the State governments, which previously carried urban transport problems within the jurisdiction and handled them very well, have made it very clear to this Government and to preceding Commonwealth governments that the one great need has been additional finance for them to do their job properly. 
In these measures a sum is being allocated for a very limited and specific job in a narrow field without any overall proposition. This to me seems to be a very dangerous precedent. I believe that it creates the circumstances in which this Government can intrude upon the administration of the State governments and without any plan that is overall in concept it can create real havoc for the future of urban transport and, for that matter, the future of rail transport in the States. In the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  he said that he wanted to stress that urban public transport had suffered and that there was no unexpected overnight demise because of its present problems. He went on to say that the situation has been seen to exist for 50 years but in the very next sentence he said that in over 23 years m office the Liberal-Country Party Government had failed to do anything about it. What about the earlier 25 or so years of other governments, and 13 or more years of the preceding Labor Government? What did it do in this field? Of course, it is just a hypocritical comment by the Minister to say that there has been neglect in this field. The truth is that the Labor Party had no policy in this area until 1972. There is nc record of any earlier policy by Labor in the field of urban transport. 
I challenge the honourable member for Macarthur to state in this House any earlier policy on urban transport enunciated by the Labor Party. I ask him to show where anything of the kind presented in this House tonight ha?, been produced earlier. Certainly he cannot do it. State governments have been starved of financial allocation and this has really led to the dilemma of the railways systems. It is all very well to make a token start - that is the only way in which it can properly be described - with a limited section of the urban transport system. In New South Wales in particular the total railway system is an important consideration. Currently its services have been greatly curtailed. In my own area on the north coast of New South Wales in the last few weeks there has been a tragic curtailment of services simply because the State Government does not have the funds to do the job and because the unions in collusion with the Minister for Transport, who is now at the table, have another plan. I think it is time that the public was made aware of that fact. 
This is to deal with some unions and nol all the unions. I wish he would come to the north coast and tell the unions there. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the honourable member for Cowper to resume his seat. I ask the Minister to withdraw that remark. 
I acknowledge the Minister's withdrawal. The unions - anyhow, those on the north coast of New South Wales - would be delighted to co-operate with an overall plan that woud assist the total railway system but they certainly cannot sec it in what is being put forward in this legislation. They are very concerned about it. I believe that the public are equally concerned about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the Minister to remain silent. 
I did not hear the Minister's interjection. 
I see. The Minister is going back to the old cry that the LiberalCountry Party has not done this or has not done that. If we look at what has occurred in the last 18 months we will find that the Labor Party is not doing anything of an effective nature about this problem. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  was very critical of the present standard of rail services in Victoria. Undoubtedly the same situation applies there. An amount of $71. 91m for a specific project to be carried out in the Sydney metropolitan area will not make any useful contribution to solving the overall problems of the total rail system in New South Wales. What ought to be happening in respect of urban transport is that there should be some reality on the part of this Government in its efforts to assist State governments. If we look at what has happened overseas we will find that great cities such as Montreal have been afforded first-class rail systems because the city, state and federal authorities have worked together with an effective plan. In New South Wales because of lack of finance the major extension of the Eastern Suburbs Railway is unfortunately to be concluded. It will end up with a standard far below that which ought to have been accomplished in such an extensive project, the reason being a lack of adequate finance. Finance ought to be provided by Canberra; It ought to be provided by this Government if it wants to help in a proper manner. 
I believe that there are so many loopholes in this legislation that it will lead to a real breakdown of the total rail system in Australia. In addition to that, we find in regard to other legislation before the House, namely the Roads Grants Bill, that the Minister for Transport in his second reading speech said that there are limitations in the matter of finance because of financial constraints. The money is not there. But under this legislation the money is to be put into a specific proposition. I believe that the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  hit the nail right on the head when he said earlier tonight that there was a lack of a comprehensive plan for an effective proposal and that there are far too many gaps in what is being put in this legislation. 
The Minister said that we did not have any gaps in ours. What we did was try to give the States adequate assistance. What this Government is doing is leaving the States with a debt and allowing the railways business to fall off to such an extent that it will never be regained. The whole thing will be a complete disaster. If there is to be a form of take-over, it ought to be a proposition that encompasses the whole gambit of rail services including their financial structure and the debt aspect in particular. It ought to be done on a business like basis. But the proposition contained in this legislation offers nothing of that sort. I believe that the Minister who represents that very important industrial area of Newcastle will eventually regret this because the future development of that part of NSW is, of course, very much tied up with an effective transport system - an effective rail system to the west and to the north. The only way this can be developed is to have a viable total rail system for the whole State. This proposition aims in no way to provide for that situation. It should. If this Government fails to follow through with something of this kind, this whole proposition obviously falls to the ground. 
The real problem of urban transport cannot be solved overnight. Anyone who is realistic in his assessment of what has happened in the great cities of other countries must recognise this. I believe it is proper that there should be research. I do not quibble with what is being done in that direction but let the research be total. Let it take into consideration the whole of the transport problem. Let us not have a repetition of rushing in and doing something and then finding that it does not fit a total concept which needs to be worked out. I compliment thehonourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  for his reference to the State report which appears from the legislation now before the House to have been ignored. If we are to have a situation in which there is a lack of proper coordination between the Federal and State governments in this matter then it must lead to real chaos in the long run, and expensive chaos at that. 
I am disappointed that the Bill is presented in its present form. I am disappointed that the proposals put forward are not more comprehensive. I just hope that what we see today occurring throughout NSW anyhow - I know it does apply to some extent in some other States - is not an indication of what this Government is going to allow to happen, that is, a falling-off in rail services resulting in the eventual collapse of these services so that they are unable henceforth to serve the purpose for which they were intended and for which they should be given the viability to be able to provide because without that there is a tragic effect on commerce generally, on all types of industry particularly primary industries and on those people who live outside metropolitan areas. You cannot save a total system by patching up one small section of it as is proposed under this legislation. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put 
The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. However, it believes the Government's attention must be drawn to the parlous situation of the dairying industry which is being aggravated by this Government's policies, and that is well known by many honourable members on the other side of the House. The past 21 months have seen the implementation of policies which necessitate the urgent passage of this legislation in order to bring some assistance to marginal dairy farmers who are being crushed in particular by the Government's economic and rural policies. In the past 3 years no fewer than 10,000 dairy farmers have left the dairying industry. The majority of these dairy farmers have been forced to leave the industry because of this Government's policies. If we examine the numbers, we find that in the space of 21 months the exodus has been tremendous. 
Reduced export returns because of currency revaluation and the withdrawal of sup port measures - in other words, the subsidy - have accelerated the migration of dairy farmers from the dairying industry. I recall just over 21 months ago a very large meeting which was held at Ipswich in the southern Queensland dairying area. The former member for Wide Bay on behalf of the then Opposition, with a telegram from the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  said: Elect us to Government. Return us at the next election and we will guarantee 42c a lb and all your problems in the dairying industry are over'. Eighteen months later, he was the exmember for Wide Bay. I think that is some indication of what the Government has done to the dairying industry in its short sojourn. The migration of dairy farmers is having an adverse effect on the fabric of the nation because the dairying industry is an industry that is widespread and affects many communities. It is lowering our potential to capitalise on market opportunities that arise. This has resulted in formerly productive lands being turned into non-productive lands and creating a problem of unemployment not only for the farmers who leave the industry but also for the towns that were previously dependent on the dairying industry for the livelihood of the small commercial centres that are spread throughout Australia. This Government has directly caused towns which were formerly prosperous to become what might be properly described as 'Hoovervilles'. If we think of what happened when there was this kind of control on farming in the United States of America some years ago, we can see the real dangers that arise from the actions that this Government has been taking. 
The profitable dairying farm of yesterday is now the marginal dairy farm of today as a result of the policies of this Government. I stress that the Opposition is not opposed to reconstruction and to the production adjustment in marginal dairy farm areas because this is now essential, inescapable and vital. We are opposed, however, to the artificial creation by this Government of a situation in which we find that it has deliberately failed to stimulate the requirements of the dairy industry in the correct way and at the correct time. The industry, mainly because export returns are its principal ingredient, has for some years experienced income problems. I can well recall the efforts of the previous government to overcome the difficulty and the work done in Geneva to get a floor price for processed milk products. Those efforts resulted in a better situation for the dairy industry at this time. The opportunity was there. It was created by our actions. Yet in 21 months this Government has sacrificed the opportunities that were in fact created. 
I recall the original marginal dairy farms legislation which was introduced in this House. The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  then led for the Opposition and made a most interesting comment. He stated:  1 mentioned in passing that one of the great problems is the cost-price squeeze. There can be no doubt that, whether we are speaking of the dairy industry, the wool industry, the beef industry, the sugar industry or whatever industry it might be, this insidious increase in costs is the major problem for export primary industries and it is this which is really having an effect and eating away the very heart of them. 
I recall those words to the Minister. He has now had 21 months to do something about this problem. What do we find? The costprice squeeze is worse than ever, and the effects of inflation and all that goes with it are worse than ever. The Minister for Northern Development nods his head. He has to acknowledge that these are the facts. But I remind him very clearly that, on this side of the House, 21 months ago, he had a very different point of view. 
Recent surveys indicate that 25 per cent of Australia's dairy farmers have a net income of less than $4000 a year. This figure, when viewed against today's accelerating consumer price index and rising wages is in itself tragic. If we look at other figures, we find that the cost ingredient of food has fallen dramatically in the last few years. In the figures for the last 21 months or so that trend spells out very clearly that it is not the cost of food that is forcing up prices as we are experiencing them today. This is not the major contributing factor. Yet this Government believes that the farmer has never had it so good and that he should be kept screwed down. We see headlines which say that dairy farmers will get an increase. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  mentioned this to me earlier. Another headline states that dairy farmers are to get more. But what do we need? A very slight increase is to be allowed in the price of butter - not the amount that was applied for - and when it flows through to the dairy farmer he will get practically nothing; in fact, it might be a fraction of a cent. This is the kind of policy that this Government believes in. It is a policy which spells disaster for the man on the land. 
The extension and the widening of the marginal dairy farms agreement with the States which is proposed by this legislation will give many of the farmers in the small, limited income bracket to which I referred earlier an opportunity to leave their farms with a measure of finance to start a new life, and allow farmers who remain on their farms the opportunity to build up their properties to a more profitable standard which will give them an adequate return on the level of capital investment to which they are really entitled. But, of course, it is too little and it too late if we think in terms of the fact that it is to be retrospective in some respects to 23 July 1973. The real propositions provided by the previous government were to operate in 1972. It was in that time span that there was such an incredible run-down in the number of dairy farms. 
I believe that it would be wrong if I did not draw attention to some of the problems implicit in the Bill. The Bill talks about an economic unit but seeks not to define what an economic unit is. The diverse nature of the dairy industry is reflected in the fact that an economic unit at Grafton, Kempsey or Lismore may not be the same as an economic unit at, say, Rochester or an economic unit somewhere in Queensland. I make the point also that in the development of any definition of an economic unit it is necessary to take into account the alternative land use valuation for the unit which is seeking assistance. The Government has asked the Industries Assistance Commission to report on assistance to the dairy industry after 30 June 1976. The results of that report could throw into sharp contrast the objectives of this Bill as spelt out by the Minister. I believe that in the programming ahead for the operation of this marginal dairy farms agreement consideration has to be given to what could be contained in that IAC report in case there is a need for a sudden acceleration in assistance to the dairy industry under this scheme, particularly if the IAC recommends a downgrading in the level of assistance to the industry. Whichever way it goes, there needs to be some heed taken of the position now and not sudden action taken at that time. 
In my earlier remarks, I referred to the valuation of land. The Bill provides that the price of land and any improvements is based on market valuations current at the time of disposal. This phrase could, I suggest, provoke problems in the administration of the scheme for the simple- reason that there is a tendency within the industry for marginal dairy farms to be located in similar areas. In other words, if there is a problem in a locality it is the total situation in that locality. These concentrated locations of marginal dairy farms have a downgrade drag effect on land values although the value of land nearby involved in other forms of production and similar in nature to the marginal dairy land may be selling at a higher rate. I would suggest that consideration and an answer need to be given to the argument that perhaps it would be better when the State authority purchases the land for it to purchase the land at a price which bears some relation to its alternative land usage and not to its present usage. 
The changed economic climate that we find in the countryside today points even further to this requirement. What I propose provides problems for the final purchaser - the farmer who is taking over the marginal farm - but it seems unjust that a marginal farmer leaving the industry should leave it with a possibly depressed price for his farm. This could well apply under this scheme from now on in view of the very different circumstances from what we have experienced with respect to land values in the last decade. The problem could be overcome by the Government's introducing a differential interest structure which takes into account the higher price of the land to the final purchaser under this system of valuation. These matters should be dealt with by the States and the Commonwealth in some kind of effective discussions in relation to the differentials which arise in various areas of the Commonwealth. 
I believe that the Bill is welcome also inasmuch as it makes allowance for the provision of interest-free loans for the purpose of buying and installing refrigerated vats for the storage of whole milk intended either for use in manufacturing or for human consumption. It also makes allowance for the provision of finance to allow for the efficient collection of vatted milk. The widening acceptance of collection in this manner will be welcomed by all sections of the dairying industry, because it is the only way in which we can have a viable and economic industry henceforth. It was originally advocated by the Liberal and Country Parties in the 1972 election that there be specific assistance in this direction. 1 said earlier that we were pleased to see the Government now acting, but it has acted just this much too late. However I should point out that in the past year the cost of conversion to vat collection, according to industry sources, has risen very sharply. The cost for an average farm has risen in the past few years from S5.000 to 57,000, and even $10,000 in some instances, if a proper job is to be made of the installation of refrigerated vats, a road of access, and all the other necessary equipment to comply with the standards insisted upon by dairying industry authorities in all States that administer Acts in relation to standards in the industry. The increase in the cost of conversion over the past year is just part of the inflation in the economy and points up in sharp contrast what the Minister said on a previous occasion and what he now says. He said that something should be done about it, but he has failed dismally as a member of the Cabinet and as a representative of primary industry. 
With relation to the provision of loans, there is a problem in the justification of the argument used by the Minister if the farmer to be assisted under the scheme has been unable to obtain reasonable terms from normal financial sources. The argument I have in this matter is that whatever section of the rural economy is involved it ought not to be on the basis of a star chamber decision on whether or not the person concerned is in necessitous circumstances. I think that the wording of the Bill will create a very severe difficulty in the administration of this scheme. Of course, it is all the worse now because of the Government's credit squeeze and the policies which have created the difficulties of liquidity. It will be very difficult for farmers seeking assistance to find other assistance. In other words, the limitations under this scheme and the provision for certain specific purposes spell out very clearly the fact that farmers need funds for other purposes as well. I remind the Minister of what he said during the debate on the earlier Bill in 1970, when he particularly criticised the fact that there was not easier access to finance for farmers and that long term loans were not available at lower rates of interest. I just ask: What is the position today? It is worse than it was then, and certainly nothing in this legislation suggests that there is a move to assist generally the farming community in this important regard. 
The extension of eligibility to marginal dairy farmers in the milk market sector of the dairying industry is also welcome, because I believe it is timely and necessary. As I said before, the profitable dairy farm of yesterday is the marginal dairy farm of today because of this Government's policies. When this legislation was first introduced, there was no problem involved with relation to market milk producers. However, rising production costs and withdrawal of Government support for the industry is creating a major problem within the market milk sector of the economy, which has expressed itself as in need of assistance such as is now proposed in this Bill. For farmers seeking to build up their farms under this scheme the prospect of moving into other forms of production has been stifled by the fall in the export beef market and by other downturns in primary industry. The downturn in the outlook for beef has choked off the major alternative land use pattern for marginal dairy farmers and will, I believe, place added burdens on the implementation of this program. No matter where one goes in Australia that is the truth of the matter. If someone was to leave the dairying industry, what would he go into? Hitherto he would have gone into beef, but now the beef industry has altered so drastically that the whole spectrum has been altered. 
The abolition of quotas in some States, the alteration of the structure of the dairying industry and the creation of milk quotas in other instances are all matters coming within State jurisdiction; but they are important considerations and must be taken into account in the administration of this important scheme. Also the position of the dairy farmer is not being aided by this Government because of its pell-mell policy of abolishing margarine quotas. The Labor policy on margarine quotas, it seems to me, is a result of the Government's desire to pay off one of its multinational backers in the last election. The Government is ignoring the fact that it happens to be one of the world's major margarine manufacturers and certainly is one of the multinational companies that so often come under criticism. But it is being assisted by this Government hand over fist as though it were the one cherished section of the community that deserves some special consideration. 
The abolition of quotas will mean a possible further downturn of domestic sales of butter which could lead to a greater loss of employment opportunities on dairy farms and in the dairying industry. I refer not simply to the farmers but to those who service them and to those in the small towns and villages who depend upon them. I think the Government needs to recognise this, particularly when it piously talks about keeping unemployment to a minimum without doing anything about the problems of high unemployment in rural areas and the threat of even higher unemployment in areas where the dairying industry is of importance - problems caused by the inroads of margarine sales directly stimulated by this Government's recent actions. 
We have seen many assault campaigns against the dairying industry by this Government. The abolition of free milk for school children last year is but one example of these campaigns. The withdrawal of the subsidy for free milk, in spite of evidence that the milk fulfils useful nutritional needs for school children throughout Australia, has placed many farmers in a difficult position. As a result of this and other policies, the profitability of the dairying industry is at risk. In every sector of production the pressures on reconstruction and production adjustment as provided in the original Bill and this Bill will be intense. There will be need for human compassion. Since this Government was elected we have seen, as I said earlier, compassion expressed in the dairying industry in another way, that is, in the loss of 10,000 dairy farmers. I believe that it behoves the Government to treat the position of the dairying industry with a little hit of practical reason. No nation such as Australia can allow departures from the industry to continue at a faster rate in the near future. No nation can stand idly by and see people go into unemployment because of government neglect, whether they be dairy farmers or people indirectly dependent upon the dairying industry. This Bill helps to overcome some of the problems, but I warn the Government that unless it is more sympathetic to the industry the problems could worsen. 
The Opposition supports the Bill, but we point out to the Minister that the pressures of the Bill, because of the Government's neglect of the industry, could be much greater than the Government has anticipated. This is in itself a tragedy which reflects very poorly on the Government's appreciation of the contribution of the Australian dairying industry to the Australian way of life. I support the Bill. but I hope that there will be recognition of the very many points which arise in it, many of which cannot be covered in the limited time in this debate. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whan)  adjourned. 
-I address my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the previous questions concerning the serious crisis facing the countryside due to the shortage of fuel, particularly in New South Wales and Queensland. Why did the Prime Minister refer only to Queensland in his previous answer and can he now tell the House what action is being taken by the Government to restore supplies to north and north-west New South Wales where many areas have a complete absence cf essential fuel, both petrol and distillate? What steps will be taken to maintain an adequate supply in the future? Can the Prime Minister give the reasons why there is inadequate fuel in the important industrial sections as well as the country areas of New South Wales? 
-This Bill seeks to abolish the broadcast listener's and television viewer's licence system. The licence fees have become relatively expensive to collect. In fact in 1 973-74 it cost $3.4m to collect the fees throughout Australia. According to calculations another $llm was not collected despite the activities of some 2,400 inspectors policing the licensing system. Another feature of the history of this matter is that last year 23,000 people were prosecuted for not possessing a broadcast listener's or a television viewer's licence. 
The Opposition believes that the move to abolish the licences will be welcomed by the community. The Opposition also believes that at this stage of sophistication of administration the costs of administration, the costs of collecting revenue and the costs of policing the system run into a situation of imbalance. I believe, and I am sure that many other honourable members believe, that the Government must realise that it should not restrict this kind of thinking to only this area. It is very strange that the Government has expressed a firm view in very strong words that a business undertaking should be financed by receipts and be related to the expenditure required for its operation. It has indicated its principle in relation to post and telegraph charges. It has indicated it in relation to many other charges. Yet we have the curious situation where it selects this area for a different approach and in fact states that it cannot be treated as an operation that can be qualified as a business operation. Had the revenue situation continued the collections for the remainder of this year would have been about $50m or, in a full year, $67m- a very considerable sum of money. 
Let us think of the considerations that must arise in this matter. We are on the eve of the advent of colour television in Australia. There will, of course, be a great disparity in the matter of those who are privileged to have the opportunity of seeing colour television and those who will not. Yet had the fee continued everyone would have been paying the same licence charge. On that ground alone there was a need for some consideration of the matter. Undoubtedly, if the revenue aspect had been continued, the Government would have been increasing the licence fee. So, taking all this into account, at least some of the anomalies are being overcome by the one action of removing the licence fee. The anomalies, of course, are those in which we find an increasing number of listeners and viewers who are not privileged to get a satisfactory reception of one kind or another, where there is an increase in the expenditure, so far as the cities are concerned, and a loss of those standards in the more distant parts of Australia. 
So, the action of the Government is to be commended in this respect because it creates a situation of equality in the matter of the required enforcement of a charge. Perhaps it does not produce complete equality in terms of expenditure when it is related to who pays in this instance. Of course, it will now be the taxpayer. The situation is interesting when one looks at the day to day needs of the running of a great national service which provides our national radio and television media in this country. The costs must be escalating at an enormous rate. Yet under the privileges that have been followed for a considerable time a statutory body of the sort that is involved here is not required to reveal the full details of its budgeting and the full details of its expenditure in terms of a breakup that gives a picture of what is being spent in what area. 
We recall the great issue that arose some two or three years ago when the previous Government sought to have a closer look at what the budgeting and the expenditure might be. Before it could even get this off the ground there were protests in all directions, led by those who now sit on the Treasury benches. I am one who has always been in full support of those who want to get the best standard and give leadership in the provision of a national service. I think it is essential that they be given support to perform their task in the national interest. But it is a strange contrast indeed, in what we now are told is open government, when we still do net have a situation where the full details are made known to Parliament and made known to the public in the community at large. 
I just want to express this comment. I hope that the removal of the licence fee will not be an open order in certain directions for the provision of a national service or for expenditure to escalate without regard to what it means in terms of the drain on the taxpayer. After all, to some extent a limitation was imposed in the past through the revenue limitation in terms of collections from Licence fees. This was supplemented to some extent from other sources such as tax revenue. Now we have the situation where there is no restraint of that kind. This Bill contains nothing which indicates that there will be some kind of control mechanism. I hope that what I am about to say will not be regarded as a statement that criticises in any way the action being taken to remove the licence charge; on the other hand, I hope that it will be regarded as a responsible comment on the administration of what is one of the most vital services provided to the public. I am bound to point out that there is as a consequence of this action an even greater disparity in what is paid for by taxpayers or through the revenue coming to the Government for public service provisions- in other words, services to the community and what is regarded as a business undertaking and which therefore necessitates revenue to cover its expenditure. So, I mention again telephone services. In very many Australian homes the number one requirement is a telephone. Radio and television services rank second to that requirement. This is because there are people who are dependent on that kind of link between their home and the outside world. These people live in a situation where the telephone is their one means of defence and security - 
-This legislation follows earlier legislation concerning the transfer of powers to Papua-New Guinea. I well recall a debate in which from both sides of the House there were expressions of concern that correct action would be taken and that there would not be a movement towards an extension of the transfer of powers ahead of the capacity of the legislature of Papua-New Guinea to accept proper responsibility. I think that up to this point of time there has been no evidence of stresses or strains in any direction. But this measure has one rather intriguing feature about it, that is the absence of any precise reference to Queenslandthe absence of any indication of the concurrence of Queensland. Of course, the State of Queensland has sovereign rights which must be observed and acknowledged by this Parliament. Yet in the second reading speech of the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  there is no mention whatever of this important consideration. Therefore, I support very strongly what has been said by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  which was so ably presented and which poses for the Government the responsibility of ensuring that this House is properly advised in this matter. 
The honourable member for Kooyong is well equipped to present the case he has presented. As a former Minister for External Territories and now shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs in this Parliament he is not only experienced but is perhaps also the most capable member of the House in matters of this kind. I submit that as members we are entitled to something which is a little more precise than what has been presented. The Minister has acknowledged this and I hope that indicates that he intends to give some further explanation. That being the case, I do not propose to take undue time or to pursue the same course as the previous  speaker.  Suffice it to say that an issue of this kind if cleared up now can avoid, in the long term, very difficult consequencesconsequences of a kind which neither this Parliament nor this nation would want to see arise in the relationship between either the Australian nation or the State of Queensland and the newly developing country of Papua-New Guinea. 
Every possible precaution must be taken to ensure that there is no misunderstanding or confusion and that we do not fall into the trap of passing over to some international jurisdiction the responsibility of clearing up something that ought to be cleared up here in Australia. It ought to be cleared up by this Parliament which has the prime responsibility in the matter. I hope that there will be no blemish in this legislation. We are all well aware of the controversy surrounding the off-shore jurisdiction- the controversy which has gone on for such a long time in the matter of the territorial seas and submerged lands. We do not want to see major constitutional issue develop concerning our relationship with Papua New Guinea in this matter. So whilst I support the principle and the objective of a smooth passage of the handing over of powers to Papua New 
Guinea I emphasise the importance of this necessary precaution. Accordingly, I support the Bill but with that proviso and in the hope that a proper explanation will be given by the Minister and if there is any impediment at all that the matter will be returned for consideration by this House and any necessary adjustments made. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister and refer to the critical fuel shortage on the north coast of New South Wales where service stations at Coffs Harbour, Grafton and many other centres are dry, causing chaos for all sections fo the community in that area. In view of the answer given earlier today by the Minister for Minerals and Energy, I now ask the Prime Minister: In view of the fact that the Royal Commission detailed no action to overcome fuel shortages quickly through rationalisation of deliveries, will he immediately take action to set up an emergency committee involving the oil companies, distributors and sellers in order to speed deliveries and so protect the livelihood of many Australians affected by this crisis in the areas where fuel supplies are now exhausted? 
-The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) seeks to amend the amount of tax payable by individuals and companies for the current year. We find in this measure the true intention of the Labor Government to manipulate and to play the taxpayer like a puppet of the dogma and philosophy of the deeply committed socialist wing of the Australian Labor Party. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  speaking earlier, justified this by saying that the changes were starting at the bottom. But he failed to acknowledge, as one would have expected, the work now being done by the Asprey Committee and the clear undertaking of the Government to receive a report from that Committee, to consider it and then to undertake major changes in the taxing structure. For that reason I believe that we are justified in taking the view that the Government has acted from a purely political point of view, with a political motive, in implementing these changes. 
The Government has certainly seized upon the introduction of the mini-Budget a few weeks ago to cut total taxation fairly considerably. Now, of course, it is using this measure as a means of trying to perpetrate upon the public what might best be described as a Santa Claus approach. 
The Government is giving to the low and middle income earner a substantial benefit. I well recall in the weeks that led up to this legislation, following the Budget, the often expressed term 'the middle income earner' to whom relief would be given. Now we see in the full light of day the way in which the Government acts in this matter. It certainly leaves one with a real lack of confidence in the administration of the treasury bench by the present Government. 
The relief that is envisaged is a pretty hollow proposition. It is nothing less than series of inconsistencies in which we find the taxation and income increments, resulting from wage determinations or other changes in the wage structure, being totally unrelated. I believe that in the present situation, with an inflation rate in excess of 20 per cent per annum, a totally different approach is justified. Certainly the Government should have waited for the report of the Asprey Committee if it were to make the kind of changes that this legislation envisages. This legislation is nothing more than a manoeuvre or a charade, in fact a veneer, to cover up the real deficiencies of the Government's handling of the economy. 
To offer to the low and so-called middle income earner these benefits as some kind of sop against the inflation pressures is certainly misleading. It becomes all the more misleading when one looks at what it does in relation to the relative considerations of the total tax scales. In the debates on tax scales that have taken place in this House over the past four or five years certainly weighty comments have been made about the need for a review and a change. But there has been a recognition of the intricacy of the considerations that must be taken into account. The Government has failed to do that. I believe it is fair to say that in reality what is happening is the first step by the Government in a deep, abiding and motivated intention, based completely on a socialist philosophy, to bring about the implementation of the threat that has been often expressed in the past 2 years to redistribute wealth in Australia. 
The Treasurer said today that in the course of doing this the Government chose to start at the bottom. This presupposes that some sections of the community are getting benefits to which they should not be entitled. It presupposes that there is some inconsistency in the present scale. I question that very much indeed. I believe that if a benefit is to be given to the very low income earner it is proper so to do, but not to do it in a manner, as this legislation proposes, which gives the major benefit to certain sections tapering off to no benefit at all to others in the community whose responsibilities are just as great. Their responsibilities in terms of their day-to-day care of the family and of the home and their attitudes to a standard of life style certainly do not, or should not, place them in the category in which they should be regarded as being able to carry the load. I just express this as a view. Really it is the responsibility of the Government and of the Parliament to consider in depth and in a proper manner the Asprey Committee report when it is submitted. Then these kinds of intricate details can be properly and effectively debated and action taken. Let us not have a continuation of the Government's socialist approach in every matter that comes before this House. Let us make it clear to the public outside, to the community, that really what we are getting today is an overdose of politics and too little consistency in terms of acknowledgement of the economy and what is required to handle the economy. 
I believe that the legislation we are now dealing with is pointing in the wrong direction, is based on the wrong premise, and is certainly on the wrong track in its bid to get rolling the idea of redistributing wealth. This legislation is rushed in on top of earlier proposals that flowed from the Budget and insufficient consideration has been given to it beyond that political content to which I have already referred. It seems that even Caucus is not happy. We well recall public statements by the  chairman  of a Caucus committee referring to a proposal for a super tax on certain incomes. That change was announced. I do not find it being carried through legislatively in the proposals now before the House. Something went wrong along the way. Caucus reversed some decision, which it had made at the start of the week, by the time the end of the week was reached, the next week or whenever it was. 
The property surcharge tax continues. We still have the claim being made today in this House that income earned in one way should suffer a certain imposition from which income earned in another way is free. If that is not the intrusion of a lopsided approach and an injustice, I want to know what is justice in this country. When we look at some of the other propositions, we find concessions being granted at the same time as other concessions that have operated for a long period are being removed. Credit unions are to be given some benefits. I am not opposed to those in the slightest. Despite what has been said from the other side of the House today, I am one who has been in favour of giving proper respect to credit unions and giving them concessions of the kind proposed. But I deprecate the attitude of the Government in respect of another section of the community, that is, those who participate in life assurance. We find that concessions are to be taken away from this area without any proven evidence that there are grounds so to do. Long standing concessions that have applied in this area are being eroded. Many of the aged people in the community who have paid into life assurance over the years, depending on bonus payments to carry them through at a level relative to what has applied for many years, now find those bonuses falling. They are falling at a time of inflation. 
What crazy management to have this kind of action in the face of rampant inflation. In other words, those who thought that they had protection for their families by providing certain life insurance with established bonuses flowing to those policies in response to certain policy commitments, now in the twilight of their lives find that these benefits are being rapidly eroded not only by inflation but also by the actions of this Government which is taking away bonus benefits. I really believe that there will be a day of reckoning concerning this attitude which again involves one law for one section of the community and another law for another section of the community. Obviously these actions are supposed to accord with the philosophy of redistributing wealth in this country. But when one looks at what these proposals have done to the small people and to the honest Australians who have tried to protect their families into the future, one finds that these actions go very much beyond the philosophy that I have just mentioned. They cut at the grass roots of the kind of community and life style that we want to preserve in this country. 
We find throughout the 4 measures that are now before the House a similar attitude. I turn to the matter of the concession to be provided for interest on home loans. This has come after 2 years. The promise was made in 1972 that the home owner would receive concessions in the form of a subsidy on interest. That proposal fell to the ground. Then came another proposition that was to be implemented in a matter of months. It also fell to the ground. Finally we had this proposition for a tax concession, again for the low and middle income earners. It can do nothing to assist housing in this country. It will contribute nothing to the aspiration that every person who possibly can should own his own home and build a family unit in it. It will serve as no real encouragement for young people as, if honourable members look at the scale or at the benefit, they will see that it is quite ridiculous. 
It is ludicrous when studied against the old scheme of a housing grant on the basis of a homes savings account which was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1964. On such a comparison, this proposal has a very hollow ring about it indeed. Yet, it was described as a winner. In fact, it captured the headlines as a proposition not so long ago. It is strange that in reality we find that the Government has had great difficulty first of all in producing this scheme and then, having produced one, to convince people that it really has very much to it. When we think of it in terms of what the administrative costs will be to get this scheme going and then to get the benefit to the average person in the community, it is a joke. The paper work alone will sap a very substantial percentage of the benefit for the nation. 
These kinds of grandiose schemes are all very fine when they are dredged up in the mind of a pseudo-economist who has not taken the proposal through to a practical test and who has not looked at it from the point of view of how it will apply. Then, when it is carried out we find that the bureaucrats are really working overtime to make the proposition a goer. This one is not a goer. The test will come when the average Australian sees what this scheme .does for his pay packet. He will be disappointed and very much disillusioned at the frightfully small advantage. This will be especially the case in respect of those who may be looking forward to some kind of benefit far exceeding what they will receive. 
I conclude by referring to estate duty and the changes which are envisaged in this legislation in that respect. Certainly the increase in the base value of the matrimonial home, to name one area of change, is timely. Taking inflation into account, I assert that this increase just could not have been put off at all if we were to prevent people getting into very grave difficulties in the area of estate duty. 
I support the amendment foreshadowed by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  Whilst we see an attempt being made to provide relief in cases of hardship, I believe that we must know more about what is proposed. I commend the proposition that there should be a board of review established and that that board should have the authority to release persons from liability to pay estate duty either in whole or in pan if it is found that hardship exists. Certainly in the metropolitan area we have today circumstances where the value of ordinary homes has risen to a point where the amounts involved in duty can be quite considerable. Valuations rising to $75,000, $100,000 and more for an ordinary home are now occurring. So, an upper limit of $35,000 as the base concession is still very limited indeed. There will be many instances undoubtedly in which we will find hardship in this respect unless some means of providing relief are introduced. 
The criteria and the system under which the proposed board will operate need to be spelt out. The same circumstances are to be found in relation to rural properties. I point out that 9 months ago a valuation of land and stock in rural areas could have produced an average value for a property exceeding several hundred thousand dollars. In some cases today those figures are still being used for the purpose of assessing death duties. No mechanism is available to deal effectively with the hardship which will flow from that situation. Even now, property values still remain high but the income required to pay duty is just impossible from the point of view of what the asset can return for the beneficiary. Accordingly, a great deal of consideration needs to be given to this in an effective way, if we are to save the viability of country properties and if we are to protect those who are beneficiaries within the family circle and who deserve to be protected from bankruptcy, which will be inescapable unless effective action is taken. For those reasons I strongly support the 2 amendments that have been proposed in relation to the 4 measures before the House. 
The Prime Minister will recall that yesterday the Leader of the Australian Country Party asked him a question about Commonwealth funds for tick research, eradication and control, and that the Prime Minister asked the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory to answer the question. The Prime Minister will know that it was clear from the Minister's answer that he did not know that Commonwealth funds to New South Wales had been discontinued last year and this year. I ask the Prime Minister: Has there been correspondence between himself and the New South Wales Premier on this matter? Has the New South Wales Government been pressing the Commonwealth to continue the provision of funds along the lines that have applied since the 1 920s? Was the decision to cut off this finance made by the Cabinet, or was it a decision made by the Prime Minister alone? Is the Prime Minister aware of the enormous consequences of failure to control cattle ticks- consequences such as redwater outbreaks described very clearly yesterday by the Minister for Northern Development? Finally, I ask the Prime Minister to consider this matter in view of its very great importance to the highly concentrated cattle industry region between Newcastle and the Queensland border which will be so vulnerable if the eradication and control campaign is suspended. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to the closure of the Nymboida coal mine in northern New South Wales, which has placed the jobs of some 100 workers in jeopardy. Will the Minister give consideration to providing financial support through the Joint Coal Board to save the mine, which has been favourably recommended as a viable mine by the Board? Will the Government urgently give practical support to this small mine in its hour of need and show confidence in it similar to that exhibited by the miners who are continuing to work the mine although they were paid off by the mine owners last Friday? 
-The Opposition fully supports this Bill and will cooperate with the Government in giving it a speedy passage. The purpose of the Bill is to strenghten the provisions of the Fisheries Act particularly in relation to control over foreign commercial fishing within the 12-mile declared fishing zone. The action being taken tonight by this Bill will enable this control to come into operation at once. Much work has been done by the staff of the fisheries section of the Department of Agriculture. I especially mention this because that staff has a high level of professionalism which, I believe, is commendable and deserves some mention in this House. This Bill follows discussions which were begun prior to the present Government coming to power and which were continued by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in talks with  President  Suharto of Indonesia last year. It will control the activities of Indonesian fishermen in Australian waters who, from this Saturday as a result of the action taken by the House tonight, will not be able to fish in waters adjacent to the Australian mainland, but will be able to fish in waters off certain specified offshore islands and reefs. 
The provisions of this Bill must not be construed as anti-Indonesian. They are designed to protect the fisheries resources of Australian waters but, more importantly, to prevent the accidental introduction of communicable diseases to the Australian mainland. These diseases are of great and grave importance. The Australian Country Party has been concerned about this matter for a long time, and I know that members of the Opposition generally have taken a very great interest in this aspect. The diseases include cholera, and the bovine diseases such as foot and mouth and blue tongue. Honourable members will all be aware that if, say, a disease such as foot and mouth was accidentally introduced into Australia and was picked up by the native fauna of the areas involved, it would not be long before that disease was communicated throughout Australia, with devastating effects on our major industry- the rural economy. Of course, that would be a serious matter for the nation as a whole. At the moment, foot and mouth disease is present in Bali and it would be very easy to accidentally introduce that disease to the north-west coast of Australia through, to quote a Whitlamism, the 'indeliberate peripatetic activities of Indonesian fishermen'. The provisions of this Bill make it possible for Australia to regulate foreign fishing and declared fishing zones regardless of their purpose or the nationality of the fishing boats concerned. This legislation, through its operation, will do much to prevent illegal fishing operations and directly strengthen Australia's borders from the accidental introduction of communicable diseases. 
In other aspects this Bill amends the original Act following recent administrative changes in relation to the Department of Agriculture. I believe that it is in this respect that these clauses deserve some mention. I have already referred to the Fisheries Division of the Department of Agriculture. The Australian fishing industry currently is facing great difficulties which stem mainly from rising production costs and rising marketing costs. Although statistical information on the fishing industry is difficult to obtain, the figures I have recently seen indicate that the fishing industry is facing an inflation explosion which is discouraging further investment in the industry. From what I can gather, the inflation rate in costs- referring to that part of the operation from setting out to sea and returning- is rising at an annual rate of about 40 per cent.' I think this indicates the particular problems of this industry compared with many other industries. 
At the processing level, the inflation rate is taking a huge bite of possibly 50 per cent. These inflation rate levels, coupled with a relatively low return for Australian fisheries products, domestically and internationally, have meant that the industry in Australia is failing to benefit satisfactorily in terms of the investment involved. The estimated investment level in the Australian fishing industry is approximately $150m. By far the greatest percentage of the industry is in the hands of small owner-operator participants. Because of the nature of the gear involved, as well as the processing requirements, it is an industry which must continually seek to expand its market opportunities, particularly within an environment of raging inflation of the sort to which I have already referred. Very little assistance is available from the Government for the industry to expand its market opportunities. I believe that more should be done in this regard. I think that it needs to be recognised by all of us that the fishing industry is a big industry, and an industry capable of contributing much more to the nation's wealth. At the same time, there is a need to encourage the consumption of Australian fisheries produce within Australia. 
It never ceases to amaze me that when one walks into a local supermarket, the shelves are stocked with fisheries products from overseas. The fish fingers are not Australian;- they come from somewhere else. This is one of the matters that has to be looked at very seriously if we are to do what any honest Australian would want to see done for an Australian industry. When one looks at the monthly import-export figures, one is constantly despondent because of the fact that in terms of total value, we have been importing more fisheries products than we have been exporting. I find this quite ludicrous when it is realised that of all countries, Australia most probably has one of the greatest fisheries resource potentials. I urge the Government to take more action in developing those resources. 
In my earlier comments, I made the point that the Government was very well served by the Fisheries Division of the Department of Agriculture. I think that Division needs to be given greater encouragement along the lines that I have suggested in order to ensure that the fisheries industry can grow and expand profitably. It would be a profitable expansion in terms of national need at this time, and certainly in the national interest. I recall the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  speaking on other occasions on matters concerning developments on the northern coastline of Australia which were directly related to fishery matters. Whilst undoubtedly some progress has been made in the matter of faculties, there was a great set back due to the floods of 1974, and another great set back in recent months due to the tragic effects of the cyclone which struck Darwin on Christmas Day. Undoubtedly these matters are transient and can be overcome. The general pattern of development of the fishing industry, which concerns not just those who operate off the northern shores but also all fishermen around Australia, is a very vital' consideration. Whilst this measure is designed specifically to deal with matters to the north of Australia, it directly concerns the whole of the fishing industry. On behalf of the Opposition I urge that greater emphasis be placed on the needs of this industry and that this legislation perhaps be followed by other positive action by the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
-I second the nomination of  Mr Lucock,  the honourable member for Lyne, for the position of  Chairman  of Committees.  His  attributes are so well known to honourable members and his record in the past has been so dominant that I am sure he will receive strong support from the House for appointment to this position.  Mr Speaker,  it has been emphasised this evening that the -reasons for the vacancies which are required to be filled are an unfortunate chain of events. The actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  bring disgrace on him in a very personal sense but, more importantly, because he is Prime Minister his actions seriously compromise the parliamentary institution whose importance cannot be overstated, even though in the British speaking world we accept it as an everyday thing. Any action which undermines the institution must be dangerous- most dangerous. It is for this reason that I suggest to the House that the calibre, background and experience of the honourable member for Lyne must be taken seriously into account when honourable members vote for the election of the  Deputy Speaker. 
The Prime Minister has shown himself to be completely contemptuous of the institution of Parliament. Therefore it is necessary that we should have occupying the office of  Deputy Speaker  persons who have a strength and a capacity to withstand this challenge. It is not the first time that we have seen the Prime Minister act in an offhand way and in a manner which disregards the Parliament and its conventions. I am sure that his ignoring of the conventions today is typical of his attitude not only to the Parliament but also to the nation as a whole. Of course this arrogance creates a very serious and rather disturbing situation. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Lyne would take every possible action to see that there was impartiality shown not only by those who occupy the chair of this House but also by those who occupy the treasury benches, and this is a necessary thing in the light of what we have experienced today. The effect of the decision of the Prime Minister today is a catastrophe for the parliamentary institution. It now means that the  Speaker  or the  Deputy Speaker,  no matter who he is, cannot have confidence in the Prime Minister who, of course, is backed by the sheer weight of numbers, which was evidenced in a vote taken earlier today. Therefore, I believe that the task of the  Deputy Speaker,  together with that of the  Speaker,  is under challenge. We want to ensure that this House has someone of competence and capacity occupying the chair at all times. Therefore, the office of  Chairman  of Committees becomes one of great importance at this moment. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe that tonight a great responsibility has been thrust upon you, and an equally great responsibility is to be carried by the person who is elected as your  deputy.  I am very concerned, as I know other honourable members are about this matter. Therefore, I ask the House to give its fullest support to the candidature of the honourable member for Lyne for the office of  Chairman  of Committees. 
-I rise to speak on these measures because firstly I regard them as some of the most important pieces of legislation that have come before Parliament this session. However, there is no doubt at all that great disappointment will be felt throughout the community, and particularly throughout the postal and telecommunications service, when the full import of the legislation and its application are clearly understood. Of course the 3 Bills are the result of the Government's decision following consideration of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the operations of the Post Office. I believe it is fair to say that this legislation is simply taking a sledgehammer to crack an egg. It is legislation that has no beginning and no end in respect of the effect it will have on the running, the financing and the operations of the postal and telephone services of Australia. 
The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has very fully and capably canvassed the important ground which needs to be taken into consideration. For my part, I want to refer to some of the anomalies that were originally contained in the legislation. This is pointed up, of course, by the fact that in another place the Government accepted in toto amendments proposed by the Opposition. To some extent this has shored up the weaknesses in the legislation. But of course an Opposition is limited to the extent that it can only make proposals; it is a matter for the Government to make determinations and then to implement those determinations. It is obvious in this legislation that emphasis is being over-weighted in terms of the administrative approach, apparently in the hope and the expectation that this will resolve the inherent problems which exist in the postal and telephone services. When mentioning problems I refer of course to the tremendous cost factor which has occasioned such steep rises in tariffs in all fields and such steep rises in postal charges and the like, and at the same time we find a debt of no less than $60m being incurred. 
It is evident that in order to deal with this very severe loss and to comply with the objectives that are the basis of the legislation the first thing that will happen is that postal charges will be increased substantially. I think it is no exaggeration to say that this will result in the postage on an ordinary letter rising to a figure in the range from 14c to 15c or even more depending on whether the motive in the first place is to create a pay-as-you-go operation on the part of the proposed Postal Commission. Let us take for a moment the effect of that on the community, on the present day circumstances of business in this nation as we know it and the result on business of such an increased cost in postal services. Without a doubt it would spell the end of the operation of the Post Office as it has been traditionally known over the years, the end of it in terms of the usage of the postal service for the dissemination of all kinds of material, particularly those classified articles ranging through all of the publications, newspapers and the like. 
In terms of the ordinary letter rate, once an increase of that magnitude occurs a fall-off in business is predictable and alternatives will be found by the community. People will seek these alternatives without a doubt. The first thing that will happen is that the new Postal Commission will be faced with an even greater dilemma than the governments of the present and past have faced in the operation of the Post Office. So I emphasise that this legislation certainly has not tackled the real root of the problem. The Government's motive with regard to the postal service is to set up a new administrative approach. Despite the recommendations of the Royal Commission that there should be a contraction in the regional management, which the report states in some detail will be a revenue saving operation, what do we find? The proposals go further. They seek to set up a new central administration and the cost of that is already predicted to be very substantial. Then of course the alterations that will flow in terms of the contraction at regional levels, despite what has been said by the Postmaster-General in a statement dated 20 May last, will lead to higher costs. 
I put that point forward merely by taking the plain facts of the matter. Firstly, it is suggested that some greater responsibility will be placed on the shoulders of the postmasters in their various gradings. If that is to be done, there has to be some oversight and a situation will develop whereby much larger district postal manager regions will operate. This will mean greater distances and will mean a completely changed approach to the management of these regions. Let us take the basis of them. We believe that they have been created to accord with the regions established by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. This may be a worthy objective, but when we see what it means in terms of the geography of this country we find immediate confusion. We find that the boundary changes will ignore geographical considerations, and will ignore many of the commercial considerations which are important if the postal operation is to accord with the commercial needs of the community. 
If we look at the guarantee given to the staff that no one will be disadvantaged by the changes that will occur in the setting up of the 2 Commissions, we find that the status of all those presently employed by the Postmaster-General's Department is virtually guaranteed and that new positions are to be created in the postal service and in the field of telecommunications. The result will be an upgrading. For those who will benefit, that is commendable. Many of those people will have earned the right to some progression within the service. But is there an economy as a consequence of this move? Obviously there is not. I take as a basis for some of my assertions the appendix to the statement made by the Postmaster-General on 20 May in which there is a listing of the district postal manager offices that are to be closed, together with comparable numbers of people employed in both postal and telecommunications services in each of these centres and the increased staff factor anticipated in telecommunications. This surely is pulling the wool over the eyes of people within the service and the community at large. 
When we look at the figure relating to the reduction of the postal staff, it obviously alludes to those at management level. On the telecommunications side the increases can be nothing more or less than the ordinary growth factor that would occur. It is certainly misleading to infer that there is no real disturbance. I believe that when some of those directly concerned have the opportunity of assessing the effect of this proposal, they will be bitterly disappointed. On the other hand, I think the Government is to be commended for having maintained the regional approach that currently exists in the operation of the telecommunications service. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in answering a question in this House this morning asked by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson),  asserted that proposals for area management that were put forward in the period of the previous Government had been a drastic change that was not warranted. If the Minister recollects clearly, he will recall that the then Government, by conscious decision, decided not to go ahead with that proposal and for very good reasons. Those reasons were spelt out in this House. Many inquiries were made within the Postmaster-General's Department and the records will disclose that the decision to cancel the original proposal was well based and that the grounds upon which this action was taken related to costs, the effective administration of the service and its growth requirements. 
Today, in this legislation we have a brand new approach, and telecommunications regions will be obliged to produce a revenue result. Had the legislation proceeded as originally introduced, there is no doubt that there would have been a severe adverse impact on many country regions of Australia. That adverse impact would have been the consequence of the requirement that the financial result would be the yardstick in terms of development works, in terms of capital financing, and in terms of what could be done in the more distant parts of Australia. For that matter, it could have had exactly the same effect on rapidly growing industrial areas, on decentralised areas or anywhere where a growth factor or a developmental factor was the basis of the need for the service. 
The amendments to the legislation in another place to some extent overcome this, but it will all hinge completely on the interpretation, the use and the administration of what is now termed revenue forgone provisions'. This will impose a very great responsibility on the Minister who will be in charge of the Commissions which are being set up. We do not know who the Minister in charge will be or whether he will be a Postmaster-General. We gather that he will not be; we gather that that office will no longer exist. So some Minister, unnamed, will have the responsibility of receiving reports from the Commissions and of determining what will happen under the provisions of the revenue forgone proposal which was tabled by the Minister last night. 
It could be, of course, that a government that has a willingness to recognise the fundamental needs of service will see that there is some balance between the tariffs and the rates that are set by the Commissions, the gap that might arise and the requirements of the community, in the direction of both capital development and of plain service because in this period of ravaging inflation both will turn out to be very costly items in the budgeting of the 2 Commissions. If there is a sympathetic Minister and a sympathetic Government, we might run along for a year or two with some satisfaction to the community; but if on the other hand there is a firm rein on any extra revenue provision, then the community must suffer. It must suffer in one of two ways: Either costs will be astronomical or the service will be cut. In relation to expansion, whether it be for capital purposes in telecommunications or for the business of providing a better mail delivery service, the funds will not be available. 
These, I believe, are the fundamental issues which arise with this legislation and which are not adequately tackled, taking into consideration the real recommendations of the Royal Commission. Without a doubt, the Royal Commission was intended to give an answer. It did to a certain extent, but then it devolved on the Government to make decisions, to come up with the answers. What has the Government done? It has shoved the whole responsibility onto 2 Commissions; it has abdicated its responsibility. 
The Government has done this in a manner that I think is typified by the answer given earlier in this debate by the Special Minister of State, who is at the table, when the honourable member for Gippsland asked what the real provisions of the foreshadowed legislation on overseas telecommunications would be. It was believed, when this legislation was before another place and when it came into this House, that there would be a clear cut situation: The Government had accepted that there would not be an amalgamation of these 2 services at that juncture. The Government indicated that it wished to bring forward another piece of legislation. The understanding was that this was simply to accord with this broad decision and that that would be that. But I think it is fair to predict that we will now see another piece of legislation which will make all sorts of provisions that have not thus far been described to this House. Yet, we are putting through this legislation when it would be only right and proper for the rest of the story to be revealed. If in fact we find that there is a change of this kind, the Opposition's attitude to the whole matter accordingly must change as well. There is no doubt that there will be a great interest on the part of all concerned to discover just what else is being proposed. 
On the simple issue as to whether these 2 services should be amalgamated, I hold a strong view. I believe that, until such time as it is proved conclusively that there is justification and reason for such an amalgamation, it is fair enough that any action along these lines should not occur. If we want a simple reason for this stand, we should look merely at the action of the Government in relation to postal and telecommunication services. The action of the Government currently is to split these services in two by setting up 2 separate Commissions. It is taking this action on the grounds that the establishment of these 2 Commissions will lead to efficiency by separation so that there will be no distortion between the 2 bodies. For those services which one may operate on behalf of the other body, no doubt there will be a service charge. That has been referred to, as so many other aspects in relation to the staff of the 2 services are referred to in the legislation. Yet, in the very same proposition, we were asked until the proposal was dropped to amalgamate 2 other sections of the service. The Government cannot have it both ways, on the pure basis of logic The Government certainly cannot propose this on the grounds that have been advanced today, that is, that there is something else to be put to the Parliament. Whilst on the one hand I rise to give my support to the legislation insofar as the amendments to it that have been accepted in the other place create a situation as we now know it, I certainly do so with the proviso that until the rest of the story unfolds I have to express a word or two of caution or, to some extent, reservation. 
In conclusion, I make only this observation: If we are to see ultimately an operation that will perform the service required, there must be less confusion in the matter of what the real costs are for capital purposes, for expansion and for the provision of what might be termed the community need. Under the present Government, we just do not get that. We just do not receive a fair and honest accounting. All we receive is criticism of what past governments have done and what some political parties believe to be the principle that ought to be predominant in this regard. I do not need to canvass that aspect. The honourable member for Maranoa has referred to it most adequately. But this is the basis and the consideration that must not be overlooked if we are to maintain and to expand the services as we have known them in the past and if those services are to avoid the kind of dilemma that other public services, such as railways in some of the Australian States, shipping to a certain extent around Australia, and other forms of communication, have faced. If that happens to the services which provide telephone and postal communications, it will be a sad day for Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement in regard to this matter. 
-As a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I want to make a very brief statement endorsing the comments of the  Chairman  of the Committee in the presentation of the report which has just been tabled in the House. The report is a cautious one in that it views with some concern the commitment of a large amount of money on a particular project, a project of great importance to Australia and to the Australian community. This involves questions of finance and resource management as well as the important environmental considerations. The Committee has found that these effects are quite considerable when we relate them to future development of Australia and the future care of a very important element in terms of resources in Australia. 
I fully support the findings and recommendations contained in this report. I suggest that they be given very close attention in the formulation of any legislation relative to the matters that are referred to in the report. I would also like to say how pleased I am to have been a member of the Committee. In my opinion it, more than any other parliamentary committee, is making a very solid contribution to the work of Parliament through the Committee system. I believe that the statistics the  Chairman  gave in relation to this inquiry are indicative of the activities of the Committee and set the pattern as to what committees of this kind can do in the interests of legislation and in the interests of the work of this Parliament. I wish that other committees might follow the example that this one has set. 
In conclusion, I pay a tribute to the staff who have worked so assiduously in this regard and to the other members of the Committee who have worked in a dedicated fashion to bring into this House a very useful report. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! What is the honourable member seeking to do? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Did the Minister confide last week in officers of his Department that he believed that the Government would soon lose office? Have Budget cuts axed the Minister's personal plans for urban and regional development? Will planning and administrative staff of the Department be reduced in proportion to these financial cuts and will the Minister make a statement outlining the new situation in which he finds himself? 
-The legislation to extend the Bill which prevents foreign takeovers now before the House must be supported. In doing so, however, I want to deprecate the attitude of the Government in this matter. 
-I want to do so particularly on the grounds that members such as the honourable member for Blaxland who interjected seem to regard it as the sole political right of members of his Party to express views on and to assert principles and all that goes with it. At this juncture some comment is warranted on the origin of the legislation. When we recall that the original legislation was put on the statute book by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972, 1 think it ill behoves members such as the honourable member for Blaxland and others, in a quite misleading and mischievous way, to denigrate the Opposition whenever the question of foreign takeover, foreign investment and foreign ownership is debated in this country. 
One must recall that for many years- for a couple of decades, in fact- under a LiberalCountry Party Government, there was tremendous expansion and growth in this nation. That was done without any sell-out or takeover of the kind that prejudiced the development of Australia or the utilisation of Australia's natural resources. We have listened to comments this afternoon and on other occasions which, of course, give a very misleading picture of the lead-up to this legislation and the circumstances which brought it about. I want to recall, however, that in the period prior to 1972 administration by a Liberal-Country Party Government in this matter was effective, proper and in every respect was designed to achieve- and in fact did achieve- the results that were needed to give this country the kind of expansion and development which we then enjoyed but which has now, at the hands of the present Government, been well and truly lost. 
Let us take, for example, the population trend. Let us go back 20 years. At that time we had a miserable population level in this country of about 4 million or 5 million. If we take the growth factor that occurred in the post-war period it could be sustained only by the development of our natural resources. This was done under guidelines laid down by the previous Government and, of course, implemented by the administration of that Government in a most effective way. 
The honourable member says 'when?'. He, of course, does not want to remember that those guidelines which operated as a directive to the Reserve Bank, which put certain restrictions on capital coming into this country, the purpose for which that capital could be utilised and the nature of the businesses and enterprises to which it could be directed, really did a tremendous job of work for the development of this country. The honourable member who is attempting to interject again knows very well that former Ministers for Trade- I particularly refer to  Sir John  McEwen- had a policy which was in Arm hands and which really did implement the guidelines which were there and which are still the basis of the legislation being dealt with this afternoon. Those guidelines are very carefully referred to by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in his second reading speech and by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  in his contribution to the debate a little while ago, and in such a manner as to disclose that there is still a recognition of the importance of not having a star chamber process to determine what should and should not be done but that there should be guidelines which can be relied upon and implemented in a discreet, proper and realistic manner in the interests of investment in Australia. The honourable member who interjected would not understand that for a number of reasons. 
I want to recall the catch-cry of members of the Australian Labor Party in this House, led particularly by the former honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and a number of others in 1971-72. So blatant was their campaign that they denied the truth of the real issues involved. Over many years they talked about Australia being sold out. Then we had the clowning operation of members of the then Opposition floating publicly a buy back Australia campaign and even calling for contributions from the public. Of course members of the unsuspecting public, no doubt in great numbers, forwarded funds to a member whose name was publicised at the time. I think there would be reference to this matter in Hansard. He was going to buy back the Simpson Desert or do something of that kind. I wonder where the funds went. Of course, all of that was an effective campaign, based purely on emotions, to try to stir up and to undermine the real situation that existed in Australia at that time. We were in great need of funds to develop the natural resources of Australia but, of course, we insisted upon the implementation of the guidelines which prevented takeovers, which prevented a sell-out and which required investment to be done on orthodox and legitimate grounds. That was achieved despite the interference of the then Opposition. 
What have we seen since that time? In the space of a little more than 2 years the present Government has relied upon the legislation introduced by the previous Government. All that we will be doing this afternoon in passing the BUI that is before the House will be to strengthen slightly those guidelines and the subsequent legislation and, in so doing, really to maintain what had been carried on for a quite long time before that. There is obviously good reason for this being the real pOliCy of the Government today. That good reason is because it has found to its dismay that it cannot attract investment into Austrafia. It has tried aU sorts of phoney means of bringing funds into the arena of the private sector. It has, of course, sought through the notorious channels that have been referred to in this House in previous debates to raise funds overseas in a manner that really reflects the incompetence and the stupidity of certain members of the Government. 
What has the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  tried to do? He has tried to nationalise major Australian interests by seeking loan funds running into $3,000m or $4,000m from dubious sources overseas. Comparing that with the kind of system that has applied in the last couple of decades is like comparing a kindergarten with a full blown senior school as to knowing what it is aU about. The kindergarten approach that we have seen on the part of the Government really has been the cause of the drying up of funds for investment in Australian development. As a consequence we are now experiencing one of the worst depressions in this field in Australia's history. 
Last night's Budget did nothing to correct the morass, the mess, the hideous situation in which we find ourselves whereby we have people unemployed and we have no development taking place of a nature that wil be revenue producing for this country and that wil provide job opportunities of the kind that could be offered. This is at a time when it is vital that we have basic development because, without it, we will not be able to withstand the pressures of the present economic climate, either in terms of trade or in terms of the economic situation internally or externally. This legislation fortunately does go part of the way towards giving some assurance to the people who would seek to invest in this country. I was pleased to hear some of the expressions made by the Minister for Overseas Trade in this regard. At least he was realistic in the speech that he made. What a contrast that was to the clowning by other honourable members on the Government side of the chamber, including the honourable member for Chifley, who interjected a short time ago. 
-If the honourable member for Chifley does reply he will just parrot the old claim that Austrafia has been sold out and that the Liberal-Country Party Government did not know its job. But who Will deny that today's depression is very largely the result of the effect of the kind of policies, the kind of attitudes and the kind of stupidity that have flowed from the Government benches in the short time that the present Government has been in office? 
I want to refer in particular to the reference made to this legislation by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  I believe that both of them traversed the important ingredients of the BUI- the various provisions it contains- and made very objective comment on them. For my part I say that the National Country Party of Australia has for a very long time adhered to the principle that we must not sell out Austrafia. In supporting this legislation it again cements that very firm conviction, but with the provisos which are so vital that where there is need for participation on a joint venture basis or participation on the basis that Australian capital is not available to undertake some major project or other, or where the development of natural resources cannot proceed without the assistance of overseas capital then it is right and proper that through this legislation, the previous legislation and the guidelines that preceded that, this kind of development should take place. 
Time does not permit one to traverse the history of foreign investment in Australia, but suffice it to say that without it we would be a miserable example as a nation. Without what has been done over the years, with a few exceptions, this country would not be standing in the position it is in at the present dme. I take one enterprise as an example- the great Mt Isa development. There was not enough Austraiian capital to open that venture. The mineral lying there was known to exist but risk capital was required and backing was required to get the project going. It was an unprofitable venture for something like ten or fifteen years. Without overseas assistance the job just could not have been done. Relate that to the miserable attempts being made at the present time by the Government to implement a nationalisation policy in the areas in which major development is required. In that respect I think of the pipeline venture, which could have been undertaken and completed by private enterprise. 
What is happening at the present time? First of all there is to be the expenditure of a huge amount of public funds. Public funds that ought to have been made available for other purposes are being channelled into this particular venture. What will be the ultimate result? Despite the reluctance of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to answer questions on this issue this morning, I am sure that history will disclose very clearly that nationalisation of this project was a great mistake for Australia. Funds that could have been spent on so many other aspects of community welfare and administration have been sunk into this project, which could have been undertaken by private enterprise. I think it will turn out to be a real error of judgment on the part of the present Government. I instance that because it is the kind of project that could have been undertaken by an Australian company without the need to call upon foreign investment to any extent to see it through. 
That is just one example. If we find that the same kind of attitudes and policies are being applied in relation to the implementation of the legislation which is now before the House I am afraid that the provisions of the legislation will fall very short of what they could in fact do in the interests of development and expansion. All of this relates, of course, to important considerations, not just of this legislation in isolation but of the overall financial policy of the Government, its export policy, its export earning policy in particular, its policy on natural resources and especially its policy in relation to minerals. The Opposition has tried for months to get the Minister for Minerals and Energy to tell this Parliament, to tell Australia and to tell the nation what his real policy is on the development of our mineral resources. Thus far we have been totally unsuccessful in persuading the Minister to make any clear statement, to enunciate any policy whatsoever so that this nation can know where it is going, except of course to know that it is going down the drain in this direction. 
In supporting this legislation I submit that this legislation alone is totally insufficient. If we are to restore confidence in this country, if we are to restore our economic structure and if we are to restore full employment all of these other matters need to be taken into account. I believe it is a tragedy that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  failed to make any competent contribution in this direction in his Budget Speech last night. He would have known that the legislation we are now considering was on the notice paper and would be dealt with by this Parliament during the current week. I believe that there was an opportunity to tell Australia and the world what we really plan to do to restore confidence and to again see a resurgence in the development of Australia's natural resources. This is all tied up with the question of foreign investment in this country and of attracting the funds required. No one can deny that funds are not required. The tragic efforts of the Government to seek funds to the extent of $3,000m or $4,000m prove conclusively that the Government recognises that there is a need for vast sums of money to be utilised if we are to bridge the gap that already exists. If we are to restore to some semblance of common sense a businesslike approach in regard to Australia's future this legislation is very important. But it falls to the ground unless the other matters to which I have referred are given adequate attention. 
I make one final appeal. It is time for members of the ALP- it is time for those rather hotheaded members of the back bench of the Government- to give up their propaganda against private enterprise and foreign investment, to become realists and to see that their folly has produced the unemployment problem that we have today and has put Australia into the position of losing its respect internationally for investment. It is time for the Government to restore confidence and to get this nation on the move again. 
I move: 
That this House condemns the wholesale removal of general decentralisation incentives in the absence of a detailed and publicly stated decentralisation policy. 
The Federal Labor Government has completely destroyed decentralisation incentives and has turned its back on country towns and cities. In the short space of 2 years there has been wholesale removal of general incentives which encouraged basic decentralisation. Country towns and cities now face the bleakest growth outlook since the ravages of the Great Depression 4 decades ago. Unemployment levels are higher in country towns and cities than anywhere else. Non-metropolitan Australia is facing an economic debacle unprecedented in its severity at the hands of an unprincipled and crazy government. 
There is today uncertainty and a lack of confidence never before encountered in country areas. Enormous problems which confront country areas today stem from economic mismanagement brought about by amateurs and intellectuals pursuing their socialist philosophies. The Labor Government attempted to bring about sweeping changes overnight. Much of the destruction of decentralisation incentives was a direct result of these actions and the consequences of the dreaded Coombs report. 
In country towns and cities the ravages of the savage actions of the Government in its  2Vi  year rampage are now taking a serious toll. The petrol price differential for country areas was removed and transport costs have skyrocketed. Fuel prices have been increased steeply by the Budget impost of $2 a barrel on crude oil, resulting in 6c a gallon increase in petrol prices- another slap at decentralisation. Postal and telephone charges have increased at an explosive pace. The consequences are that decentralised industry has no hope of shouldering the burden, let alone the ordinary country dweller, businessman, local government authority or anyone else who must use these services heavily. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  promised in 1972 lower charges for country industries. So much for his promise. 
The 25 per cent ^discriminate tariff cut threw entire industries in country areas into chaos. No relief of an effective nature was given. Successive currency revaluations altered the whole balance of our export and domestic industries, but in particular hit at country based industries and dragged down those associated with primary industry. The credit squeeze was devastating for decentralisation and future prospects for growth and development through decentralisation was throttled. Investment in plant and capital equipment has fallen off dramatically in the past 2 years. Interest rates have been crippling and no concessions have been provided for decentralisation in this regard. It is the country areas of Australia that have been hardest hit by the Government's cut back and inflationary policies. 
There has been great discrimination and this must be corrected. 
The confused result of the ministerial committee's deliberations on the Regional Employment Development scheme only yesterday is typical of the failure to introduce any realistic, effective, practical or workable decentralisation scheme. The RED scheme was full of weaknesses but it was better than paying people not to work at all. What is wrong with a policy of spending some of the massive unemployment benefits payments on productive work projects in country areas through private enterprise and local government? 
Nothing of this sort has been attempted or even proposed by the Government. Last year rural costs rose by 35 per cent, double the increase in the consumer price index figure, and income declined by 10 per cent. Is this growth across the nation? Of course it is not and the words of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in presenting his alternative Budget were perfectly correct. 
Despite the hugh expenditure incurred in bringing into existence the Department of Urban and Regional Development, no decentralisation POliCY has been forthcoming. No fund for incentives for decentralisation of industry, either through the State governments or direct, was ever established by this socialist Government. Positive proposals have never eventuated from the Prime Minister or the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in this allimportant area of decentralisation. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government supported the States in an effective decentralisation policy. 
In 1972 the previous Government moved to establish a $100m decentralisation assistance fund. This was scrapped by the incoming Labor Government. Even worse has been the failure to produce a policy of decentralisation of industry or for decentralised development for the announced growth centres such as AlburyWodonga, Bathurst-Orange or any other designated area. On the other hand, vast expenditure has been committed for land acquisition and planning but nothing for incentives for industry. During the past couple of weeks the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has made a lamentably weak attempt to attack the Leader of the Opposition on the issue of delaying expenditure on growth centres in order to give priority to the economic recovery of aU Australia 
The problem of decentralisation stagnation is much more an economic issue than an academic exercise in planning. This cogent fact seems to have escaped the notice of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Prime Minister. I will bet the Minister replies to my remarks today with the same platitudes, the same cliches and the same well-worn dogma of socialism that he has uttered constantly since he became the Minister. He talks of real growth in growth centres. Yet the States and the corporations have not been directly assisted to build houses. Not one house has been constructed, one family settled or one industry established. Of course, the people of these chosen areas want growth. Of course they favour regional growth centres because they expect some honesty and some purposeful action from the Government which made the rosy promises. So do the honest people who live in hope in all other country towns and cities. They too want a poliCY from this Government now bereft of ideas and of policies. 
The Government stands condemned for its failure to make known any decentralisation pOliCY- even a meagre one. It has taken away what the previous Government did by way of incentives and concessions. It has failed to honour even the promise on telephone charges. It has done nothing to assist the States to sponsor and encourage decentralised development, and so the countryside stagnates. The Labor Government has pursued policies which were motivated by ideology and by a blind adherence to socialist myths. The federal system of Government in Australia is more than just a means of dividing up political responsibility between the central and State governments. It is a system which guarantees political freedom and the rights of the individual by decentralised power. The rush towards centralism and the undermining of the power of the States which has been a feature of the Whitlam Government is central to the implementation of socialism in Australia. 
In the face of this reckless and irresponsible pOliCY the problems of decentralised development which existed and which past governments recognised and grappled with have been brought to a head. The result has been widespread uncertainty and loss of confidence in the economic considerations of decentralisation, both large and small. It has been estimated by people with a real concern for the quality of life in Australia with a concern for the well being of honest Australians that some 150 000 small businesses are in danger of collapse if the present policies of the Government are allowed to continue. Small business is the backbone of the Australian economy, giving employment to 42 per cent of our work force. Many of these small businesses are the pillars of decentralisation. The present Labor Government is prepared apparently to see them sacrificed. We on this side of the House are not. 
A Liberal-National Country Party government would implement the recommendations of the Mathews committee on company tax. It would implement stock valuation adjustment proposals from the Mathews recommendations for company tax payable in 1 975-76 at 50 per cent of the recommended rate for stock valuation. It would also introduce a 40 per cent investment allowance to supersede the accelerated depreciation allowance for plant and equipment installed before June 1977. This would be continued at the rate of 20 per cent for a further 5-year period. It would suspend the quarterly company taxation payments. It would introduce the right of companies to retain a percentage of their earnings untaxed for capital investment. We would regard these measures as a fundamental requirement of restoring decentralised development and taking positive action to encourage productive industry as well as putting funds in the right direction for productive growth. This is a sharp contrast to the Government's Budget, the Government's approach and the Minister's very recent statements. 
The Prime Minister has become obsessed with ideas of grandeur in many fields. His Minister for Urban and Regional Development is similarly obsessed. On 18 June last the Prime Minister released a statement on regional policy. It said nothing about decentralised development but much about planning. It said: 
The Australian Government has adopted a regional policy in implementing some of its major new initiatives. 
Let us consider what they are. The Australian Assistance Plan and the Area Improvement Program are notable examples. Well  Mr Deputy Speaker,  not many new people can be employed with these phoney instruments for a better way of life and it seems to me that there is negative productivity from the same grand schemes. It is just not good enough! 
The objectives of the Government for regionalism were similarly void of economic reality. Not one word about decentralised development of industry, for employment, production or economic growth, productive industry and the like got a mention. Is it any wonder that nonmetropolitan unemployment is so disasterous under this Government? Then, of course, we have the antic of an attack on the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he made a factual and correct statement on growth centre expenditure and the Government's failure to achieve results. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development fell right into this one, as did the Prime Minister. Last Wednesday the Minister told the House that in the past 3 years Albury-Wodonga had a growth rate of 3.1 per cent, which was 9 times the growth rate of similar rural areas. Well it did. The growth came from development which was not the result of the Government's actions when it failed to build one house or attract one factory. It came from the confidence that people had in this area before it was selected as a growth centre, a confidence that will not last unless some positive decentralisation move is made. But what about the other areas he mentions as being 9 times below 3.1 per cent? 
I do not speak today without some background study of the problem. In recent weeks I visited a number of new towns overseas in Britain and in North America. A most eminent administrator given the responsibility of general managership of the largest projected new town in Britain, the town of Milton Keynes, who has had experience in a similar role in other new towns, gave the best advice I could find. He said: 
First get a couple of good industries . . . attract them by giving them concessions and then look for people and encourage a community to build around the industries. To do otherwise is fatal. 
The other lesson to be gained from the experience of other countries is to give general incentives to encourage general decentralisation- not just in one or two selected areas. Countries like Scotland, Norway and Canada and many others have proved this beyond doubt. We on this side of the House recognise the need for policies which offer this prospect. We will see that they are implemented. 
The selective growth centre concept should not imply the exclusion of other centres and regions from a national program of balanced development. This exclusion must not be allowed. In fact, the acceptance of, and success of, the selective approach could well depend on the extent to which it is possible to assure non-selected areas that their normal needs and their development potential will not be neglected. A complete national program must define the role of these other areas and provide for an equitable share of the resources they help to generate. 
The role of small country centres in stemming the metropolitan drift- and they can in total make a worthwhile contribution- should not be ignored. Again, industries should be encouraged to establish themselves wherever they want to go. The major fact, however, must be the provision of incentives to industry and commerce to locate or relocate in regional areas. The incentive of appropriately priced and readily available transport and communication facilities I have already mentioned. It is imperative that this action be taken and it must be taken quickly if decentralised development is to be resuscitated. 
We on this side of the House wil not be sidetracked by intellectuals, amateurs and theorists who dominate the thinking and the attitudes of the present Government. It is imperative to restore confidence economically and to restore incentives for decentralised development. Our policies will be practical because we will put first things first. The Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  have very clearly stated this. All our efforts will be directed to spending where the investment will yield a return- in productivity, in employment, in growth, and in fundamental development, not in empty space, with no houses, no industries and no results. 
After the shakey efforts of the Minister to extract himself from the claim that there is growth in Albury-Wodonga, the Prime Minister announced the transfer of public servants to bolster the poor record of actual development in the growth centres. We have no quarrel with that; we applaud it. But what about the provision of homes and accommodation for the chosen departments? As the editorial in  The Canberra Times  yesterday so correctly stated: 
The impetus for growth in real terms must come from elsewhere, from productive private enterprise, but one wonders whether the Government has framed any of its national policies with the aim of inducing private enterprise to settle in the designated growth centres. 
Perhaps the opposite is the real truth. At all events now is hardly the time to be discussing new growth when the burning question is whether there is any growth at all in the national economy and when the reality is that the cost of communications and of road and air travel and transport makes any expansion of commercial activities into the country an unlikely proposition. 
Let us get our priorities straight. Accordingly I have moved today that this House condemns the wholesale removal of general decentralisation incentives in the absence of a detailed and publicly stated decentralisation policy. It is up to the Government to face the real issues and not to turn away from them. When we are returned to the Treasury benches real and positive commercial activities will be restored to the countryside and decentralisation will again become a reality. 
-The estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development which we are considering are of considerable importance because of the clear indication of the Government's failure and of the particular failure of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to achieve any worthwhile decentralised development. This is evident from the detail of the content of the utterances by the Minister and in particular it is reiterated tonight by those who have spoken from the Government side. For example, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  spoke with great eulogy about the area improvement development in certain parts of his electorate. I just pose the question: Was this development a contributing factor to the downturn in the economy of those areas? Of course it was, because the wrong thing was done first. We are not opposed to the proposals of the kind that have been referred to. The National Estate aspect, areas improvement programs of the sort that has been described, the project in Tilba Tilba which was referred to, for example, are worthy objectives indeed. 

 Mr IAN ROBINSON The Minister refers to sewerage and drainage. I remind the Minister that in the normal course of events, had this Government been supporting the State governments in a financial arrangement of the kind that ought to apply in this day and age and having regard to the present economic situation, these works would be being undertaken and some slack would be taken up in the present unemployment problems because the program would be one designed to be productive, to be effective and not to be simply the result of the ego of the Minister and a centralised department. 
In the short time at my disposal, I want to refer to some of the salient features of the failure of the Government in matters related to decentralised development. First of all, we have seen a policy implementation, admitted by the Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as a conscious decision of the Government in office, to apply all its resources to growth centres. Of course the emphasis has been on planning, land acquisition and all of those things. But no emphasis at all has been on encouragement of industry, on the promotion of productivity or on the creation of employment. If ever there were evidence of an abject failure we have it today in this community of ours in the Australian scene, a failure that is a reflection on everyone concerned with the activities of this so-called Department of Urban and Regional Development. There has not been development, there has not been growth and there has not been a fundamental approach that accords with the problems of this day and age. What we want to see is the introduction of a sensible program, of something that would create effective, balanced development, that would give job opportunities, that would give growth outside the metropolitan areas and that at the same time would take account in a sensible and practical way of these everyday needs of water, sewerage and the like. 
This can effectively be done and can be done in a practical manner. But all we have at the moment is a hotchpotch of over-administration and under-planning, if one can call it that, and the product of a socialist ideology gone mad to the extent that the expenditure has been channelled into huge land acquisition propositions in some areas with a complete failure to go ahead in others. For example, in the Bathurst-Orange area we find that a great number of landholders do not know where they stand. An area of 20 000 acres of farm land involving 42 families is in doubt. These people are concerned to know what their position will be. They approached the Minister in May last. They have had no real answer to their problem. More than a year ago, when the economy trended in the disastrous direction in which it has now gone, the Minister could have changed his plans to accord with what would produce an effective result in the administration of his Department. He failed completely to do that. 
We on this side of the chamber believe that the welfare of all sections of the community is important. We believe that grandiose plans of the sort that this Department has created are an abject failure. Perhaps in the long term they could be useful, but at half the cost and with a more effective approach. What do we see today? Nothing at all related to the encouragement of private enterprise, private capital or private investment. Until this is achieved growth centres will be a failure. The attempt to prop them up, which we have seen in the last few weeks, by trying to direct public servants to move from one place to another - 
The Minister said that for 23 years we failed completely. Now he is wanting to justify one of his own actions by admitting that perhaps something was achieved. But if the Minister looks at the real story of the transfer of public servants from Melbourne to Canberra he will find that it was done on a very different basis from what the Minister is proposing today. I suggest he check and look at the record so that he might have better luck in terms of today's propositions. However, I do not want to be diverted from the main point of the question. The latest addition to the conglomerate of urban and regional affairs is the Australian Housing Corporation. What do we find in this move? A move to take funds away from the existing terminating building societies, no doubt in order to implement yet another of the Minister's great schemes to force things onto people rather than to have an accord with what might be a practical proposition in a commercial sense. 
I suggest that the Minister might have a second look at that proposal. If he has enough failures on his plate he might follow the fate of some of his fellow front benchers who came in with such enthusiasm. We grant that he has enthusiasm and drive, but with tremendous energy being directed very much in the wrong direction. The Opposition believes that there are things that can be effectively done in the interests of the objectives that have been stated. We certainly do not quarrel with the objectives of establishing growth centres; the manner of implementing the program we do quarrel with. We certainly quarrel with the Minister in regard to his stated policy of establishing growth centres and doing nothing else for decentralised development. 
He admitted in this House within the last 3 weeks that he and the Prime Minister are firmly committed to a policy of establishing growth centres located on main transport links between capital cities. In saying this he spelt out clearly that no one else will be considered and no other area, regardless of whether there is justification, will be given assistance. There will be no encouragement to industry. This whole plan is based purely on this one socialistic approach. I think the Minister criticised the Opposition by saying that prior to the advent of this approach the previous Government had been shooting from the hip. It had been doing a pretty good job. Take the record of the Liberal-Country Party administration. With the population growth in this countryof course, there are certain disabilities in regard to the trends and where those trends move to- before the economic crisis that this Government created, we were getting some evenness in the non-metropolitan growth in New South Wales. The Minister well knows the figures. I challenge him to give evidence as to why that growth has suddenly slowed to a halt and why he is doing nothing to overcome that basic problem. The answer lies in the fact that he has turned in the opposite direction and in so doing has undermined the whole basis of practical decentralised development in this country and particularly in the State of New South Wales. I am sure that if this Department is allowed to grow as it has- the estimate which we are now considering provides for obvious further administrative growth- we will see a worsening of this unfortunate trend and certainly a complete failure on the part of the Department to achieve decentralised development. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
The Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation has reached agreement on findings and recommendations which have been presented to the Parliament and if implemented will ensure that at least that part of our coastline in the Jervis Bay area will be available for the use and enjoyment of the community. Although the report concerns a specific localised area with its own particular problems, the Committee has attempted to set down guidelines which could give a lead to land use planning in other areas, particularly where conflicts have occurred or are possible between environmental and various other interests. 
The report highlights the need for government at all levels to be increasingly aware of the priceless heritage represented by the many beautiful parts of our Australian coastline. It also stresses the requirement for the effective management and preservation of Australian coastline resources which are currently hampered by the lack of a co-ordinated land use policy developed by the Federal and State governments in consultation with local governments. 
-This afternoon we are debating the provision by way of grants of an amount of $430,333,000 to the States, representing a component of about onethird of the total Loan Council program for State loan purposes, for capital expenditure. One perhaps could be excused for not believing that this was really the subject under discussion after listening to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and a little earlier to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Nevertheless, the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill is a very important one. As far as this Government is concerned, it is a Bill that carries through from a very important decision made in 1970 whereby the States would be relieved of some of the high cost of financing their works programs. The method of providing that relief was to take responsibility for the actual provision by way of grant of certain funds to compensate the States in respect of what otherwise would require expensive loan finance to perform works and services. I believe this is significant. 
If one thinks back to 1970, the real crisis for the States at that time was the enormous interest bill, the enormous debt sinking fund requirement, and the disproportionate situation between the States and the Commonwealth Government in relation to the Commonwealth's part in the annual expenditure of funds. Therefore the government of the day, a LiberalCountry Party Government, had the wisdom to see the justification of reducing the burden of loan debt around the necks of each of the States in the Commonwealth. As a consequence of that decision there were set in motion the circumstances in which annually the Commonwealth now provides a very substantial proportion of the funds for the capital purposes of the States by way of straight out grant with no repayment, no interest charge, and in a manner that gives the States a distinct advantage, one that they did not enjoy before. 
We listened to the criticism by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. We heard the honourable member say that we were heading on some course that would put the clock back, that it would undo the Labor Administration's philosophy of providing that everyone be equal. I hope it does. That philosophy was very quickly heading this nation into disaster. But, of course, they were pretty hollow words from the honourable member for Port Adelaide. It will be recalled that this measure did not pass through the Parliament before 1 1 November last year. It is before this House again because it did not pass. If we look at the second reading speech of the Labor Treasurer, we find that he indicated very clearly that in respect of South Australia and Tasmania the amount was reduced substantially because the Commonwealth had taken over the railways in those 2 States. 
One must recognise that there is a limit to the availability of funds. This the previous Government did not seem to recognise. However, it recognised it in this respect and actually stated that a reduction was made. Therefore the honourable member for Port Adelaide cannot have it both ways. I believe the importance of this Bill is to be seen in the fact that it keeps faith with a definite policy of helping to sustain the States' finances and doing so in a manner that does not impose stringent terms and conditions. These grants, in the main, are available for capital works on projects such as schools, police buildings and the like for which no debt charges are normally recovered- in other words, there is no income returnable from them- and the States are free to make detailed determinations of these expenditures. This is right and proper. 
The honourable member for Corio alluded to what he called a policy applying to this side of the political arena to provide funds on a basis where there was some contribution from the States and perhaps some from local authorities and said that this was restrictive and bad. This does not apply to this Bill now before the House, but as the matter has been raised it becomes part of this debate. The honourable member referred to fairy tales, but he ought to have a close look at the import of what he said. He referred to the fact that funds could not be taken up on a policy of some partial contribution to a worthy cause such as homes for the aged. He ought to look at the statement by the former Minister for Social Security in another place,  Senator Wheeldon,  made in August last, when the then Government announced that there would be no more funds this financial year for homes for the aged. Never mind about matching funds or a proportion of funds, never mind about anything of that kind; this was a straight out cut off of funds. So the Budget under which we still operate provides no money for new projects such as homes for the aged, hostel accommodation and the like. The honourable member for Corio ought to think about that before he talks in an airy fairy manner in this place on aspects of State and Federal financing. 
The honourable member for Corio went on to tell us that he thought States were irresponsible. I hope the Victorians who happen to be listening to this debate and for whom a State election is looming will not forget his words. If he believes that the present Victorian Government is irresponsible he ought to look at the record of his Party's Government in this place in the last two or three years in respect of matters of this kind. He ought to be honest and admit that it completely messed up matters such as homes for the aged and finance for so many other purposes, that it did so to the point that it had overspent in so many directions that it had to impose a sharp cut on what might be described as essentials. 
I want to labour this one aspect of homes for the aged. In the 20 years odd that we were in office there was never an occasion when an organisation which had submitted an application for a grant, in compliance with the normal conditions in respect of the type of building, its location and the like, and which had its own share of the funds, was not assured that it could get funds to go ahead with that project. Today in Australia there is not one new project because the previous Government terminated such things. Yet we hear criticism of the estimating and so on of State governments. The real truth of the matter is that a lot of justifiable criticism can be levelled at the previous Government. We should not allow this escape, that someone else is at fault, when the truth is to be seen by only very cursory examination. 
There is another important consideration to be raised. Reference was made to the fact that for the first time the previous government had provided untied grants for local government. Let us consider for a moment the present financial plight of local government. Has it ever been worse? To what extent did the so-called untied grants help local government or relieve the great burden of ratepayers? Not in the slightest. They were just camouflage. No local government interest would thank me for criticising the grants and I certainly am not doing so; they were very welcome to every local government body that received them. But to say that they solved the problem and were the panacea or solution is a pipedream. I believe that the policy that we put forward, along the line of this legislation in terms of the provision of finance, is progressive and will effectively solve the problems that confront local government and State governments. This certainly cannot be "done by policies and philosophies associated with everyone being equal and that if we do not achieve this we do not achieve the objective for the people of this country. We know that that is a socialist catch cry. We have a duty to those who sent us here with a huge majority, to bring that sort of attitude to an end so far as planning and financial allocations are concerned and to see that things are done on a practical and constructive basis. We have been sent here to see that there is not a repetition of the messy administration experienced in the last two or three years. 
I do not propose to go into the details that this legislation sets out, such as what each State is to receive and for what purposes. The truth is that this Bill is one of the fundamentals of the approaches taken in 1970 to give the States a fair go. This is merely a starting point. There will be legislation. There will be other debates in this place which will deal with the more current aspect of this important matter. 
One point that is to some extent overlooked is that when States carry out capital works and provide a public facility with funds that come from a source such as this some recognition would not be inappropriate. Because of the political hotchpotch, because of the kind of things that have been said today by members of the Opposition front bench, the States tend to take an attitude that any money which is provided under legislation of this kind is only their right. Even to mention subsequently that the funds came from a progressive partnership, from a progressive Commonwealth arrangement, is perhaps giving in a little to the master in Canberra. I think if there were within the States a readiness to recognise the importance of legislation of this kind there would be a better understanding on the part of State and local authorities and on the part of the community at large. I sincerely emphasise that point because I think it has been for too long a matter of the issues being clouded by arguments not based on fact and by emotional arguments. In the process the nitty-gritty has been overlooked to the disadvantage of all concerned. I hope members of the Opposition will think about this and that their utterances will tend to be more factual than hypothetical in future debates on matters of this kind. 
This subject concerns the interests of every Australian. It was the aspiration of this country many years ago to have a motor vehicle manufacturing industry. The early post-war years saw many arguments as to how this could be achieved. This aspiration came to fruition when the decision was made, first of all, for the production of the Holden. The then Prime Minister of Australia, Ben Chifley, forecast a great future for a motor industry in this country. In the event, however, we have experienced the symptoms of many difficulties in industrial relations, changes in technology and, in more recent times, the tremendous impact of inflation on the production of motor vehicles. 
Over the years there has been a spate of propositions and plans. The previous Government was faced with a real problem in the industry after it lifted import restrictions and there was a flow of imported vehicles into this country. It then saw the need to curtail the importations and a decision was made- I think it was in October 1975- to restrict imports to some extent, and a plan was produced. This created circumstances which the present Government inherited. I suppose that those circumstances could properly be described as unavoidable because of the historic background. So tonight we debate a statement which sets out what I believe is the only practical way of dealing with the problem at this stage. The first requirement is very positive consideration of whether in the foreseeable future we will have partly produced in this country what might properly be described as a family car, the cost of which will be kept within the reach of the average Australian. I believe that this possibility is almost slipping out of reality because of the imported content, the effect of technology, and in particular the imbalance in the cost factors that play such an important part in the economics of all of this. 
I believe that previous speakers, in particular the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  made excellent contributions which covered the factual aspects of the difficulties which this industry now encounters. The honourable member for Hawker, of course, put up a case for South Australia. I suppose we cannot blame him for that, but I want to emphasise the broader view expressed by the honourable member for Balaclava. We must look at the whole problem in a total Australian context, because unless we do we will force upon the industry a sectional situation which we will not be able to sustain economically. The ministerial statement sets out very clearly the considerations of the Industries Assistance Commission and the facts relating to the circumstances with which we are faced. 
The importance of the industry as an employer of labour and capital and the desire of the consumer to have access to reasonably priced cars are 2 cardinal factors which must be very important considerations, but then immediately we come to the technological considerations and the fact that there is a swing in demand towards the smaller 4-cylinder vehicles. This is understandable because of the incredible cost increase that has occurred. In the last 2 years the Prices Justification Tribunal, set up by the previous Government, because it could not do anything else time after time rubber stamped increases in the prices of motor vehicles- increases which were the result of all the ingredients- the material, the labour and all the rest- that constitute the production of a motor vehicle. Yet when we look at the considerations on the manufacturing side- the plant capacity which has been overdone in so many ways, the difficulties in respect of components, and so on- then of course it is obviously timely for the recommendations in this statement to be given positive consideration. 
I believe from the consensus we find that this Parliament is correct tonight in recognising the new percentages that have been proposed- what I suppose can best be described as the 85 per cent component plan-and the aspiration that there be a reduction in the scope of plant capacity, which will be concentrated in the interests of more effective and less costly production. There has been no real argument about restructuring. I suppose it is unique that restructuring and rationalisation find common ground in the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party and the philosophy of the free enterprise parties which I naturally espouse. We must not look at this matter in the short term. Although this report refers to certain time scales, it must be recognised that rapid changes can and will occur. 
There is the question of the displacement of labour. When that question arises there could be grounds for considering some of the elements in the production of motor vehicles or in the production of motor vehicle components. There could be some changes even in respect of those things envisaged in the statement to the House by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  Notwithstanding that, the basic principle enunciated must undoubtedly be adhered to. The decision of the industry in relation to the production of 4-cylinder engines or in relation to the setting up of the engine plant will determine the considerations on a sectional basis, the realities for South Australia and for Victoria. From a national point of view, once that has been settled, it is hoped that the industry as a whole will see the need for cohesion and for an avoidance of further fragmentation Where possible, the desirable result or consequences of this single plant approach could be that components to a large extent might become more interchangeable. 
Any ordinary citizen who shoulders the responsibility for his family of maintaining a motor vehicle- in these days life is impossible without one- has constantly in mind the capital outlay, the depreciation and the maintenance of that vehicle. If one goes to a motor garage one's first thought is: What will the bill be? These days, because of component costs and so on, it can be extraordinarily high. We must do what we can to avoid any accentuation of this. Costs are the enemy of the policies which we believe are essential if we are to arrest inflation in this country. This can be accomplished only if propositions of the sort advanced in this statement are taken seriously and are applied generally, firstly in production and then in respect of the effect and the utilisation of that production. That applies particularly to the motor industry. There is a lot of criticism from time to time of propositions for other industries to rationalise to try to jump the hurdle of ever increasing costs. It is very pleasing that that kind of destructive criticism has not emerged in this debate. I believe it is to the credit of those who have applied themselves so assiduously to this matter that they have made contributions such as we have heard tonight. 
I make one final observation, and it is this: Our country of 13 million people must strive to preserve to the maximum extent the production in this country not only of motor vehicles but of whatever else our work force and our technology are capable of producing. But we cannot be foolish. Therefore a plan of this kind means the growing of a partnership between what we can do internally and what we must depend upon our trading partners to do together with our own enterprises. This is the only way we can maintain an effective economy that takes into account our internal production, our trading relationships and our overall need to be part of the technological age which is upon us. In a spirit of recognition of these things, I believe the motor industry can be sustained. If we were foolish to the point of saying that we would not agree to this kind of proposition we would get the worst of both worlds. We would find our capacity unattainable, and we would be less able to have a trading arrangement to bring in components and to bring in a certain amount of the content for the trade in this industry. So I commend this statement as a practical one and as the only solution to the problem which the industry faces at present. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the extreme difficulties facing export industries as a consequence of cost escalations and ask: Is the Government concerned about the ability of our export industries to remain competitive or. world markets if inflation is not brought down to more reasonable levels? What action does the Government propose in its overall economic strategy to assist exporters? 
I commend the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  for the introduction of these amendments. I support them strongly. I am sure that it was never the intention of the Government to proceed in the way that the original draft proposed. The technicalities of that became obvious when the Bill was presented in the House and many country television stations quickly became aware and very concerned about what the effect of the original draft may have been. I am sure that the Committee appreciates the Minister's consideration of submissions that were made to him following the initial introduction of the legislation. In particular there is a great appreciation of the care that was taken both by the Board and the Minister in looking into this problem. The Minister informed the Committee a few moments ago of his clear intention. The amendment, of course, overcomes this problem. It would have been most unfortunate if the technical provisions had permitted metropolitan stations to encroach upon areas normally served by country stations. 
Country stations have a very great task in maintaining viability, in meeting escalating costs and in fulfilling their license responsibilities in terms of presenting programs which are of a satisfactory standard, and one might say, quite correctly, a high standard because there is a tendency for country stations to present programs of the highest standard. It would have been unfortunate if there had been transgression which may have interfered with this capacity, but of greater concern was the risk that translators placed in difficult areas for transmission purposes, still to maintain community of interest and the area of service of a country station, may have been put in jeopardy. This would have been unfortunate. I commend the Minister and thank him for the particular attention given to this matter. I trust that the Committee and another place will fully support the amendments now before us. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the disruption of air traffic throughout Australia over the past 3 days. Has the extreme and quite ridiculous action taken by air traffic controllers caused this disruption? What steps has the Government taken and what further steps will it take in this important matter? 
-I ask the Minister for National Resources a question relating to water resources. I refer to the flood mitigation works in progress on 9 coastal rivers in New South Wales which have in the past been financially assisted by a joint Commonwealth-State arrangement. Has the Minister seen a statement made by the New South Wales Minister for Public Works claiming that the New South Wales Government has not had any decision from the Federal Government about financial assistance during the next 5 years and that the State is now carrying the financial burden of flood mitigation works, although it has now pushed a greater proportion of the financial burden on to local government? Has the Federal Government received any official request from the New South Wales Government in this matter? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and refer to the problem of illegal entry into Australia by persons who have not obtained proper entry visas. Has there been abuse of transit facilities by travellers landing in Australia ostensibly on their way to a destination in another country? Has hardship resulted to persons who have been misled by travel agents and others perpetrating rackets both overseas and in Australia? Further, have there been difficulties resulting from persons over-staying and working on visitors visas, despite visitor status which expressly prohibits accepting work in this country? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Construction and refers to claims by sections of the building industry and the timber industry in New South Wales that building in that State is lagging. Has the allocation of funds for housing and other sections of the construction industry resulted in a short-fall in New South Wales? What is the present outlook for housing and general construction in the capital works sector in New South Wales? 
-In the absence of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keeffe)  in whose electorate these works are located, I would like on his behalf to refer to their importance and to acknowledge the action of the Government in making available this non-repayable grant. The area is an important agricultural region and the management of water is of vital importance to the farmers, the general community and, indirectly, to the nation. The river system lends itself admirably to this kind of developmental work and this project will have the effect of preserving the catchment of local water; it will assist in flood mitigation and it will mean that every drop of this vital water is conserved instead of being allowed to run away down the river systems in that part of New South Wales. Irrigation of sorghum, wheat, cotton and vineyards will be of significance. The action taken by New South Wales with the financial support of the Commonwealth envisages the kind of developmental works that undoubtedly are important to the immediate and long term future of" this part of northern New South Wales. The honourable member for Paterson has always been a very strong advocate of works of this kind. He has a very close knowledge of the industries that will benefit from the works and I know that, his constituents will greatly appreciate what is being done. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  referred to the general support for this kind of development work in Australia by both sides of the House. I remind him that following the disastrous floods in 1974 and 1975 in Queensland, New South Wales and in the southern regions of the continent, many promises were made of extensive works that might be undertaken in the future. There then followed a directive that national water resources be reviewed. That review no doubt has taken place but in the interim the economic situation has somewhat affected the prospects for general expenditure of this kind. However, it is nevertheless important that continuing assessments be made, that cost benefit studies be continued and that the important long range considerations of water conservation be not overlooked. For that reason I strongly support what has been said. I commend the Bill and express the hope that this project will be the forerunner of further projects of this kind in various parts of Australia which as a consequence of the productivity which flows from them will add to our national prosperity. 
The countryside is of importance in this day and age. To an extent perhaps too often we overlook these aspects, but on this occasion there is an opportunity to make a specific reference to them. The demands that come from the more closely settled parts of Australia are great indeed but, notwithstanding them, we must continue to see that this continent is managed in an effective manner, that all the aspects of development throughout the length and breadth of it are taken into account and that, in particular, conservation is given a fair share of the expenditure of national funds. For that reason also this measure is of great importance. It is noted that an environmental study into the impact of agricultural chemical use in irrigation and that sort of thing will be required and that this will be subject to approval by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony).  This also is of great importance. It is with pleasure that I support the Bill now before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the devaluation of the Australian dollar and the valuable benefits accruing to depressed primary industries throughout the country. I ask the Minister: Has he seen a media report which states: 
Devaluation should make Australian meat more competitive and easier to sell on overseas markets but there is no way that Australian exporters can increase prices. 
Is this assertion that prices cannot be increased totally inaccurate? What is the true position in relation to meat exports? 
-The Trade Practices Act, which was introduced by the Labor Government, is vague and uncertain. New legislation, however, must contain safeguards for small business, safeguards for vital capital investment and safeguards against the possible extension of Government monopoly. For example, I believe that it is time the monopoly of one bank- the Commonwealth Bank- in post offices and schools through exclusive savings account agencies was ended. There are many other such cases. The amending legislation is a first step in a determined effort by the present Government to restructure the existing legislation which was introduced by the Labor Government and which, as I said, is vague and uncertain. In a number of aspects it is too restrictive, not appropriate to the Australian market place, and really unsatisfactory. It has resulted in a great deal of unwarranted time and expense by business. It has impeded the investment of new capital and therefore, in part, the recovery of the economy during the past year. 
The proposed amendments should be commended as a means of removing or lessening some of the detrimental aspects of the legislation. There has been general acceptance of and support for the current proposals. Since the amending legislation was first tabled, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  as he indicated earlier, has received a number of submissions recommending further desirable amendments. The proposed procedures are commendable. As indicated by the Minister, the Bill will be re-introduced with sections redrafted to take into account many of the suggestions that have been made. I believe that this is a complete answer to the doubts expressed by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
I wish to debate a number of matters which I believe are important in considering the amending Bill. I deal firstly with exclusive dealing and normal requirements contracts. The amending Bill adheres to the suggestion of the Swanson Committee in providing that from section 47 sub-section (2) of the Act the following words be deleted:  . . . or subject to a contract arrangement or understanding. 
In the words of the Swanson Committee, this recommendation was designed 'to word the application of the sub-section to an ordinary commercial requirements contract'. But I believe that the omission of the words will not achieve the effect intended. If normal commercial requirements contracts are to be excluded, it is logical that to put the issue beyond doubt a specific exclusion should be included in the section. For example, a new sub-section to section 47 may read as follows: 
Sub-section (2) does not apply with respect to normal requirements contracts between a seller and a buyer whereby the buyer undertakes to buy all or a substantial part of his requirements for a particular commodity from the seller. 
Secondly, capital intensive industries are of crucial importance. Australian manufacturers in capital intensive industries have submitted that they should have the ability, without fear of interference from the Trade Practices Commission, to make long term or continuing loyalty arrangements with their customers so that the viability of large scale investment will not be inhibited. Unless such arrangements are permitted under the amending Act there will remain a standing discouragement to major new investments which Australia so badly needs. I suggest that the appropriate amendment could be implemented best by way of the inclusion of a further exception in section 5 1 of the Act. This could be done by the addition of a new subsection, possibly sub-section (4). I have no doubt that in the Committee stages of the debate on this Bill and, of course, in the redrafting some appropriate wording in this regard will be considered. 
The supporting argument for this addition is that the Act should permit an Australian manufacturer in a capital intensive industry to make such loyalty arrangements with its customers as are reasonably required to assure the viability of the manufacturer. To this end the manufacturer and its customer should be permitted to make long term or continuing arrangements, freely negotiated between the parties, which will permit the manufacturer to reward a customer who commits himself to buy from the manufacturer a substantial proportion or quantity of the customer's requirements and/or commits himself to buying Australian made goods. I am sure the honourable member for Port Adelaide would have a particular interest in that. Further, the manufacturer and its customer should be permitted to make long term or continuing agreements which will assure for the customers a sustained and reliable source of supply at reasonable prices and to minimise the damage of spasmodic surges of imports which are usual in capital intensive industries. Capital intensive industries are those which relative to sales turnover have high capital investment in manufacturing assets or have a high capital servicing charge for depreciation, interest and the like relative to labour costs, or which have scale factors- economies of scale. 
To be profitable a capital intensive industry must operate at a level near to full capacity, which is one reason why loyalty arrangements with customers are vitally essential and, incidentally, why selling at marginal costs on export markets is a usual practice world wide. In the small Australian market the economic size of a manufacturer's plant or an increment in capacity needs to be relatively larger  vis-a-vis  the markets than their counterparts in competitive countries, such as the United States of America or countries in Europe. Economic size is dependent upon scale factor, which causes capital costs and operating costs per unit of output to fall as plant capacity increases. To compete in a world market Australian manufacturers must install units of plant that are as large as feasible in relatively small Australian market circumstances. Thus, often in Australia there is room for only one or very few companies to make the same product if the industry is to be economic, whereas in Europe and in the United States there could be, say, five or ten different companies in the same industry because the total market is so much greater. We have seen this in the dilemma of the motor industry. 
Where scale factor applies, for example, in the manufacture of chemicals, paper, steel or petroleum, the minimum plant or plant increment can involve capital expenditures ranging from, say, $40m to $200m or more. To justify an expenditure of this magnitude it is necessary, or often vital, for the manufacturer to have reasonable security in the home market, which in turn provides a base on which to develop exports. To this end a manufacturer should be able to reward by way of preferential pricing contracts or otherwise, those customers which give continuing preference to the Australian manufacturer. This can be done by offering price discounts for a substantial proportion or quantity of the consumers' requirements. Such an arrangement is mutually beneficial in that it provides the manufacturer with the base load essential for efficient and economic operation and provides the customers with a secure source of local supply at a more consistent price. 
Australian companies in capital intensive industries will refrain or hesitate from making large investments unless they are able to make with customers supply arrangements which will give a reasonable assurance of a continuing base ad demand. Similarly, major investments in some service industries will be prejudiced unless there is reasonable expectation of a sufficient and continuing base load demand. Service industries in this category include transport and handling operations which require special vehicles or large loading devices. We know the dilemma of the transport industry in respect of cost factors at the present time. The type of supply arrangements I refer to are preferable in Australia to the alternatives of vertical integration, which is practised in large markets such as the United States of America or Europe, or quantity discounts designed to tie the bigger users to the supplier as these discounts usually go beyond those justifiable by cost savings. 
These alternatives are disadvantageous to small businesses in that they favour big users to the detriment of small ones and impede the entry of small new businesses. The honourable member for Port Adelaide made some reference to this but I am not too sure that he really understood what he put to the House. The Act should be amended so that companies are permitted to enter into mutually acceptable long-term or continuing supply arrangements with their customers which reward such customers for loyalty and for consistency of purchase from Australian sources. 
The third matter, the 'benefit to the public' criteria, should be taken into account- and of course has been taken into account- by the Trade Practices Commission when determining what is a benefit to the public in relation to proposed sub-sections 90 (6) and 90 (7) of the amending legislation. Matters such as this are not qualified in any way and are solely at the discretion of the Commission. The setting of criteria which the Commission is required to take into account would result in decisions by the Commission being more objective and consistent and less haphazard. The criteria should be broad and not necessarily exhaustive and should not limit in any way the generality of the expression 'benefit to the public'. These criteria should be similar to those which were previously in section 50 of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and could be inserted as a new sub-section if the Government reviews this aspect. I have no doubt that it will be looking closely at it. This would ensure that important aspects to be considered could not be overlooked or ignored by the Commission. The addition of a new sub-section to section 90 could solve this problem. 
Let me deal with some of the aspects of such a new sub-section. Such a new sub-section could make provisions in respect of: 
the needs and interests of consumers, employees, producers, distributors, importers, exporters, proprietors and investors; 
the needs and interests of small businesses; 
the promotion of new enterprises; 
the need to achieve the full and efficient use and distribution of labour, capital, materials, industrial capacity, industrial know-how and other resources; 
the need to increase production efficiency in Australian industries; 
the need to achieve the production, provision, treatment and distribution, by efficient and economical means, of goods and services of such quality, quantity and price as will best meet the requirements of domestic and available overseas markets; 
the ability of Australian producers and exporters to compete in overseas markets; 
the likely effect of such contract, arrangement or understanding or proposed contract, arrangement or undertaking, as the case may be, on the efficiency that the applicant corporation will achieve or is likely to achieve in desirable economies of scale; 
At present that is a very vital matter. 
the likely effect of such contract or acquisition, as the case may be, on the price at which the applicant corporation will be in a position to supply goods or services to the relevant market; 
the effect of imports and overseas competitors on the efficiency of Australian manufacturers and on the markets; and 
Government policy in relation to the industry in which the applicant corporation is engaged. 
Of course there are many other vital sections. I refer to the international intergovernment agreements. They need a great deal of scrutiny.  1  am sure that the Government intends to do that before the Bill is re-introduced. 
The fifth matter concerns conference with and assistance by the Commission. This leads to some very doubtful considerations, if one studies the present provisions, inasmuch as there is not an adequate opportunity for the persons negotiating with the Commission to put constructive details or to answer to the Commission. In other words, it is a little too much one way under the present provisions. It is a matter of how this can be opened up without turning it into something akin to the over-done approach we find in other areas. I am referring of course to the Industries Assistance Commission and the off-shoots of other instrumentalities. 
-Well, I think the matter involves what is practical, what can be done to best serve the objectives of enterprise in this country, the prudent use of capital, the efficient use of labour and, in particular, an effective result in the interests of the consumer. That is what the Government is dealing with and what it expressly proposes to do. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide has said that he is a little disappointed to see some trend towards a better opportunity for free enterprise to operate in a free enterprise area. I think that he is inclined to make references that deal fairly specifically with the control mechanisms that are in the philosophy of his Party. These control mechanisms can undoubtedly lead to all sorts of difficulties for industry and the more so in this sophisticated day and age when there is not the freedom of movement on the economic front that there might have been a few years ago. I have had raised with me other aspects relating to the effect of the proposals in clause 49. 1 have not had an opportunity of looking closely at this matter but from what has been put to me it appears that it tends to do the very reverse perhaps to what was intended. The cost to the consumer can be forced Up because of the requirements that are discovered as a consequence of the effects of clause 49. 1 hope that the matter will be looked at very carefully indeed. 
This is a most important measure. There is no question of the Government's  bona fides.  The Government has introduced the Bill and allowed it to lay on the table for a number of months. It now gives this opportunity for a lengthy debate. The Parliament will be prorogued. The Bill will later be re-introduced. There has been scarcely a precedent for a situation where such careful and detailed thought can be given to legislation. Yet it was suggested by the honourable member for Port Adelaide that the legislation was not receiving the kind of treatment that perhaps it should. The Government has said clearly that it accepts the recommendations of the review committee that price discrimination and other matters need to be given a proper scrutiny. To do that, we need to provide the mechanism. In fact the review committee stated that the previous law had unsatisfactory provisions. I do not know what the Opposition's proposals are. It certainly has not advanced any thus far in this debate. Some passing references were made. So far nothing substantial has been mooted. Later speakers may make some proposals. I am sure that the redrafted Bill will take into account matters that are mentioned in this debate and matters that have been submitted to the Government from all sections of industry and from all those who are vitally concerned with this measure. Undoubtedly there will be further consideration of the legislation. I have no doubt that in the Committee stage there will be an opportunity for some of the details that can be touched upon only in this debate to be examined further and for effective deliberation to be made upon them. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government given further consideration to a restructuring of the meat marketing procedures in the light of disabilities which currently exist to the disadvantage of cattle producers? Have differing ideas and suggestions delayed the implementation of the Minister's intention to reconstitute the Australian Meat Board, which he announced last year? Will the Minister now take urgent action to implement reconstitution of the Meat Board and the restructuring of marketing for the benefit of all sections of the beef production, processing and marketing industries, as well as the national economy? 
Trade practices legislation is bound to be complex. The previous Australian Labor Party Government introduced legislation which was vague and uncertain yet the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who has just spoken at such length, asserted that this Government's action has shown some kind of confusion. I suggest to the honourable member that he has failed to apply himself to the actions of the Government since December last year when the amendments were first introduced. This gave time, until the resumption of the House in February, for consideration of the proposals. Then, a long period was allowed for further consideration, a lengthy debate took place in this House and revised legislation was introduced. 
The honourable member asks about the Government amendments. They were proposed. It was well known to the Opposition that considerable time would be allowed for debate in Committee. That is the usual method used to deal with the intricate wording of legislation of this kind. If the 2 honourable members on the front bench of the Opposition have not been here long enough to be experienced in that regard, then it is time that they found out how it is done. We have listened to the honourable member for Gellibrand applying himself entirely to one clause of the legislation in the time allotted to him. He has just concluded. I shall refer to some other clauses of the Bill. Perhaps I shall come back to some of the references made by the honourable member. The new amendments before us take into account the considerations put forward over this long time. They remove the penalty of imprisonment for consumer protection offences and lift the potential penal liability for substantially similar contraventions. Offsetting this provision, however, there are increases to the ambit of the consumer protection provisions. This is one of the important considerations over which the honourable member for Gellibrand just skimmed. 
At present an offender would avoid prosecution for breaches of the consumer protection provisions if the contravention were due to a mistake, reliance on information supplied by another person, the act or default of another person, an accident or some other cause beyond his control, or if a person took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to avoid the contravention. Under the proposed amendments a person would avoid prosecution if the contravention were due to a reasonable mistake, reasonable reliance on information supplied by another person, the act or default of another person, an accident, or some other cause beyond his control and in which case he took reasonable precautions to exercise due diligence and avoid the contravention. All these are important actions which must be considered when the legislation is before the House. The new defence provision is essentially in line with that recommended by the Trade Practices Review Committee which is more clearly known as the Swanson Committee. 
The Committee was of the view that the provision currently operates unduly harshly. It suggested that changes to the provisions would involve a major change to the law in relation to this matter. Let us go back and remember who put that provision in the law in the early stages. Of course, it was the previous Government. It has had to admit quite clearly that many of its provisions in the legislation during its term in office were ineffective, one-sided and quite unsatisfactory. The proposed increases in the ambit of the Act's consumer protection provisions are important. 
I shall refer to 10 specific matters. Firstly, the extension of the present provision prohibiting misleading or deceptive conduct- that is section 52 of the Act- to conduct which is likely to be misleading or deceptive. The second matter relates to the extension of the present provision covering false recommendations- this is section 53- to misrepresentation or false or misleading statements concerning the composition, history or previous use of goods, the price of goods or services and the existence, exclusion or effect of rights or remedies of consumers. The third matter to which I refer is the extension of the present provision prohibiting certain free offers- this is section 54- to offers of gifts or prizes where there is no intention of providing them. Again, we must recall that a lot of this was the product of a situation where there was an Act which did not really produce an effective coverage of these kinds of very important aspects of the legislation which ought to exist on the statute book. 
The fourth matter relates to the extension of the bait advertising provision- section 56- and it provides that, subject to certain defences, where goods or services are advertised at a special price, they should be offered for supply for a reasonable period and in reasonable quantities. We all know how important that is in terms of the present economic climate. The fifth matter is the introduction of a new provision prohibiting conduct liable to mislead the public as to the nature, characteristics, and suitability for the purpose or quality of services. Likewise, that is an important consideration. The sixth matter is the extension of the present provision prohibiting certain misleading statements about homeoperated businesses. This comes under section 59. 
The seventh matter is an amendment to the provision covering product safety standardssection 62- to give the Minister power to prohibit for up to 18 months the supply of unsafe goods. The eighth matter relates to the introduction of a new provision prohibiting demands for payment in relation to unsolicited services. The ninth matter deals with the removal of provisions which now exempt supplies of goods by competitive tender from certain conditions and warranties. The tenth matter is the introduction of a new provision giving consumers the right to terminate contracts for breach of any of the implied conditions set up by the Act. 
These amendments are in line with the recommendations of the Swanson Committee which considered that the Act's consumer protection provisions needed some strengthening and extension. The Committee stage will enable debate on a wide range of other sections and clauses. Details of the latest consideration of the various sections and clauses have been circulated. The Government has made it possible, through this debate, for a full consideration of these matters to take place in Committee. 
The various interests covered by this legislation have their views. We have just heard the spokesman for the union movement in this country. We have heard exclusively from the Opposition its views on a single aspect, important and all as it is. Despite many of the provisions to which I have referred and others to which other speakers will refer in Committee, nevertheless there is concern on the part of other sections of the community to the effect that they would like some further changes. Obviously, this cannot all be done at once. Bodies such as Australian Industries Development Association and the Commercial Law Association have expressed views. They take the point that unnecessary, onerous and costly restraints on business are not removed. Of course, if we are to have legal machinery in a circumstance of the kind which this Act provides, there cannot be an easy process on either side, whether it is business large or small, the trade union movement or whether it is single or multiple consumers. All of them have a part in terms of the need for their interests to be considered, and it is not an easy course. For that reason I said at the outset that all of this is bound to be complex. The same people to whom I have referred take the view that competition is still equated with public benefit, which they regard as being a little too theoretical. They say that size is still a major concern rather than abuse of size, and special reference is made here to mergers. Again, price discrimination under section 49, which has been retained by the legislation before us, and perhaps there will be some further reference to it, is still contrary to the recommendation of the Swanson Committee. The Government has taken that determination, and for sound reasons, but that does not mean that at some later stage there cannot be further amend-, ments to the legislation. 
The people to whom I have referred go on to refer to amendments which mean that normal commercial requirement contracts are subject to section 45 and/or section 47. The Swanson Committee recommended removal of the unnecessary, inhibiting provisions which are applied under section 47, but those people feel that the drafting does not remove that difficulty. Of course, none of us wants a situation where the free flow of business is too greatly inhibited. On the other hand, there have to be restraints, guidelines, and all the rest of it, if we are to have an effective piece of legislation for protection purposes, but bearing in mind that that protection must be fairly even-handed and must take into account the respective interests of the total community to which I referred earlier. 
It is claimed that no criteria are specified for determining public benefit. Of course, that is a very difficult thing to establish, and I think it is a question of the experience that is gained in terms of the application of the Act once it is on the statute book. We are certainly well aware of what the previous Labor Act did, and I am sure that those who might be concerned about the matters to which I have referred would have to think back only to what the previous Act could have done, and in many respects began to do, to business and commerce in this country. It is further said that no provision has been made for discussions between businessmen and the Commission to be effective and meaningful. I am sure that that is a matter which can be given further consideration. It is believed that the onus is still on the applicant business to prove public benefit rather than on the Commission to prove detriment. Those matters were covered in the earlier debate in the previous session. Finally, the tests for authorisation still seem to remain a little uncertain, but I know that the Minister will make some reference to a number of these matters at the Committee stage, when he is afforded an opportunity to speak to the House on these issues. 
Further, I mentioned that the Opposition's main spokesman directed his attention exclusively to proposed section 45D and said that it provided severe implications for trade unions. He did not say anything about the severe implications of the legislation that his Party earlier put on the statute book as far as other sections of the community are concerned. He said that the provisions of this new section dealt with actions not directly related to the precise import, as he put it, of the section. He relied heavily on the reference to actions by unions which interpretation of the new legislation would mean were disruptive and could be dealt with under the various subsections of section 45D on the basis of past record being directly related to union efforts for industrial gain. What a joke it is for the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations in this country to say that the record shows that industrial action has been related only to endeavours for industrial gain. Of course it has been, and the unions have not cared how they have gone about it. They have not cared who they have inconvenienced. They have not cared about losses to industry and commerce. They have not cared 2 hoots about loss to the individual, and proposed section 45D is designed specifically to ensure that there is responsibility on the part of the trade union movement in these matters. 
Despite the crocodile tears of the honourable member for Gellibrand, who said that the legislation would have a drastic effect on the trade unions and that as a result of the actions of the Government there was not proper provision for adequate consultation with the unions about the legislation, he must admit on the facts that proposed section 45D provides a very evenhanded approach to this important and crucial aspect of trade practices in this country. The present Trade Practices Act exempts among other matters, any act done by employees or by an organisation of employees unless it is an act done in the course of carrying on of a business of the employer or those employees or of a business of that organisation. Time does not permit me to go through all the sections which flow on from section 5 1 in relation to coverage of that part of the Act. Suffice to say that what is provided in proposed section 45D ensures that in no way is the association or properly organised union of employees hindered. The proposed section does not hinder disputes solely between employees and their employer. Individuals are not liable to any penalties or damages unless they are acting in defiance of their union. Boycotts by companies and by unions are treated equally, except that individuals involved in union disputes have protection against penalties and, in most cases, against civil damage. 
The amending Bill not only extends the Act in a limited area to union activity but also extends the provisions of the Act to the commercial activities of the Government itself. Those are part only of the sections to which the honourable member for Gellibrand very conveniently avoided referring. We have to recognise that the penalties provided are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. They are penalties which ensure that if a restrictive action is brought about as a consequence of activities that are designed deliberately to bring about disruption and loss, then the Act provides for a proper approach in this direction. I commend the legislation and say that the Committee debate will ensure proper coverage of the various clauses. I hope that the Opposition will adopt a more responsible approach in the whole matter. 
-I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to yesterday's announcement by the New Zealand Government that it had decided to declare a 200-mile territorial off-shore zone. I ask: Will the Australian Government now take similar action to protect Australia's interests in the 200-mile zone surrounding the Australian continent, for reasons that have been canvassed so clearly during the past 2 years both in this Parliament and in other forums, including the United Nations Law of the Sea Conference? 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. I refer to the recent increase in activity in Australia of members of the KGB, with particular reference to the defection in Melbourne of KGB agent Cheshev Is it a fact that Canberra based KGB officials  Mr Raina  and  Mr Voskresensky  flew to Melbourne carrying firearms and met with  Mr Cheshev  in an attempt to dissuade his defection? Is it a fact that  Mr Raina,  First Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Canberra, is one of 105 KGB officials who were expelled from London in 1971? Further, why has he been permitted to enter Australia and to engage in activities similar to those found to be a security risk in England? Will the Government make an investigation and, if these activities are found to be detrimental to national security, will the Government deport any KGB agents considered a security risk? 
-Let me begin by congratulating the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on the Budget that he has brought down. As usual we have heard in the debate thus far, and will continue to hear during the course of the debate no doubt, a barrage against the Budget from the Opposition. No constructive Budget is ever popular. Yet, judged against the economic conditions which exist, this Budget is less restrictive than the nation expected. This afternoon we heard a couple of Budget speeches made during the course of the debate on a matter of public importance. The speeches conformed to Standing Orders but certainly the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  took the opportunity to deliver his speech on the Budget. It was so full of inaccuracies that one wonders how, as a front bench member of the Opposition and having occupied the office of Treasurer so recently, he can honestly espouse the kind of approach that he makes on the important matters to which he referred. 
Economic writers and Press tipsters painted a gloomy picture in the weeks leading up to the presentation of the Budget. I am sure that the Opposition is disappointed that the Budget has been so successful. It is resorting to making statements which are totally inaccurate, to giving misleading information to the House and generally to trying to deceive the public about the real import of the Budget. There is nothing else it can do. It can find no real way to oppose the principles and drive of the Budget. The Opposition sees the Budget as an opportunity to cash in on the nation's problems for political gain. Again it has been proved wrong. The Budget presented by the honourable member for Oxley changed the tax scales and drastically altered the provisions of the tax laws and in the process robbed members of the farming community of no less than $50m. He hit them below the belt at a time when they could not afford to be hit below the belt. But did he admit that this afternoon? Not at all. He will never admit that he is wrong. 
The Budget is less restrictive than the nation expected. It is all too easy for people to forget what happened and what was happening under the Labor Administration. We were heading then for complete economic disaster and the aftermath of Labor's irresponsible mismanagement is still with us to a very significant degree. The inflation and the unemployment flowing from that inflation and from bad Labor decisions remain with us as serious problems- problems which demand the strenuous efforts of this Government and everyone else if they are to be solved on a lasting basis. The sluggishness in industry remains as a hangover from the pounding that industry suffered under Labor. The rural sector continues to feel the effects of discriminatory Labor attacks which added to farmers' basic difficulties. Labor extravagances have made it harder for the present Government to redress the situation. 
Since this session began there have been contributions in this House by a number of honourable members who are very close to the rural scene and who understand the effects of the Budget and of the economic difficulties which the nation faces and which are a particular handicap for the rural producer. I refer particularly to the contribution made a few days ago by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige).  He outlined very clearly what Labor had done and the effect of its actions on rural industries. They had disastrous consequences. For me to repeat his comments again would be tedious and unnecessary because those effects are all too clear and all too well known. 
For the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the last couple of days to be stumping Queensland and pretending that he is now the saviour of primary industry, when he presided over the tragedy that happened to primary industry, is very shabby. We do not hear constructive proposals from the Opposition, but constructive proposals certainly are under consideration by this Government. Many people will ask why action has not been taken and why this or that has not been done. It is not a simple matter to take effective action. The honourable member for Oxley might remember that he changed the tax scales. He pretended that he was going to help those in the lower income bracket, but all he did was hurt them and hurt them badly. We will not take actions of that kind. We will see that the actions that are taken are effective. But beyond all these things, and far more fundamentally, a significant change occurred in some of our basic attitudes, standards, values, traditions and in the free enterprise system which has been the foundation of our growth and prosperity, particularly rural growth and prosperity. 
No one denies that a change for the better is good. But quite clearly, when change is not for the better there is real cause for concern. Change was occurring so rapidly under the Australian Labor Party Government that it was difficult for many people fully to comprehend the nature, speed and extent of that change. Whilst essential spending is being maintained by the present Government, a policy of firm restraint is being pursued. The handout mentality had to come to an end. There was no way that this situation could continue as it had for the three years under Labor. This year's estimated increase of about 10.5 per cent is the level that is required if we are to see a worthwhile improvement in growth. On the other hand, we have to ensure that we do not have the rapid inflationary growth of the kind which occurred from 1973 to 1975, reaching in excess of 23 per cent. Of course, this was the tragedy of the effect of the policies of the previous Government. 
A cut in spending has been necessary but within these constraints we have been able to meet the necessary increases. For example, expenditure on social welfare is up 12.7 per cent. There is full indexation of pensions and the benefits which flow from them. There has been a 33 per cent increase in special assistance for handicapped people, increased assistance for Aboriginals and increased provision for aged persons accommodation and for children's services. Yet we have heard the cry that the Government is cutting expenditure in so many fields. Notable in this cry has been the claim that there has been a drastic cut in education. Yet spending in this field is up 9.8 per cent. The provision might be modest as against what one could do in a buoyant economy. Nevertheless it is realistic and effective. It is getting the results which are required in the field of education at all levels. Let us not forget that student allowances were increased after being frozen by the previous Government. Health spending is up 10 per cent. Employment training programs are so vital in this period of difficulty with unemployment at such a high level and expenditure in this area is up 33 per cent to a total of no less than $ 102m. 
Assistance to the States which contribute so much in the administration of the services essential in welfare, education, health, employment and all the rest of it, has increased by 14 per cent. Under the special provisions of the new system of federalism which this Government has introduced we find local government getting an overall increase of 18 per cent in the present Budget. Should these increases be seriously attacked in the way in which they were attacked this afternoon? Of course they should not. We heard the honourable member for Oxley say that funds for roads had been cut. Then he went on to say that if the level of expenditure which had been in existence a few years ago had been carried through at some fictitious figure of real terms -as he calls it- then there would be more money for roads. But he seems to forget that overspending is the reason for the restraint necessary in this Budget. That overspending created a deficit of $4,000m in the national coffers. It is the responsibility and duty of this Government to reduce that deficit. That reduction is taking place. The Budget estimate for the deficit at the end of this financial year is down to $2,300m, if my memory serves me correctly. This is the contribution which is so necessary in order to fight inflation. Without it the cost factors will continue to plague the economic structure of this country. The monetary policy which we are following is absolutely essential. The reduction of the Budget deficit will lighten the burden on monetary policy. We are thus a step closer to a substantial lowering of interest rates and the easing of restrictions on bank lending during 1977-78. Banks and other financial institutions will be encouraged to increase lending for private home building, particularly in those States and areas where the capacity of the building industry is under-utilised. 
There, again, is a positive contribution to the task of helping to hold employment and to get unemployment down. But wild spending, in other words the use of funds which are not available from the taxpayer on elaborate projects which require a lot of cash in excess of labour alone would only add to the overall deficit. Let us remember Labor's experiment in that field under what was known as the Regional Employment Development scheme which it suspended and cancelled before the change of government. Labor found that it did not work and it was too costly. It was not able to put up any alternative. Yet Labor supporters will criticise us for not implementing grandiose schemes merely to create employment. Of course, that is typical of those who espouse the Keynesian system of finance. God help us if they ever have the chance to experiment again as they did from 1973 to 1975. 
The Government remains concerned about the plight of primary industry. All sectors of Australia's rural industry, particularly the beef cattle producers, continue to fight against the cost rises to which I have referred which are the direct consequence of inflation. The Government will continue to introduce practical measures to help restore profitability to the cattle industry. Irresponsible speculation on any particular scheme can do nothing but harm. The Government has said that it will take effective action. I am confident that over the next few days or weeks we will see precisely what are the consequences of the work being done by the Government in this direction. 
I make one passing reference to the effect of costs on primary industry. A schedule of the trend in wages under the Federal Meat Industry Interim Award shows a 70 per cent increase from January 1974 to March 1977. The 70 per cent increase flows right through each category of the industry such as slaughtermen and those employees essential in the various abattoir operations. This is ludicrous when we compare the employees ' position with that of the producers of the stock which they are handling. Yet there is no way in which the producer can claim a higher return. It is a matter of responsibility upon the shoulders of the Government to take action to help in that regard. As I said, a responsible approach is being made. I hope that it will be matched by a responsible attitude on the part of the community to see that militancy and the use of pressure to gain higher wages do not offset any of the necessary approaches to try to restore viability to primary industry. 
There are still those Jeremiahs in the community who say that the Government 's approach is not necessary. If they are asked why it is not necessary they say: 'The deficit does not matter; it is just a figure on paper. You can raise the money by borrowing it or printing it'. They immediately deny that the 23 per cent level of inflation caused by those very procedures is the reason for the economic dilemma that industries of the sort to which I have referred are in today. In this respect the Budget is a good Budget. Criticism of it on a sectional basis in respect of matters concerning specific industries are not justified. For example, there is a criticism that there was no allocation for the introduction of classification of meat in Australia. Have we forgotten that the work thus far carried out, including the initial experimental work which is absolutely essential before full implementation on every meat chain is possible, has been financed by the Government? Let us remember that this sort of thing is the responsibility of the Government in terms of actions not specifically tied into the Budget. There is no reluctance on the part of the Government to play its part, along with the industry, in seeing that objective classification is introduced speedily for the benefit of the cattle industry, and along with it a range of other effective measures. 
In the course of the short debate thus far there has been reference to Government policy in terms of its approach to overseas marketing. I want to point out very clearly that the difficulties and disabilities which confront this country in the marketing field are by no means simple of resolution. Also, there has been no lack of effort to try to deal effectively with these essential matters. Let us compare that effort with the actions of the previous Government in respect of trade negotiations. A whole retinue of Ministers, one after the other, went, and then huge contingents were sent, to Tokyo, the Middle East and almost all the ports of the world. This action was aimed at one thing- to try to bridge the financial mess that this country had got into. We heard some reference to this in the House earlier this afternoon. 
The previous Government, despite its tenacious efforts, did not make one effective announcement about improving our returns in the primary industry sector, the mining sector or any other export sector. Yet, the present Opposition has criticised the effective approach made by this Government which in the short time since the last election has been successful in virtually doubling sales in many of these difficult areas. For example, there has been a doubling of the throughput of meat. This result has not been achieved by accident; it has been a consequence of winning new markets, some of which are not very profitable. However, at least this has drained off some of the surplus; at least it has provided a hope for an increased return from each of the markets as prices improve. Likewise, in other fields we find that the confidence that is returning to industry is sufficient for the announcement a few days ago in respect of the North West Shelf and for the announcement by many industries of expansion and a restoration of an approach to development. This is the only way we will solve the economic problems of Australia. It is the only way we will steer out of the troubled waters into which we were taken so abruptly. I urge the community to support this Government in respect of this Budget which is a responsible approach to the needs of Australia at this time. 
-The proposition advanced by the Opposition has probably been one of the weakest submissions to this House as a matter of public importance, certainly in this session. The evidence submitted has been lamentable. I am surprised that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  were so unprepared in putting forward a matter which they apparently had the support of their party so to do. One can conclude only that this part of a current campaign: Thank the Lord for South Australia. I believe that there is an election campaign in South Australia. Of course, the disaster in South Australia is directly related to the failure of the Labor Government of South Australia to handle its own affairs. Now that the Premier is running scared in an election campaign he has no doubt directed his colleagues from that State to try to put a case in this House. They have failed completely. 
I believe that the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  answered very effectively. He gave a most detailed account of the Government's approach to this matter, the implementation of Government policy and the on-going approach to the important question of structural adjustment. I commend him for it. I think he did a better job than a Minister could have done. He was answering honourable members from his own State. He knew exactly what the case was. He put it very well. I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide in particular of the awful mess that his Government made in its endeavours to clutch at some kind of structural adjustment a little over two years ago. Let us remember the massive funds, shooting from the hip, poured into corporations like Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. I think the amount given to try to sustain employment in one major corporation in this country was about $3m or $4m. In so doing the Labor Government ran almost totally against the philosophy of its party. Total failure was the outcome. Then there was the great scheme of support for six months known, I believe, as income maintenance. This scheme was to provide funds for wages to enterprises that had run out of business and for the people employed to sit down and do nothing. What a disaster that turned out to be. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that it was until they got a job. There has been an increase in the unemployment figures of November 1975. No one denies that. It was seen that this would occur but the cause and effect were already there. The Labor Government attempted the Regional Employment Development scheme and then cancelled it. It tried all sorts of patch-up jobs on this matter of structural adjustment. They all failed. Yet Labor spokesmen this afternoon are criticising the present Government for not having some ready-made scheme to pick up every failure that occurs. 
Let us recall the real reason for the downturn in the economy. Let us recall the trend that set in immediately the Labor Government occupied the treasury benches. Inflation shot up into record figures. What did that do? It increased wages in some industries by as much as 1 10 per cent. Industry just could not carry that kind of stepping up of its costs and we priced ourselves out of the market place- out of the domestic market place and particularly out of the overseas market place. Many industries sought to move off-shore, to set up outside this country, to challenge our own industries, because of the cost structure introduced by the people here this afternoon who are criticising the present Government for failing to provide structural adjustment. 
Let us recall what was said by the honourable member for Kingston who spoke for the Government in this matter a short time ago. He outlined very clearly the sensible approach that is being taken. There has been a return of confidence. There is now a preparedness on the part of industry to again invest in new plant and equipment. The reason for that is the Government undertook in 1975 to introduce such measures as the investment allowance. It was introduced promptly. This has been a boon to industry. Who took it away previously? Who caused the downturn in industry? It was the previous Labor Government. Yet the honourable member for Hindmarsh tells us that we have not kept up with technology, we have not enough trained men, we have  not  done the job we should have done. He should look at his own failures in that direction. 
Of course, he tells us in glowing words that what we need are trained technicians. Let me remind him that in the allocations for education in the present Budget there is particular emphasis on technical education. The greatest percentage increase in outlay for all sectors of education is in the technical education field. It is specifically for that purpose. Of course we need people trained. Of course we need to step up the standards in that field. We are doing that successfully. These are the people who will be the first to return to employment. Because the Government has recognised this it has placed special emphasis on youth employment schemes. The allocation in the present Budget for that purpose of over $ 1 00m represents an increase of 33 per cent and is evidence of the Government's positive action in this direction. 
Let us think for a moment about some of the other aspects of what has occurred. The Government has been under tremendous pressure because of the disturbance to the system that had occurred. We recall that overnight the previous Government cut tariff rates by 25 per cent. We remember what that did to industry in Australia. The present Government has had the difficult task in the last 24 months or so of restoring confidence in many directions. I instance the approach that is being made in this matter in relation to the activities of the Industries Assistance Commission. It has been effective and I believe that it has been the basis upon which the whole problem has to be tackled. Certainly there has been criticism of the Commission. There has been heavy criticism in the last fortnight and there has been a response by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This is politics. These are the facts of life. 
Let us recall what happened when there was a 25 per cent across the board cut in tariff rates and let us recall the criticisms and comments that were made at that time. Today people have their feet on the ground but at that time people were thrown into deep confusion. They did not know where they were going and they did not have the slightest idea what to expect next. This Government has set about restoring a situation in which there can be reasoned confidence. The inquiry announced yesterday and referred to earlier in this debate is a positive approach. It is a follow through. It is not just an overnight or spur of the moment decision. The honourable member for Hindmarsh, despite his criticism, knows that all too well. We are going through one of the toughest economic periods that this country has been through- a time when there are massive problems in world trade with the disposal of productivity, a time when productivity has been shaken to its very foundations because it has not kept pace with cost rises. At this time the Government has established a basis for real restructuring. That is occurring. It is evident. The facts and figures are to be seen, to be listened to and to be understood. I am sure that those concerned, particularly those in industry and finance, understand that very clearly. I believe that the Opposition has done itself a disservice this afternoon by its very poor approach which  obviously, as I have said, is related directly to politics in the State of South Australia. All I can say is: God help South Australia if the same tragedy that one finds there today is to continue. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the House. I refer to Order of the Day No. 22 on the Notice Paper, the ministerial statement on the Pine Gap Joint Defence' Space Research Facility. Will this be debated? Can the Minister comment on the arrangements in this regard? 
-The attack by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on the amendments is certainly something that could be regarded as predictable.  His  case falls to the ground and has no substantiation. It will be recalled that amendments to the Trade Practices Act have occurred on a number of occasions in the life of this Parliament. It is all directly related to an undertaking given. That was that imperfections, serious anomalies, would be reviewed and appropriate action taken when it was found reasonable so to do. That is exactly why these current amendments have been introduced. I do not propose to traverse them aU because they are clearly understood by those who want to apply themselves on a basis of fair judgment of the Government's action. 
Unfortunately the Opposition feels some disappoinment because its extreme approach in this matter a few years ago was designed quite clearly as a socialist approach. It was an approach which was summed up in the words of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith when he said that there had been pressure from an international combine, as he described it. He referred to multinationals and the like but failed to recognise the importance of balance between this and the field of commercial operation in this country. This was particularly so when he said that we should be taking action that differs from that taken in the United Kingdom and other places where greater experience has occurred and where, of course, there is a greater appreciation of the involvements. He suggested that we should be the pacesetters in some of these matters. How ridiculous! It astounds me to think that we could approach matters of this kind on the basis that the more limited business scope in this country is sufficient upon which to base judgment. But still that is the proposition that has been put. 
Quite clearly there is a lack of understanding, particularly of the import of clause 5. The difficulties that arose as a consequence of the provisions of clause 5 are very clear. What is proposed is to bring about a fairer situation, not just for large companies- the honourable member named IBM-but for the whole spectrum of those commercial operations that supply equipment up to a certain value. The assertion that it should be fair that damage should be entertained in the matter of losses that might occur is a very one-sided view. I say to the House that if that is the view in this matter, what about industrial disruption? What about damage that occurs then to the success of a commercial operation? It is a very different argument when that kind of thing is raised in this forum or in any other place by the Opposition. Therefore I repeat that the expressions by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith in this matter are predictable. Obviously a political judgment rather than a factual one has been made by the Opposition in looking at this particular issue. 
I said that I did not propose to traverse all the details. That is for the reason that there is a time limitation and also that it is not really necessary. What we want to be clear on is that the Government is honouring an undertaking to amend where there is justification so to do, when proper cases have been put as to the effect of the legislation in its original form. No doubt there will be further instances where there is a need to take action of this kind. It is very clear that the Government is seeking to free Australian commerce from unnecessary straitjackets imposed by the legislation and where there is unnecessary restrictiveness. Small business will be assisted to a very great extent by the amendments. In fact the interpretations that have sometimes been placed on the present legislation have been shown to be quite wrong. That is particularly evident in the attitude that was displayed by people commenting in financial columns and the like as to the effect of the amendments. This caused some real worry and concern for retailers when they were not going to be involved at all in the way that was described. It is a pity, when we want to have an effective trade practices measure, that there is distortion and that that distortion is so often strongly expressed on wrong premises. For that reason I commend the amendments contained in the Bill. Very clearly, they are aimed at assisting the consumer, and the supplier- indeed the whole spectrum of straight forward business in this country. 
This Bill is of tremendous importance to the nation. I commend the Government for introducing it. It is a consequence of deliberations between Ministers from the respective States and the Federal Minister. It has been a matter of grave concern to all thinking Australians that the involvement of people in this country in high-powered trafficking in drugs has drawn us into the net of a world wide problem, and we of course regard this as a very serious imposition particularly on young people. It is essential that the penalties that applied in 1971 be updated. The difference between $4,000 and $100,000 and the increase in the comparatively light maximum imprisonment deterrent to 25 years were designed following careful consideration by State and Federal Ministers to bring about the required deterrent against the pusher. It is essential that this be done and I am sure that the action of the Government will be endorsed by the vast majority of the Australian people. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  did say that he doubted whether it would solve anything and he said that it would not really stop the problem. I remind him that this has not been the experience in other countries and I am sure that it will not be the experience here. Certainly the ramifications of the problem of drugs are very wide and whatever can be done by research, inquiries, royal commissions and the like should be done, but notwithstanding that we need to be vigilant. It is vital that this legislation in the dying hours of this Parliament should get on to the statute book. It is important that the Government should give a lead in the matter of deterrent penalties and punishment. There is no alternative if we are to toughen up on the people who are the exploiters in this field. I strongly support the measure. 
-The consequence of the rapid increase in real wages in 1973-74 was record inflation of 17 per cent and massive unemployment. Yet the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  comes into this place and extols the virtue of that approach which of course was so damaging to the economic fabric of this country. The Government's wages policy objectives have been defined. I believe that they present to this nation a proper and responsible approach. They have been defined, firstly, as a means to achieve economic, industrial and social objectives and thereby the raising of living standards and the maintenance of job security. Surely job security should come first. It ill behoves the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Cunningham to endeavour to pull the wool over the eyes of many Australians particularly those in the hard working section of the community by suggesting that the facts are otherwise. If the economic policies proposed by the present Leader of the Opposition were ever to be implemented, of course the whole spectrum of the economy of this country would again drastically change. In the current economic circumstances, the most appropriate policy is to support a centralised wage fixing system based on orderly and equitable principles. It is really startling to discover that the Opposition is suggesting a movement away from this approach. 
The Government has supported wage indexation principles. However, the Government is participating in a review of the principles currently being followed through a proper inquiry into wage fixation and the basis of wage fixation. The inquiry is being, chaired by the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Surely this is a proper approach to determine any changes to and any modifications of the present system. Yet in this discussion on the matter of public importance now before the House the Opposition is really proposing a departure from this approach. The submissions made by the Government in the December quarter wages case were positive, correct and certainly were accepted to a very large extent by the Commission. The principal submission was that the current economic circumstances preclude any increase being awarded at this time. Increments to disposable income flowing from tax reductions and the creation of a climate in which a 'no increase' decision would be beneficial and acceptable were also strongly put and largely accepted. The facts are that no wage adjustment should be awarded on equity grounds since the union argument to maintain the value of real wages ignores the wider equity considerations of the Australian community. The honourable member for Cunningham completely ignored that aspect. He completely ignored the reference to unemployment and then used the ploy, as did the Leader of the Opposition, that the present movement in the economy reflected that the Government's policy was not working. The honourable member for Cunningham totally ignored- or he failed to recognisethe fact that inflation has come down from 17 per cent to approximately 9 per cent. He failed to recognise that this is the basis upon which we will see a restoration of unemployment. He ignored the exact figures in relation to the unemployment situation. He ignored the fact that in 1972, when the previous Liberal-Country Party Government went out of office, unemployment was down to the low figure of 136,000, or 2.4 per cent of the work force. In December 1975, when Labor left office, there had been an astronomical increase in unemployment to 328,000, or 5.4 per cent of the work force. That was the highest level of unemployment for a quarter of a century. Unemployment had rocketed by 140 per cent in three years. I mention that because it is the real answer to the honourable member's assertion that wage increases are desirable if we are to have an effective approach to economic restoration. 
Let us look what savage wage increases did. They put us into our present circumstance of record unemployment. Now the Government is faced with lowering the number of unemployed, and the job is being well and truly done. This matter of public importance should read: 'The Labor Government's lack of a coherent and nationally acceptable wage policy which reduced real incomes and contributed to the recession'. That is exactly what happened. Conditions for wage restraint are the real issue of this debate. The Government has established the circumstances that make it necessary to ask for wage restraint. It has done that by the introduction of family allowance, tax indexation and the new standardised tax system which began operating on 1 February. That was just over 30 days ago. Yet the honourable member for Cunningham and the Leader of the Opposition say that it is not working. They have not even given it a few weeks in which to get under way and they try to point to lack of success, which of course shows that they are totally ignorant of the real considerations. 
In other matters they have failed miserably to make out a case. They have referred to the problems in certain sections of industry in regaining demand. Of course there are difficulties. The Government has never suggested otherwise. It has always been quite clear that  there  would be a time lag, but the important element is what is happening in respect of arresting the drift. That is to be seen in two areas. The first is the halt in the increasing level of unemployment. The figures at the end of December showed a lower level of unemployment than that which applied when the Government came to office just 24 months earlier. The other area is the increase  in  consumer spending during the December period. Naturally there would be a fall back in January. That is not unusual. Perhaps it was a little greater than usual on this occasion, but let us look at the real facts. The confidence is there. 
I believe that it does a disservice to this nation to attempt wilfully to say that there is lack of evidence of the success of the economic policies proposed by the Government, which were accepted by the people at the ballot box. Submissions put to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by the Government have been largely accepted. The proposals put to the Commission by the Australian Council of Trade Unions have really been totally rejected. Obviously there is a restoration of business confidence in this nation. Yet we have a quite mischievous proposition pur before the House. It must have been difficult for the Leader of the Opposition to draft the text of his matter of public importance. The words are quite contradictory. We see that half-way through it contradicts what is stated in the first part. That shows how difficult it is for the Leader of the Opposition, finding his feet very slowly and very gradually, to develop any kind of coherent economic policy. Of course, we remember his last Budget. He proposed an increase of about 22 per cent in wages for that year but he also proposed tax increases of 44 per cent. I hope that the honourable member for Cunningham will go back and tell his constituents the real truth about what his own leader proposed for this nation in the short-lived Budget that he presented in this House three years ago. 
My friend says that I am conservative. I remember a colleague of his, another Treasurer, the former honourable member for Melbourne Ports appealing for the lowering of wages. He said that high wages meant the taking of another man's job. I believe that that was an honest statement made by the former honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The honourable member for Hindmarsh, who undoubtedly supported him at that time, is now trying to escape from the responsibility of making an approach which I believe was correct at that time. But for political expediency of course another policy and another course are now being proposed by the present Opposition. 
This matter of public importance has highlighted once again the fact that the Opposition is totally bereft of a positive economic policy. It is totally bereft of solutions to the unemployment problem. This was disclosed in the Australian Labor Party's election policy when it suggested a very miserable proposition for the restoration of employment in this nation. 
I support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech which  His Excellency  made at the opening of this Parliament. I refer particularly to the expressions of loyalty to the Sovereign and to the expressions of thanks to  His Excellency  for the address which he delivered to both Houses of Parliament. I extend congratulations to  Mr Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees on their election to those offices. At the same time I pay tribute to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  for the long and distinguished service which he gave as  Chairman  of Committees in this House. During that period many honourable members in this House now and many who are no longer in this House respected his capacity, admired his approach and followed many of the precepts and much of the advice which he offered as one who had occupied that office for a very long time and had come to know the Standing Orders, the procedures and the wisdom of an effective House of Representatives, which is always in the best interests of the nation. An effective House can come only through control of it by the Chair in a manner which upholds the dignity of the House, upholds the Standing Orders and preserves the traditions of the Parliament. I pay special tribute to the honourable member for Lyne for the great leadership that he has given in that direction. 
The Address-in-Reply debate has presented an opportunity for many honourable members to make their maiden speeches and I congratulate all those honourable members who have acquitted themselves so well in that regard. Before I proceed to other references I pay tribute to two former members of my Party who are not in this Parliament.  Mr Bob  King, who was the member for the former division of Wimmera for so many years, was highly respected in this House for his contribution to the Parliament and highly respected throughout the nation as an expert in many fields of primary industry. He devoted himself to many matters which were debated in this chamber over the years that he served in it. I am sure that his loss to the Parliament is a loss to Australia. I also recall the excellent service given by  Colonel Sullivan  as the former member for Riverina during the period that he served in this House. 
Election to this chamber is not a matter to be treated lightly. Because a very high tribute has been paid to a person who occupies a seat in this chamber, I believe that there is a responsibility on that person to make a contribution to supporting a worthwhile philosophy. The member belongs to a party, and that gives him a basic start in politics. It is then up to the member to show his calibre in the manner in which he contributes to the Parliament and in the manner in which he conducts himself in this chamber. We will observe with interest during this Parliament and possibly in later parliaments many honourable members whom we have heard speak in this debate. I am sure that the nation is richer for the decision of the electors on 10 December last and for the composition of this Parliament, and, in particular, the present composition of the House of Representatives. Since the Federal election an enormous amount of effort has been expended by the Government in preparing a record program of legislation covering economic issues, the drug problem and trade negotiations, which are so essential. 
The Government's program also covers improvement in industrial relations, which is absolutely indispensable if we are to see an increase in productivity and the restoration of the economy in the interests of every citizen of this nation. It covers many other matters of the highest national priority. I listened to the honourable member who for approximately 15 minutes did not mention one word about his party's amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
He said that he did twice. He talked about some obscure matter and contributed very little for an honourable member who is here for his second term. Let me give him some advice. He would want to see his party increase its numbers in this chamber from the lowly number of 38 members. If I had suggested a few years ago that so few Labour members would be here people would have thought I was crazy. 
-People would have found it very difficult to contemplate that the National Country Party would have half as many representatives in the Parliament as the Labor Party has. That is the situation today. If one looks at the total composition of the Parliament one finds that the socialists are down to that miserable number of 38, and we on this side of the House have the record numbers of 67 Liberals and 19 National Country Party members, a total of 86 Government members. That was an expression of the feeling of the people shown at the ballot box at a time when there was great criticism by the Australian Labor Party in so many directions. I think that the support accorded to that party equates with the real worth of the criticism its members offered in that election campaign. It is interesting to reflect that at the time of the election the media predictions were that the result would be close. We have seen how close it was. More importantly, however, is the decision of the electors in matters of principle, matters of policy and matters which they saw as being sound propositions put forward by the Government parties. Those sound propositions are the legislative program for this and subsequent sessions of the national Parliament as outlined in the Governor-General's Speech at the opening of the Parliament. 
Let me refer in particular to the recent national wage case hearings before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which were crucial to government policy and to the Government's promises to the electors. In the most recent hearing the Government put forward the proposition for a reduction in the rate of inflation and for bringing down costs in a manner that would be effective in restoring growth and productivity. The low level of productivity, resulting in a low level of economic growth, is the root cause of our present high level of unemployment. The submissions which were put forward and the determination which was made were of the greatest significance. We find - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Giles)Order! I ask the honourable member to resume his seat. I do not wish to hear what the honourable member for Prospect is saying about money. I ask him to keep his voice down when he is talking to the Minister. 
-We find once again that the philosophy of the socialist is to seek a higher proportion- 
The philosophy of the socialist is to seek a higher proportion of the cake in terms of the available resources. This was summed up very well recently by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when he said that it should be acknowledged that unemployment was a matter of common concern in the community. He said that sustained progress could not be achieved in reducing unemployment until the distortion between real wages and productivity was removed so that employers could afford to take on more workers. That, I believe, sums up the present situation, and the Government's policy is motivated in this direction. It will be reflected in the matters dealt with in this session of the Parliament. 
Many matters relating to unemployment can engage all of us in debate and in effective work as parliamentarians. I am concerned that young people face great difficulty in presenting themselves for jobs that may be available and in equipping themselves with skills for those jobs. I am very concerned that there is a shortage of skilled workers in certain sections of industry and that, despite a level of unemployment of 7 per cent, the requirements of some sections of industry are still unable to be fulfilled. It is to the credit of the Metal Trades Industry Association that it has pinpointed the problem and has made suggestions regarding the kind of training that is necessary to overcome the very real imbalance between available trained workers and the numbers of people unemployed. These matters will engage the Government- particularly the members of the Government- during this session and during the Budget session. I hope that, as a consequence, there will be substantial changes in the way in which this problem is handled. 
I believe that in many instances there is a very great need for specialist training and for counselling and social work to be undertaken. There is a need to recruit people specially trained in dealing with young people who have particular problems and who at the moment are not receiving the kind of help they need. They are in a dreadful dilemma. Many of them face the prospect of not being able to obtain unemployment benefit because of the present work test requirements. Yet if they are excluded they fall into a very difficult area in which there is not adequate provision for social worker assistance or advice on how to overcome their problems. Of course others are deliberately endeavouring to sustain themselves on unemployment benefit and are doing their utmost to dodge work. I have no sympathy whatever for those people. Many of them approach me in my electorate, and I have no compuction in advising them very precisely on how they should handle their problem. The advice I give is that they must at least show some real interest in seeking work and that they will never be of any use to themselves or to the rest of the community if they are slack and lax in that respect. 
In the limited time available to me I want to refer to some matters of significance not only to my own electorate but also to the majority of the electorates throughout Australia. A very significant decision taken by the Government was the decision to remove estate duty. In recent weeks there has been some confusion as to where the Government actually stands in relation to that matter. I refer to a statement made by the Treasurer which I believe clears up the matter completely. The position currently is that the Government has announced that Federal estate and gift duties will be abolished. That is to be effective as from 21 November last. The first abolition of estate duty, which is on property passing to a widow, widower, children or parents of a deceased person, will apply to the estates of persons who died on or after 2 1 November last. Gifts made on or after 21 November last to a spouse, to children or to parents also will be exempt from gift duty. 
The second stage of the promised abolition, which relates to all duties on estates of persons who died on or after 1 July 1979 and on gifts made on or after that date, also will be of very great significance to the Australians who have an interest and a desire in the field of private enterprise to sustain a business or to sustain a family enterprise of some kind which would otherwise face the strains and the dilemma of finding funds to keep it operative after a deathperhaps an unexpected death or that sort of thing. I believe that nothing can contribute more to confidence in the free enterprise system than the removal of that impost, which has caused so many people difficulty for so long. 
In other fields, of course, it is a matter of trying to ensure the maintenance of the limited financial resources available in this economic climate in which we find ourselves. I refer to the consequences of the wild spending of the Labor Government from 1973 to 1975. 1 refer also to the wage escalations, and the cost increases which occurred and the consequent need to reduce the deficit, which is still very high and which impinges upon all of the plans and aspirations of those who want to see greater development at this time. While that is the situation, it is important to get right our priorities in terms of the expenditures that we are able to undertake. 
One field which should be given support is that of local government. I wish to commend the action taken to increase further the proportion of revenue which will flow to local government. That action is designed particularly to help arrest costs and to even out the burden on the total community. When one hears the glib propositions so often expressed by the Opposition about the need to equalise wealth in this country, one feels a real despair about what would happen if it ever had the chance again to influence the economy of this country. When dealing with the matter of equalising wealth the question of priorities arises. I believe that the present Liberal-National Country Party Government has a far better assessment of what will achieve the balance. In other words, we need to preserve effective free enterprise but at the same time to remove all undue burdens from those sections of the community which need relief. If the Labor Government had followed that kind of philosophy at the beginning of 1973 it might still be occupying the Treasury bench. But because of its attitude of arbitrarily taking from one section to hand to another section it created a void in the economy with the consequence that it did not have the capacity to carry the extensive and lavish social welfare programs which were introduced. Nevertheless, we are able to hold our heads high and to show very clearly that we can sustain at least the levels of those essential social welfare programs which are indispensable in this period of high costs and at this time of uncertainty. 
I conclude my remarks by referring briefly to the very great problems still confronting the rural community. I refer in particular to the problems facing particular sections of primary industrythe beef industry, the dairy industry, the sugar industry, and a number of others- which, because of the loss of overseas markets, the serious effect of high costs and the consequent low returns, are in a parlous state. The Government will continue its efforts to assist the people engaged in those industries. The beef producers in particular will be assisted by the subsidy scheme which is now in operation. Support will be provided for the dairy industry. I hope that stage 2 of the dairy industry marketing arrangements will be implemented at an early date. Consideration will be given to adjusting the domestic price of sugar. Many other matters need to receive urgent attention. Of course, the Government will be looking also at such matters as the national water resources program, which provides a means of providing assistance for water supply purposes and flood mitigation purposes and to many other essential projects throughout the nation. That program is to be underwritten to the extent of $200m over the next five years. It is anticipated that the States will co-operate and will also contribute to the program, which will be given effect to by the legislation which has already been introduced in this session of the Parliament. 
The Australian scene is such that there is a great need to return to effective productivity and the restoration of economic growth and, as a consequence, to set aside the disaster area created by the Opposition during its period in government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for 
Health aware of the very heavy expenses involved in orthodontic treatment in cases of cleft lip and palate for which rebates are not available under the medical benefits scheme? Is the Government doing anything to relieve this burden? 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the long disruption to live sheep exports from this country which came to a head yesterday. Whilst appreciating the resolve reached last night, will the Government give an assurance that it will not back away from the industrial legislation necessary to deal with critical situations such as the ban on live sheep exports, delays of wheat shipments and the like? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Can he inform the House of the outcome of the discussions which he and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had in Darwin yesterday with the Northern Land Council and the Northern Territory Executive concerning uranium mining? Was the objective that he mentioned in the House on Tuesday achieved, that is, an understanding between the various parties? 
-I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister concerning the Federal Government's fuel equalisation scheme. I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether he can tell the House why it is necessary to make special arrangements to enable the Government's country fuel subsidy scheme to operate in New South Wales in the foreseable future? 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources. Has the Minister recently had discussions with  Sir John  Hill, the  chairman  of the British Atomic Energy Agency? Can the Minister inform the House what information is available about Britain's uranium requirements, and the implications of this for Australia? 
Since 1975 the objective of the Government has been to steer the Australian economy back on to a course of steady non-inflationary growth. The legacies of the period from 1 972 to 1975, as we all know so well, were escalating inflation, the collapse of private sector confidence in the economy, a wages explosion and mounting unemployment. From the moment of taking office the Government has treated the first of these, inflation, as the prime enemy and has made its defeat the first objective. Of course, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and his henchman the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  find themselves in a position where their philosophy and the philosophy of their party is at risk in the face of the Government 's action to restore the economy of the Australian nation. They find themselves at a disadvantage because no longer can they effectively espouse their directly socialist policies and have the people believe them. 
The weapons used by the Government to fight the spiralling inflation, the lack of confidence and the loss of economic solvency have been to restrain government expenditure and to introduce a sensible monetary policy and a disciplined wages policy. As a result of the application of these policies the rate of inflation has been brought down to single digit figures, consumer spending has been steadily increasing and, within the confines of what is possible in the circumstances, business has been picking up. Even in recent days we have noticed the reaction on the stock exchanges. This has so infuriated the Australian Labor Party that it has been directly involved with extreme elements of this country from which, on Monday last, we saw violence in the Sydney Stock Exchange. If one looks at the placards that were used in the demonstration on Monday last one sees that without doubt what the wording of them implied was simply the bitterness, the rancour and the disappointment of the Opposition when it could see the economy coming back to reason in the hands of the present Government. This afternoon the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Adelaide is nothing more or less than a whingeing session against the achievements of the Government in this matter of the nation's economy. 
The honourable member for Adelaide says that we are creating inequalities. Without doubt the period of complete ravaging of the economy created tremendous inequalities. Without doubt it had an impact which resulted in the loss of employment to thousands of Australians, and honourable members opposite well know it. 
-If we look at the rate of wage increases we find that they have been of the order of 10 per cent ahead of the rate of the inflation spiral. If we look at the cause of that and at the propositions put to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by this Government in contrast to the approach adopted by the previous Government we get a very complete answer to the question just asked by the honourable member for Bonython. 
The truth of the matter is that the course being followed by this Government is the only course which will lead the nation back into a situation where there is equity and justice for the average 
Australian. That equity and justice can come only through a situation in which we bring an end to the spiralling costs and bring an end to the ravaging of the economy which has reached the extent where investment is incapable of carrying the needs of the day for expansion, for growth, for productivity and for development which will provide adequate employment. Honourable members opposite well know that this is so, but of course they use the subterfuge of talking about the Scrooges of the present day. The honourable member for Adelaide compared the so-called Scrooges with the people who had the onerous responsibility of solving the problems of the 1930s. Who created the problems of the 1930s? Was it the Scullin Government and people associated with it? The honourable member for Adelaide shakes his head, yet he knows that at that time those people brought this country to a crisis stage which was very similar to the situation we faced at the end of 1975. But then there were elements of a vastly different nature as far as social factors were concerned. 
In the post-war period what government introduced the first proposals for unemployment benefits, for protection against the day when there would be difficulties of that sort? It was not a socialist Labor government. What government introduced protection for the monetary system and established a Reserve Bank so that the nation's solvency at least could be protected against the sorts of moves that were attempted between 1972 and 1975? It was not a socialist Labor government; it was a government of the free enterprise philosophy which for so many years in the past several decades has had the strong and undivided support of the majority of the Australian people, just as the present Government has for those policies which it is now so effectively implementing to salvage this nation from the blatant attack that was made upon it by socialists like the honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Bonython. 
This afternoon we find this matter of public importance before the House. It is just one more instrument of propaganda to try to influence people to believe that there is something wrong with the Government's approach at a time of difficulty and hardship. Of course, it is a time of difficulty and hardship. It is so because of the extreme effect of a deficit in the national coffers of up to something approaching $4,000m. This deficit is not easy to get rid of, but the actions taken last year and this year certainly will go a long way towards that being accomplished. Something else was made patently clear by the honourable member for Adelaide. He used words indicating that he believed that there was a need for the introduction of a capital gains tax, that there was inactivity in the redistribution of wealth. Of course, they were the measures the Labor Party adopted to bring about this destruction which is now a matter of real concern to every Australian and the bane of this Government in rectifying, in the interests of the long term future of the whole of Australia. 
Let us look at the facts. The rate of inflation was running at the level of 18 to 19 per cent per annum. This has been brought back to a single digit figure. If we look at the position at the end of the June quarter we find that the consumer price index was down to 2. 1 per cent. It is on this basis that we find that the Government's policies are in fact working. An assertion has been made that the level of unemployment- I am speaking of unemployment in all sectors of the community, including rural unemployment- is a major problem. Of course it is. But what the people who want to engender fear and concern into the minds of the average Australian fail to recognise is the extent to which since December 1 975 there has been an increase in the number of jobs available. 
-Of course it is true. If the honourable member were to look at the statistics he would find that job opportunities have increased. The number of people in gainful employment has increased substantially. Of course, there is still the same pool of people who could work if additional work opportunities were available, people who are receiving the unemployment benefit. We should look at the whole spectrum. I hate to think of what the position would have been if the policies that did apply from 1972 to 1975 were still in effect. We would find that the jobless situation would be far, far worse than it is today. 
The other implied references in this debate have related to those sections of the community that have experienced very great difficulty in this time of economic disaster. I refer to the rural sector. Of course, we would have liked to have reversed very quickly the effects of the previous Government adopting almost in toto the recommendations contained in the Coombs report. This wrecked many of the facets of effective and viable primary production. Because of the raid on the coffers and the deficit situation, it is not possible to restore all these things quickly and effectively. So the sensible action that the Government is taking is the only course. It is the only course that will rid this country of the piracy that occurred under the Labor Government. It is the policy that will see inflation reduced to about 5 per cent at the end of the current financial year. It is the policy that will bring back viability to the business sector and the primary sector and will provide this nation with the opportunity of getting a sensible wage structure once again and a sensible relationship between productivity, the use of capital and the results that flow from it. 
-I direct a question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the importance of live cattle exports in the economic recovery of the beef cattle producing regions of Australia. Will the Government take all possible steps further to promote live cattle exports and the development of markets for this purpose and to ensure that industrial disruptions such as those which occurred in Brisbane yesterday will not be allowed to impede in any way tins important trade? 
-by leave-I would like to be associated with the remarks made in the chamber today concerning the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism which has been presented to the House. I congratulate the  Chairman,  the previous  Chairman  and the members of the Committee who have served since is was first established. As was mentioned earlier, it submitted an interim report and now, of course, it has submitted a final report. A tremendous amount of work has been involved. As a member of the Committee at both stages I am more than pleased to have had the opportunity to work with fellow members of the Committee. They have worked on this very important task of identifying the problems and needs of the tourist industry and on the report which has been submitted to the Parliament. 
It will be recalled that when the  Chairman  spoke on the report earlier today he identified some 26 issues facing the tourist industry. I was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  concerning some of the disabilities of the industry in respect of costs and particularly the cost of labour. Subsequently, of course, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  expressed a somewhat contrary view. Nevertheless, the facts remain that employment in the tourist industry, which was assessed in New South Wales during the period to the end of the previous financial year, fell no less than 28 per cent. It fell to that extent because of the effect of penalty rates and high wages. Of the people employed in the industry, 6,500 found that they had lost their jobs because of the effect of this extraordinarily high level of costs on the industry. Of course, these costs apply to the various sectors of the industry, whether they be motels, hotels or other tourist attractions. 
Mention was made earlier of services within the industry. Because of this disability, even the very essential tourist information centres in many localities are no longer open at weekends. This is simply because of the extraordinary cost associated with penalty rates which have to be paid to maintain service in respect of these facilities which are absolutely essential if tourism is to continue to expand and if service is to be provided for those who are taking advantage of the more liberal leave provision that is available these days in industry, in the Public Service and, for that matter, in all sections of the community. As a consequence, these people find it desirable to take their families within the country and to travel fairly extensively. They are entitled to service and they are entitled to it at a reasonable cost. I hope that some of the information that has been unearthed by the Committee, its findings and its recommendations in respect of this matter will be taken very seriously indeed. 
I do not dispute for one moment the view of the honourable member for Newcastle that this is primarily a matter for the conciliation and arbitration commissioners. I remind the honourable member that in order to get a reasoned decision there has to be, firstly, a recognition and, secondly, a participation on the basis of at least some degree of well meaning and goodwill on the part of the employee and the employer. This must happen if we are to resolve the industry's most difficult problem- that of the cost of labour employed- and to provide the necessary services for all sectors of the industry. There are many other matters to which I would like to refer but time constraints make that somewhat difficult this afternoon. 
Of course, .one of the great difficulties confronting the industry at this moment is the availability of capital for further expansion. But there are encouraging signs with the trend towards lower costs and the reduction in the inflation rate. Certainly, on the drawing board now there are many proposals to expand the tourist industry. I have no doubt that, given a continuation of the Government's policy in respect of the de-escalation of inflation and the holding down of costs, this industry can again take off to the advantage of the whole Australian economy. One of the very encouraging indications for the future is the assessment made recently which disclosed that the growth anticipated in overseas tourists coming into this country within the next five years is about 8 per cent. On those figures alone there will be a very tremendous input into the economy of Australia and into the economy of the tourist industry. 
People in the centres that will be visited, whether they be the great Gold Coast which was referred to by the previous speaker, or whether they be places in my own area on the North Coast of New South Wales which has one of the highest throughputs of tourist flow of any region in Australia as a consequence of growth rate in development, Will certainly look forward with anticipation to what can come from the field of overseas tourism. There are many other very significant areas that have been referred to in the report and in this brief debate today. 
I know that my colleague, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  has a particular interest in regard to yet another of the important regions of Australia. Of course, major attractions are important whether they be the Opera House, Ayers Rock or some other feature of interest to tourists. I want to take issue with the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who was somewhat critical of my colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  in respect of the choice of the location for the site where the National Country Hall of Fame will be established. I do not think the member for Kennedy had any direct responsibility in the selection of the site, but I know that he worked very hard indeed to bring about a favourable decision relating to this very unique proposition. However, when the member for Fadden suggested that Boonah might be a suitable place, I think he could be getting his boundaries a little mixed up again. One cannot site these sorts of things in every location to suit each individual. Although I am a New South Welshman, because of the very nature of what is proposed, I acknowledge immediately that it is appropriate for it to be in western Queensland; that it is a project specifically to recognise the Australian stockman. The National Country HaU of Fame therefore needs to be on the broad plains somewhere in that part of Australia, and I am sure the choice is one that will get that support. 
There is so much that could be said in respect of a subject so broad, so important and so vital to the future of Australia. I am pleased to have been associated with the Committee, with its work, and again I offer my congratulations to all who worked on it, in particular the staff who worked so hard to ensure that this report finally came into this House. 
-Can the Minister for Health inform the House of what progress, if any, has been made by the New South Wales Government in resolving its difficulties in negotiating agreed remuneration for visiting medical officers in country hospitals in New South Wales? Is the stalemate continuing? If so, will the Minister intervene to ensure that medical services in New South Wales country hospitals are maintained? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the proposed increase in postage rates for category A publications, which include most newspapers. I ask: Is this increase scheduled for early 1979 and will it be of the order of 30 per cent to 40 per cent compared with present rates? In view of the grave consequences of this exorbitant increase on residents throughout country areas of Australia who rely on mail services for their local and national newspapers, will the Minister reconsider the matter with a view to having Australia Post review the proposed increase? I further ask that the serious disadvantage such an increase will impose on country residents be taken to heart by the Government and the Australian Postal Commission. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Pig Industry Research Committee constituted to advise the Government on fund allocations for research in the pig industry? Can the Minister advise whether there have been any difficulties in the appointment of members to the Committee? 
-The Bill before the House is one of great significance. It is somewhat surprising to find that the Opposition is making a very lame attempt to criticise this legislation. The broad purpose of the Bill is to modify the operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal by reducing the emphasis on price notification and by broadening the Tribunal 's inquiry function. The legislation is the result of a very great deal of experience not only on the part of the Government but also industry, the community interest and, of course, every section and facet of Australia's business community. The purpose of the legislation is to update the requirement so far as this field of administration is concerned. 
The Bill replaces the present price notification requirements which are based upon the size of the company with selective notification of price increases for a limited period by companies following public inquiry by the PJT. The PJT will in future concentrate its resources in the area of price surveillance and public inquiry. The reasons for this have been clearly outlined to the House by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  Of course, the situation has been very clearly analysed and explained during debate upon this subject over the past two years in this House. 
The Tribunal will also utilise the regular channels of information such as representations by consumers, user industries, commercial information and the official price indices and reports in the operations that are proposed under the changed system. The PJT, of course, will retain its powers to require any company to furnish information about its prices should this be necessary and will therefore be well placed to examine price movements and to maintain close surveillance over prices of particular significance to the economy. The Tribunal will be concerned directly in the field of surveillance and will take into account trends in price movements under the consumer price index. 
Of course, what we have heard this afternoon and this evening from the Opposition is a very one-sided approach to the argument. It is onesided because, as stated by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphries),  we cannot have our cake and eat it too. He referred to concern about inflation. In fact the figures which he quoted showed that there was a great deal of concern that the rate of inflation was again moving slightly upwards, from 7.3 per cent to 9.4 per cent. He then mentioned the figure of 10.7 per cent for January. The question is: Why? It is certainly not because of any impact that the operations of the PJT could have. It is directly related to the demands for wage increases. It is directly related to the pressure that has been put upon industry and upon the manufacturing sector by the militant trade unions. I am sure that the honourable member for Griffith and many others are very conscious of this, but, as they have always done, they are using this avenue of escape from real responsibility. No doubt we will hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  very shortly putting once again a case for a rigid price control mechanism and he will say that this is justice because of the need for indexation. But he still cannot have it both ways. No matter what case is put, unless there is recognition of the ingredients of the economic approach, all of these matters fall to the ground, just as they did in 1973 and 1974 when, of course, we had a referendum by which the government of the day sought powers over prices from the people of this country. The people of this country did not accept the proposition. Yet the Opposition is still trying to convince the community that there is some validity in this approach. 
On the other hand, the Government quite properly is updating this legislation so that it will serve a proper purpose- a purpose of protection where protection is necessary and a purpose related to leadership in terms of eliciting information about what is happening in a particular industry or industries so that there will be an understanding of the needs of that industry or industries in respect of the capital outlayed and the employment provided, and a fair and reasonable price for whatever the commodity might be for the general public. Many of the inquiries have been demanded by people who have been fierce in their demands because they felt that there was some injustice somewhere. Sometimes those demands have come from the Government side of the House and sometimes from the Opposition side of the House or from outside lobbies. I can recall in the last six months a great deal of interest in an inquiry into the beef industry in Australia. What did we find? When a very detailed and close examination was made of many of the allegations that had been floated in headlines around Australia we found that many of them turned out to be baseless. But in the process of the inquiry a lot of useful information for the industry itself, for the consuming public and for the Government was laid open to scrutiny. 
This is the kind of work that is proposed under the changes that this amendment to the Act will provide. I believe that this is the right and proper way to deal with the situation at a time of economic difficulty when we must foster industry and employment and at all costs ensure that there is viability in the face of the difficulties that are created by another section of the community. I refer again to the militant sections of the trade union movement. 
-There are groans from the Opposition side the moment that this point is mentioned. Yet a moment ago we heard trenchant criticism of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and the oil companies. Certainly we believe in a certain amount of surveillance in these directions. Where there is a multinational interest, of course there needs to be some degree of surveillance. We need information because of the relationship, very often in an international sequence of events, of government policies or the general interests of the total community, whatever they happen to be. But at the same time there has to be a fair assessment of what is happening to capital invested and to industries which are endeavouring to operate and which need a viable climate in which to do so. This cannot be looked at in isolation. So I say to the Opposition that the amendments it has proposed today again fall far short of a balanced view of this total situation that this Parliament could take in terms of the attitudes of both sides of the House. We see again a one-sided approach. In fact the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  really once again brought out of the cupboard his economic theory that if we have price control and wage indexation, all is well. I remind the people of Australia that we had a sample of that in 1 973, in 1 974 and into 1975 when we saw 18 per cent inflation rates. 
-We saw inflation rates of 18 per cent. Yet there was operating at that time the very same proposition contained in the amendments put by the Opposition to the House today. By way of interjection the honourable member for Wills said that his party did not have price control. Of course, it did not have price control on the terms that it wanted it. It tried to get price control from the people and did not get it. But the Labor Party still used the PJT in the way that it believed was an answer to the spiralling costs which we were finding in industry in this country and which were then passed on to the consumer. It was not an answer at all. It was a fiasco, as I said a moment ago. 
Labor's form of price control, which it is again trying to foist on this Parliament and on the community at large, is nothing more nor less than a hoax that is couched in terms that, I suppose, some might believe have validity. But, on close scrutiny, they certainly do not. There is a suggestion that the Government's action is letting industry off lightly and that industry by and large is being given an open order by the Government. Of course, that is totally wrong. When the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs presented to the House the proposals we are dealing with, the Press of this country quite clearly reported and quite properly indicated that industry would face price probes. I refer to the  Age  of 2 March. If one looks at the  Australian  of 2 March one sees the headline 'Tribunal to review industries'. In the  Canberra Times  there appeared the headline Tribunal to look at industry groups'. There is no question as to what the impact of the legislation is. There is no question at all as to the attitude of industry. Some industries perhaps would like to avoid this kind of scrutiny. The Government is not giving any open order to any section of industry at all. In fact it is doing what is practical and proper in the present economic situation to bring commonsense into what has been in many directions an ineffective operation that has required a lot of updating. 
Of course, when the Leader of the Opposition speaks in a few moments there is no doubt at all that he will continue this feeble fight to retain an old scarecrow- an old scarecrow that did not work and that did not frighten anyone when it was created by the Labor Administration. It has not been possible to utilise it since that time in any really worthwhile or effective manner, and the speech by the honourable member for Adelaide really admitted this. He failed completly to explain any useful result from the work of the PJT under the administration of the Labor Government during its occupancy of the treasury bench. Yet he told this House that we were taking something away and that this would affect the community. He went so far as to say that we have been lax and that the Government had given directions in the matter of the soap and detergent industries when there was one terrible fiasco soon after this Government came to power. He well knows that what he said this afternoon about that matter was totally inaccurate, totally wrong and totally misleading. If one goes back to a little before that time one recalls that certainly the issues were raised by the Joint Committee on Prices. When the matter was properly examined and elucidated it was found that some of the assertions by the honourable member for Adelaide and some of his colleagues at that time were totally wrong. Yet we hear them continuing to repeat these old catch cries that do not have validity. 
I said earlier that the scarecrow, as it can quite well be described, failed to achieve anything. It did not protect the crop- the crop being the growth of industry- so that it could produce and be nurtured so that there would be a benefit for those engaged in a particular industry, those who have invested in it, the work force that it employs and, of course, the consuming public, which, after all, has a very big stake in whatever we do in the field of industry and commerce. So tonight we find the Opposition again bringing out of the cupboard this rather worn out scarecrow. I am afraid the Leader of the Opposition will have the same sort of trouble that Pickering has with him in trying to make something out of what is not really there. I suggest that the amendments to the legislation proposed by the Government will advance further a sensible and progressive approach to the matter of a reasoned balance being achieved between economic policy, feasibility in terms of industry surveillance and useful assistance to industry, the Government and the community as a consequence of investigations which turn up information of value to determine what is best and to make suggestions in the matter of what will benefit the interests of the nation. 
This has been seen to a very large extent recently in the car industry. The manufacturing sector of the Australian motor industry has been a very vexed question in recent years. With the advent of the proposed world car, Australia is able to take advantage and get a foot in the door in what will be in the next decade, certainly in the first five years of that decade, a most exciting development for Australian industry. Australia will have one of the four 4-cylinder factories in the world operated by the General Motors organisation. Australia will export two-thirds of the production from that factory to Europe and other countries. That is the sort of industrial development that Australia needs. We can have it only if we have sensible instrumentalities in this country that can deal with inquiries into industries and sections of industries and report effectively on them. This legislation will greatly assist in that field. It is a new ball game for this country in the international scene as far as the development and progress of industry is concerned. We do not want to see it hobbled and held back by the administration of legislation which has become outdated and which has become merely a means of inhibiting the orderly, progressive development of business and industry in this country. 
I am sure that in the Committee stage there will be the opportunity to scrutinise some of the details which arise in the legislation in terms of particular clauses but, by and large, the legislation is a forward step. It is a tribute to the very hard work that has been put into this complicated matter by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who brings a practical view to these matters, who is able to consider the views of the average man in the street against those of. industry and commerce and who, as a consequence, is able to give leadership in this field that is quite outstanding. It certainly leaves far behind what we saw in the early days of the creation of this very doubtful monster which the Government is now endeavouring to turn to good use for the benefit of the total community. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to his statement last week regarding the handling and storage problems confronting the wheat industry, in which he said: 
One obvious conclusion is that it is essential that another port outlet for grain should be secured urgently in New South Wales. 
I ask the Minister Is that an added reason for the development of the Iluka port on the Clarence River to serve the northern and north-western wheat areas as an export outlet? Will the Minister confer with the New South Wales Government and also with his colleague the Minister for Transport on this important matter? 
-I am sure that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  would not desire to close the debate. But in view of the point that you have raised,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on behalf of the Government I am pleased to continue the debate on this very important issue. There is no question at all that once again the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has displayed his one-eyed approach to these matters. He has put to the House a whole range of references to past events and to decisions by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and he has put his own interpretation on them. This, I believe, is very much to the discredit of the honourable member for Port Adelaide and certainly does not reflect a responsible approach by the Opposition to this very important matter. 
First of all, let us recall what has occurred in the electricity industry in Australia. If we go back a very short time, we will recall that there was extreme industrial disruption in the industry in 
New South Wales. It was disruption of a nature that required weeks and weeks of difficult negotiation on the part of the then New South Wales Government in an endeavour to get the electricity workers back on the job. In the process, of course, the efforts of the trade union movement to break down the decision of the then New South Wales Government on this matter did not succeed. As a consequence, undoubtedly there was some degree of acceptance of the position by the unions concerned. Nevertheless, at that time they declared that they would continue their fight on this issue. Subsequently of course in Victoria there was the greatest industrial disruption for perhaps a decade in this particular industry, not on precisely the same issues, but on related issues. Yet the honourable member for Port Adelaide has chosen to use as evidence some out of context references to statements made by a commissioner of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to justify the action that has now been taken by the New South Wales Government. It is just not good enough for the Opposition to approach this matter in such a shabby way because undoubtedly the losers will be the public of this country. 
Looking at this matter in isolation, what has been said in respect of the customer in New South Wales? Not a single word has been said. The New South Wales Government is ignoring the customer in this issue. In other words, it is ignoring every pensioner, every person who is a low income earner, every small businessman in that State who is a consumer of electricity. It is ignoring completely the fact that there will be cost pressure within the electricity industry as a result of its decision to grant a 3 7  Vi  hour week. 
Here is another honourable member trying to justify this action on the very premise that I mentioned a moment ago, the premise of saying that some other very unsatisfactory situation is justification for this current action, when obviously it is not. I think the words of the honourable member for Port Adelaide were to the effect that the decision came as a matter of resolving the issue of productivity. The honourable member knows very well that he has twisted the truth in this matter. The reference from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission undoubtedly related to the impact of industrial disruption on the total community- the effect of a long period of industrial disruption in Victoria- and the need to get that part of Australia back into business again. 
Well, if that is the way in which we are looking at what productivity means, we are looking at it in a very lopsided fashion. So I say again that the Opposition is totally irresponsible in its approach to this matter. 
Of course in what the Opposition has said thus far it has ignored completely the Government's very responsible approach. The Government's wages policy is based on the need to correct a number of imbalances which still exist in our economy. Of course in criticising the Government's policy, the Opposition has consistently glossed over these imbalances because it was the Labor Party which largely was responsible for creating them. During Labor's term of office the growth of wages far outpaced that of productivity. The result was a dramatic increase in unemployment and inflation while investment and business confidence fell. It is essential for economic recovery that the reverse of what occurred then should occur now. That means keeping wage increases to a minimum as well as improving productivity. We cannot divorce this issue from that general premise, yet the Opposition pretends so to do. 
Under Labor, the share of the national product taken up by wages rose dramatically and the share taken up by industry's profits, of course, fell correspondingly. We will hear the catch cry that in recent times some industry or enterprise has shown an increase in profits. That is just not good enough. If we look in the broad at the balance sheet in terms of total industry in this country, it is still struggling under an economic malaise which has to be overcome. It can be overcome only if the Government's policy, recognised in part by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  is pursued. He has made a number of statements which in fact now recognise the need for such a policy, but an important section which claims to represent the trade union movement- I refer to the members of the Labor Party in this House and in the States- has failed to acknowledge what has been acknowledged by the  President  of the ACTU. That lets down the interests of every Australian and certainly of the people that the Opposition purports in the main to represent. 
Labor, when in government, has shown clearly that it has not a particular regard for a consistency in terms of economic policy. Statements made, even more recently, by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  strongly support such an assessment. So it is no surprise to find the very illogical support that is now being given to the move by the New South Wales Government, at the behest of its Premier,  Mr 
Wran, to take the drastic action of granting a 37te-hour week to this section of industry. It has been claimed that a range of other workers in this country already has a 37V4-hour week. 
-Or worse. When I say 'worse' I refer to a fact which must clearly be asserted and which cannot be glossed over- that many people who want to work cannot find jobs. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is always crying about this in the public arena, but those people are receiving a dismally low income simply because many of these industrial activities have occurred. So let us be frank: We cannot say that in some sections the benefits being derived are even greater, when we consider the other side of the score and discover that the level of unemployment today is such that hundreds and thousands are worse off. They will never be better off until this kind of stupid approach is held down, until such time as the imbalances to which I have referred have been effectively overcome. 
If we look at the New South Wales situation, it is quite evident that in that State electricity is certainly not cheap. The cost to the ordinary householder, when compared with that of several years ago, is escalating, and escalating fairly rapidly. 
The  Deputy  Leader Opposition claims that the escalation is less than that of the consumer price index. I say quite clearly that it would need to be, taking into account the benefits that flow from improved technology and the availability in New South Wales of high grade, easily mined coal. If it were not, there would be something wrong with the management of that industry. Therefore, let us just not refer to CPI figures. Let us consider the real facts about electricity generation, its cost structure and the lack of benefit that flows to the consumer. If we go back half a decade, five years only, costs have escalated simply because of the industrial situation in this industry. That adverse situation has impinged upon the prospects of the Electricity Commission and the other distributing authorities passing on benefits to industry and to the small person in that State. Industry is important, but as far as I am concerned the small person comes first. I have mentioned their position. 
Let us think of the situation in terms of industry. Industry is leaving New South Wales or not accepting opportunities to go to that State. A range of announcements has been made by the Premier seeking new industries for that State. They have all come to naught. At the end of a few weeks the industries have moved off to Queensland, or have not gone on with the proposition. We heard about an alumina plant. Where is it? What is happening about it? Reference was made to an experimental project on the conversion of coal to liquid fuel. What is happening about that? It is going to Queensland. Will the 3716-hour week in the electricity industry do anything to arrest that drift from the State of New South Wales? Of course it will not. Again it will be taken quite seriously as an indication of the industrial status of New South Wales, one that simply cannot stand up against that of other State in terms of basic costs for important major industries, particularly heavy industry. 
I put it to the House that the Government's stance in this matter is one of great significance and importance. If we are to overlook, and treat in a cursory way, this move by New South Wales- contrary to the assertions that already some sections are getting a similar benefit- there is no doubt at all that the pressure will well and truly be on to extend that benefit to other sections of industry. If the cost is tallied it will be seen to be enormous. If its effect is translated into the consquences for employment it will be seen as a great imposition indeed. This nation just cannot afford that sort of thing at this stage in the recovery of its economy- a recovery which is on the way but which at every turn is being attacked by the trade union movement, or sections of it. The Government's serious concern is based, quite properly, on assessments that have been referred to by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and very ably by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I am sure that later it will again be referred to by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  It is a vital fact of life that unless productivity can be raised, unless inflation can be kept down and a greater level of unemployment can be provided we will not see an end to the economic difficulties that confront this nation. We cannot confuse the two issues. 
Technology is, of course, changing and changing rapidly. If it is to be utilised for the benefit of the economy we certainly must withstand the pressure for it to be dragged down by the granting of concessions which will cost money, which will cost the community dearly and which will rob us of those benefits that could quite fairly flow, if given an opportunity to do so, to the benefit of the small man. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the 200-mile economic zone to be administered by Australia. Have all possible safeguards for the development of the Australian fishing industry been taken into account? Are formal agreements with foreign fishing interests being further considered pending zone declaration procedures in the interests of resource conservation and better assessment of the balanced local utilisation of recognised fishing zones? 
-The House has just heard a speech which I believe typifies the illogical, irresponsible and doubtless deliberate attitude of militant trade union leaders. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  styled himself as a former trade union official. He told this House of his great experience in that field, and then he purported to represent in this chamber that section of the community. I believe that his contribution tonight condemned competely the approach of the Opposition in this very important matter of industrial relations. It is all very well to refer to occurrences of which the community is well aware and to emphasise those in sharp contrast to accepting the fundamental responsibility which is the real purpose of the debate on this statement by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The import of the statement is quite clear, and I am sure that tonight the majority of Australians will see quite clearly what it is all about. It is about the fact that this Government is facing up to a situation deliberately contrived by militant sections of the trade union movement, in particular the Transport Workers Union and a section of the Miscellaneous Workers Union, which are disrupting enormous sections of industry and, in the course of events, inconveniencing and taking away the livelihood of many people in the work force in this country. The honourable member for Burke has failed to recognise that. All he is concerned about is the issue of pressure tactics. Apparently he is dedicated to the belief that industrial disruption is the right way to approach the aspirations of the unions in certain matters, but he tried to cover that up by saying that there is provision for arbitration and conciliation. If that provision exists, why are the unions failing to use that avenue properly to determine what they want and to abide by a proper decision when it is made? Why are they failing to put their case and play the game, so to speak, in this important matter? 
The unions are not doing that these days. In so many directions they are ignoring the right procedures in industrial relations. They are ignoring the right that was hard won over so many years to have a proper system in this country for the progressive improvement of conditions for the worker, the progressive consideration of the various opportunities for workers to better their lot. In so doing, they are undermining the real prospects of the majority of the workers of this country. So the Government has a responsibility to face up to this issue, and of course it is doing that on a proper basis. Firstly, in relation to areas of employment where the Commonwealth has appropriate legal power relating to terms and conditions of employment, within the full limit of these powers a firm stand has been adopted. In the circumstances where wage claims and claims regarding terms and conditions are being pressed through bans, limitations and other disruptive industrial action, the Government's policy now provides: No work as directed; no pay. That is fair enough. That is what the majority of Australians believe, and the majority of Australians very determinedly supported the Government which occupies the Treasury Bench on this premise. Secondly, in regard to standdowns and applications for standdowns, suspension clauses are to be inserted in awards where they do not exist. 
The Government believes that its action deserves the support of the employers, particularly in the industries directly concerned. I have no doubt that the stand that has been taken as a consequence of the statement made to this House by the Minister will be supported by the employers. The Minister for Industrial Relations has said that the hean of the problem is that the unions are taking industrial action of one kind or another prior to or during a hearing of their claims by a responsible tribunal. This afternoon and tonight we have heard the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  and the honourable member for Burke completely contradict the truth of this matter. They have asserted that the Government is taking action which is forcing the issue. It is doing nothing of the sort. The issue is being forced, and forced very determinedly, by those unions which are failing to use the proper procedures that are open for them so to use. I believe that it ill becomes the Opposition to use this House as a forum merely to peddle further political propaganda in the way it has done this evening. The Opposition has said tonight that the Government's approach interferes with proper progressive industrial power. It does not. On the contrary, the move that the Government is making gives the opportunity for those engaged in the respective industries to have a say in their own affairs in a proper manner. If their own leadership is not giving them that chance, this Government, through the action it is taking, undoubtedly will give a greater chance to the majority of workers to assert their views, their rights and their aspirations. 
It was asserted that the Government is applying pressure to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Likewise, that is a deliberate denial of the truth. This Government has enunciated its policy very clearly. It believes in a system of proper conciliation and arbitration, and all it is doing is giving the opportunity for that system to be used in a more effective manner with the support of the appellants, in this case the employers. There is no other proper democratic course of action; yet the Opposition is using crocodile tears and extravagant words to suggest that the Government is overstepping the mark in this matter. I believe that the Government has not acted swiftly enough or forcefully enough up to this point. I commend the Minister and those on the treasury benches who are supporting him for taking this very positive action to ensure that there is recognition of the problem and that a situation is created where that recognition can be carried through in an effective manner in the interests of the members of trade unions in particular, of the industries in which there are difficulties, and of the wider community, which after all is vitally important. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that we should talk to the Commonwealth car drivers and consider what we are doing to them. He said that we are not letting them force the issue so that can get what they want. A number of drivers have said to me over the last few weeks that they do not agree with what is occurring. They would prefer to be doing their jobs and picking up their pay envelopes and picking up the benefits of the overtime that they can gain at weekends. Instead, they have to bow down to a militant leadership which is denying them the right to continue to work while the issues are dealt with in the proper venue. Of course, they are well aware that some of the moves made in this direction over the last year have not succeeded. The honourable member for Port Adelaide this afternoon used words that suggested that every time this kind of pressure is applied the outcome has been the granting of demands. He referred to those engaged in sections of Australia Post and, from my memory of what he said, Telecom Australia. Certainly he referred to shearers and a number of other sections. 
The truth is that they did not get all that they were demanding. There were settlements, of course- settlements made as a consequence of the enormous pressure from both sides of the argument. But if that is the way that we are to settle industrial problems in this country hence forth, Heaven help the country, Heaven help the economy and Heaven help everyone who has to rely upon some cohesive situation in terms of the operations of essential services, particularly transport, where all sorts of factors arise. Mention was made earlier of the effect of this strike in Victoria on essential foodstuffs- milk supplies and the like. We recall the effect of the transport workers' bans and strikes during the last year. On a number of occasions they in fact put at risk the lives of other Australians because of the lack of air transport at times, the difficulty of getting blood plasma from one part of the country to another and the difficulty for people who are ill and requiring medical attention to be able to travel from one part of the country to another. These are the issues that arise but which are glossed over in this argument which so far as the Opposition is concerned is merely contriving to throw some kind of blockage in the way of the Government's determination to implement a fair and reasonable policy at a time when it is sadly needed by the Australian community. 
I am sure that in the process of events over the next few days we will have further double talk from those who have a direct responsibility in this matter. We have seen the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  in the last 24 hours attempt to deny the facts. He said that if pressure were applied through the action that has been foreshadowed in the ministerial statement it would damage industrial relations in this country. He knows perfectly well that that damage has already been done. It ill becomes him to try to pretend that he and others in the ACTU and the unions involved did not know that this was the risk that they would run while ever this kind of disruption was entertained. They know very well that the Government announced months ago that it would take this action if the unions proceeded to press their claims in the way that they were doing and to put at risk the interests of this country. 
The Government's approach to this matter is not only timely, it is also certainly justified. It is an approach that affects the community very deeply because there can be a factor of time in reaching a settlement as a consequence of the procedures that are involved. There can be a serious disruption on a continuing basis because action of this kind cannot be taken quickly or overnight. But if the long haul of strikes and bans of the sort that were referred to by a previous speaker, who gave a very good account of what had occurred particularly on the part of the Transport Workers Union, are to continue, then there is no other course of action. The effects on the community are becoming so serious and so widespread that no responsible government can ignore them. I am sure that this Government certainly does not intend to do so. I support very strongly the policy announcement that has been made by the Minister for Industrial Relations. I support the action the Government is taking in this matter and I deprecate as strongly as I can the ineffective defence that has been put up in this debate by the Opposition. 
-The debate on the report of the Select Committee on Tourism and the Government's ministerial statement is a most important one not only for the tourist industry but also for all sections of the Australian community. It is important because there is nothing that involves people to a greater extent than tourism. This involvement has engendered, and will continue to engender, a great deal of community participation, interest and debate on the various issues that were raised in the report, were referred to in the statement and which have been highlighted in the debate in this House. There is no doubt that the Select 
Committee served a very useful purpose. As a member of that Committee I wish to congratulate the original  chairman,  the former honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  the  Chairman  who brought down the report, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  and other members of the Committee from both sides of the House. They worked assiduously to try to produce an objective and useful document for the benefit of tourism in Australia. 
It was obvious that there would have to be a very extensive catalogue of the recommendations. These recommendations, which are appended to the material which has come before the House- the report and other documents- are now well understood by most sections of the tourist industry. More recently, some disappointment has been expressed because there was not an immediate implementation of all of the recommendations. I wish to remind some members of the Opposition who have spoken in the debate that there is no panacea for this or other matters. A progressive approach is required and one would expect a positive response from the Government. This is reflected very clearly in the ministerial statement. The very basis of the Government's response was summed up in the words of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  when he said: 
Tourism is a very significant Australian industry. It is already of considerable economic and social consequence. Even more important, however, are its prospects for growth. 
This industry has the potential to bring major benefits in improving the balance of payments, generating employment opportunities in both country and city areas, and improving cultural contact between Australian and overseas societies. 
That, broadly, is the Government's policy. From this, of course, flows various ambits of administration which touch upon the proper and orderly approach to further steps to build up tourism in Australia, to encourage the things outlined in the statement to which I have referred, and to recognise the care that has to be taken in following various matters through to an effective conclusion. The Minister for Industry and Commerce has a particular role, as has the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Treasurer (  Mr Howard).  Each of these Ministers has already acknowledged clearly, and has begun to take steps which support, the contention of the Select Committee on Tourism and its recommendations. 
I wish to refer firstly to the enormous task undertaken by the Minister for Transport in tackling what was one of the toughest problems confronting tourism, that of the nature of air fares and the relationships between this country and, I think, 39 or 40 other countries as well as the problem of the internal transport situation. In a very short space of time we have seen a revolution in this field. There has been some criticism. I was astonished to hear the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  making what could be described only as surprising criticism because, as a former Minister and a member of this House with vast experience, he knows better than anyone the complexities involved in this matter. I believe that the Minister for Transport, acting on behalf of the Government, in the last six months has taken steps unprecedented in the previous approach to tourism in Australia. 
We heard criticism from the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that one cannot now get out of the country. There was a complaint that a single inquiry in North America had not immediately resulted in a seat being offered to the person making the inquiry. Surely that indicates that things are on the move. If there is a demand of the sort described, is that not a forward step? The whole premise upon which this new era of air fares is based is the encouragement of greater movement into and naturally it must follow, out of Australia. It would be very nice if it could be one way, if everyone could come in to our benefit. But in order to build up tourism for the benefit of this nation we must participate in a two-way process. I believe that the tough negotiations which have been undertaken have displayed clearly, not only to the Australian community, but also to so many countries around the world which have a stake in tourism, that we mean business. I believe this is one of the most successful actions thus far taken in the field of tourism by any government. 
It would be very interesting to have given in this House tonight the statistics on movements which have resulted so far from the new air fare structure that has been and is still being implemented. Of course there will be teething problems. There will be some discomfort in one area or another. That is unavoidable. But one must recognise very clearly that the achievements on the scoreboard are tremendous. This development has opened the way for Australia to participate in international tourism in a way that only a year or two ago people would have believed impossible. There will follow, no doubtwith the use of more sophisticated equipment in the form of wide-bodied aircraft and such things, and with due consideration of all the commercial requirements- an effective, progressive growth of tourism. 
The role of the States in tourism was mentioned. I think the honourable member for 
Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  raised the matter of an enormously publicised conference called by the Premier of New South Wales at which he announced that there would have to be immediate action to make available new international hotel accommodation, a step up in all sorts of directions, and that his Government would take the initiative in this matter. The astounding thing is that from that day onwards we have not heard a single word about it. He criticised the Federal Government for its failure to do enough about tourism, as he put it. It is interesting that with this big increase in the flow of tourists into this country accommodation of a high standard is available. It is being taxed to the limit no doubt. To suggest that this Government's administration did not realise what could be done with existing facilities, and to deny that there was under-utilisation, is to show very clearly the inept approach to tourism on the part of one State. 
I cannot speak of the position in other States. I have not had the opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge, but I do know that in my own State of New South Wales, in my own electorate, where there is an enormous tourist industry with great potential, there is still scope for many beds to be used. There is a lot of space in existing accommodation which gradually is being utilised. But more can be done if further action is taken by the State authorities to capitalise on what has been done as a result of the new air fares provided as a consequence of international negotiations on the part of this Government. 
I do not want to dwell solely on this matter. The development in the whole ambit of tourism is a consequence of an enormous revolution. It can be described only as that. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism engendered throughout Australia a new approach. Many hours were spent hearing witnesses from various tourist authorities at State level, many departments which had a stake in tourism. I must say that month by month, over a long period during the hearings of the Committee one could not help but notice that the old approach, the somewhat rundown and worn out attitude: That we could not do anything about this and that it would be too difficult to do something about that gave way to a realisation that it was necessary to establish facts, figures and a plan. Many State authorities were forced into some real action in regard to tourism. 
It was not just a matter of crying for more funds from some source or another; it was a matter of applying some planning of approach to this matter. When one analyses the report of the Select Committee, and takes the recommendations one by one, one sees embodied in it a very comprehensive account, a very positive proposition. Without doubt it contains answers to many of the questions that remained unanswered for so many years before this Government took the steps to implement the inquiry into the tourist industry. Of course, those who are disappointed that something is not done in one particular area or another will immediately say that the Government conducted the inquiry but it has not taken action. 1 think it must be recognised that the tourist industry is one of the significant private enterprise industries of this nation. It is not a matter of what governments should do. Governments can assist and provide all sorts of encouragement and incentives. But it stops at that. It is for the entrepreneurs, the people in the business of tourism, to push it and to push it hard. They now have that opportunity, and this Government has done a great deal to make that possible. 
In the matter of finance, I mentioned that the Treasurer has a key role to play. I have no doubt that as our economy improves so will prospects improve for the infusion of more capital and the provision of more assistance and incentives of the sort which have been proposed which would further advance tourism. Limited and all as they are at this stage, they give a great basis for a viable, effective and useful tourist industry in this country. I am sure that the House, by a vast majority, recognises what has been done and applauds the work of the Committee and the stance taken by the Government in this important matter. 
-I refer the Treasurer to criticism of the Government's economic policies by the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union. Has the Treasurer had an opportunity of assessing the criticism, and could he comment to the House upon it? 
-The Bill before the House follows the announcement last week by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  of the Government's approach to economic needs. It is a very straightforward and clear piece of legislation. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  expressing criticism on false promises. It is extraordinary to find the honourable member for Adelaide so naive in this matter. He says that the Government has approached this legislation without due regard to the implications, but he put no case to back up his argument. In point of fact, his criticism really was extraordinary. He used the extravagant words: 'The total package has destroyed the last vestige of credibility of the Government'. He then went on to say that it would increase unemployment. I have got a very vivid recollection of the previous Administration of which he was a prominent member. Overnight it removed tariffs and allowed the flood of goods into this country which robbed an enormous number of Australians of their jobs. It was estimated at the time that 50,000 jobs were lost overnight. The Whitlam Administration came under challenge and it finally conceded that it had taken the wrong action.  (Quorum formed).  Following the disaster of the Whitlam Government's policy in the matter of tariffs the present Government undertook a complete review. The House is well aware of its very proper approach in this matter which has resulted in a more evenhanded accountability. This has produced a better system. In particular, the Government has taken into consideration the special needs of many areas in regard to customs tariff matters. 
All that this Bill does is to introduce a minimal duty of 2 per cent on a range of goods which are presently imported free of customs duty. If we consider the effect on our economy of imports, the pricing of goods and local production, there is no doubt that the Government has taken a proper approach from a revenue raising point of view in introducing a 2 per cent level of duty on a number of goods. It has done that without imposing on costs, without weighting the cost factor in commerce and industry but at the same time maintaining the exemption of goods from certain countries. I refer to arrangements with New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and other developing countries which are covered under special provisions. In addition, motor components and some imports have a particular relationship to special arrangements that have been made for production in major manufacturing sectors in this country. 
It is surprising to hear the honourable member for Adelaide admit that he is so poorly informed on the total spectrum of tariffs that he is unable to recognise the validity of what the Government is doing. There is every justification for the actions that have been taken. It was suggested that there has not been a proper inquiry and that the Industries Assistance Commission has not played a proper role in the lead-up to the 
Government's decision in this matter. Nothing could be further from the truth. As the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  will no doubt tell the House at a later stage, the decision is very much in line with the Government 's policy of seeing that there is a proper, evenhanded approach to all aspects of customs tariffs. For this reason, I strongly support the measure. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Health. I refer to the introduction earlier this year of the Isolated Patients' Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme. Has this highly successful health care facility given equality of treatment to thousands of country residents, both children and adults? Has a further relaxation of conditions of travel been introduced to overcome some anomolies in the scheme? Can the Minister inform the House of the details of the revised conditions under which assistance to patients will be provided? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the effect of the strike of two months or more at grain loading terminals in Western Australian ports. Can the Minister indicate what impact this industrial problem is having on Australia's export trade in wheat and on the wheat industry throughout Australia? 
-The Parliament is debating the industrial and wages policy announced tonight by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The Minister in his statement to the House, initiated in a very clear and positive manner some new and, I believe, positive approaches to what we require in this country to meet the present situation. I have listened hopefully to the contributions firstly by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  then by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  no less, followed by others, including the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  One must express great disappointment because in no way did they contribute in a worthwhile manner to the debate or to the substance of it. The Minister said quite correctly:   the Australian economy has been improving for some time now. But ... the ability of any government to shape the directions of the economy is limited by the attitudes and actions of the individual groups within it. Nowhere is this more apparent than in industrial relations. 
If we cast our minds back only a few months to the actions of the unions of this country in so many facets of industrial relations it is not difficult at all to understand the assertion made by the Minister in his statement to the House. I ask honourable members how often they have listened in their own constituencies to honest down-to-earth Australians- the real workers, who perhaps are employed in the railways, in a sawmill or in an abattoir or something of that sort- saying in typical Australian fashion: 'We don't want more wages just to see prices rise again'. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
-I expected a chorus from my friends opposite but if they are honest they will admit that the vast body of opinion of unionists- the real workers of this nation- is that they do not want to see a continuation of this simple treadmill process. The submissions made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by the Government and by the employers are in sharp contrast to the approach of the unions, and the Government and employers have made a clear case in this regard. It is for that reason that we have seen very commendable adjustments to the procedures and to the processes during the past 24 to 36 months. However, it is lamentable that each time we see some positive approach the rug is pulled out by that section of the participants in arbitration disputes who will not agree to a positive plan. 
Let us just consider what it all means. The Government tonight has again enunciated a positive approach to a real problem. It has not been an attack at all, despite the assertions and the wild statements made particularly by the Leader of the Opposition. The statement by the Minister was logical and factual and was a very considered appraisement of the situation. I put it to the House that we have a complex system and that we recognise the difficulties which arise between those awards that come under Federal jurisdiction and those that come under State jurisdiction. It behoves us all to accept the responsibility to recognise the ingredients of this great issue of the economy, of industrial relations, of productivity and of wages accounted for in an effective and proper manner. When we think back to the Labor Government of 1973-75 we remember a departure from responsibility. Inflation escalated very rapidly to the 1 7 per cent level. As the Leader of the Opposition said tonight, or maybe it was the honourable member for Gellibrand, the only recourse, of course, was to go into indexation and go into it so strongly and so willingly, that that treadmill became not just a treadmill, but a real whirl of - 
-' Absolute nonsense', the honourable member for Gellibrand says. Well, I must be hitting the point because obviously if the honourable member regards that statement as nonsense he is contradicting the very statement he made to this House only a few short minutes ago. 
Of course, the approach of the Government is consistent and is in the interests of all sections of the community. It takes into account a very telling statement made many years ago by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Deakin,  when the early birth of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was at issue. He said: 
No measures ever submitted to any legislature offer greater prospects of the establishment of social justice and the removal of inequalities . . . 
Today, we are striving under a government that has the responsibility and is prepared to accept it, to look after all sections of the community and to try to dispense justice for all. So we have to think in terms of a fair wage. Of course, we also have to think in terms of the effect of excessive wages on other sections of the community- those on fixed incomes, those on pensions, those who are self-employed, the farmer, the businessman who cannot pass on higher costs because there is no one to pass them on to, and those who are dependent on world markets and therefore have no way of passing on increased costs, particularly if these increased costs are a direct result of industrial disputation, of pressure or of action by militants who make demands and fight to the bitter end to achieve those demands. 
This debate is all about exactly those issues but I have not noticed any acknowledgment of them at all by the speakers of the Opposition, let alone their chief spokesman, that master of all these issues, the honourable member for Port Adelaide. In fact he made one of the weakest contributions that I have ever heard in this House on these kinds of issues. Yet the honourable member boasted about speaking to employer and employee groups. He asked questions as to why representatives of the Government did not address the biennial conference of the ACTU. I challenge him: Did the honourable member in fact initiate an invitation for that to occur? Of course he did not, and of course he would not; he would hate that to happen. Yet the honourable member is someone who would be in a position to suggest and probably succeed in winning acceptance of such a proposition. 
One is reminded immediately of what happened only a few short weeks ago. I refer to that very serious dispute, the Telecom dispute. For weeks, bans were imposed which seriously disrupted public services in this country and of course - 
-I would rather tell the honourable member exactly what resulted from a statement from the Bench. I refer to the determination of the Commission which called on the unions to lift their bans. A certain period was allowed for this to be done. It did not occur. The consequence was that the Government, having given every opportunity to the leaders of the union movement and the officials of the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association to get the bans lifted, had no recourse other than to introduce and bring into effect legislation which had been passed by this Parliament to deal with just that kind of situation. But we know that supported by the Labor Party and supported by the ACTU no such move was made. When we look at the effect of that, it is little wonder that the Government has the responsibility of moving further in the field of industrial relations, of proposing further action to try to bring about a more responsible approach to the industrial problems of this country. If we think of the situation just in general terms - 
-Whoever it is interjecting says: 'Tell us about Queensland'. I notice that the effect there was the very speedy resignation of a senior union official named Williams, who was not even game to stay in office until the legislation proposed in that State was enacted. He got out so rapidly that obviously he had something to hide; he had some reason to escape before the legislation was even debated in the Queensland Parliament. Quite frankly, I think we might see even more departures within the trade union movement. We have seen Ducker, we have seen one after another, leaving, running off, deserting the ship- and of course, for obvious reasons. I will not say that all the reasons are the same, but it is very interesting that these things have occurred. 
The Labor Party and some of the union leaders say that the Government pokes its nose into industrial situations to draw attention away from what they describe as failures on the part of the Government. What they are referring to is the very difficult economic situation which has existed for some time but which the Government has in fact managed to a far better extent than the Labor Party was able even to try to manage. If we think of the benefit, the advantage, of that to every worker in this country, it gives the lie direct to the rubbish, the statistical rubbish, that was dished out by the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Gellibrand and the honourable member for Port Adelaide about what the workers are losing. If they were realistic they would admit that the prosperity in this country by and large is very much better than it was even five years ago under Labor. 
Opposition members smile, but of course the only way in which they could rescue the worker from the depths of despair at the time of the 17 per cent inflation rate which I mentioned earlier, was to have quarterly indexation and spiralling wages of the kind that did enormous damage to the economy of this country. There was no other course. One has to accept that it was the effect of bad economic management that introduced that very difficult situation which sent us rocketing out of the markets of the world in terms of being able to retain markets, to gain new ones and to see productivity even held. The fall in productivity at that time was a blow to the labour market of this country. The blow was so great that record unemployment set in. 
Well, the honourable member for Melbourne,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is well known for having very little capacity in these matters, despite his experience in the trade union movement. If he is not able to recognise and to register that it was the fall in productivity due to the matters that I mentioned a moment ago that had the greatest impact on the creation of vast unemployment in this country, he ought to give up and go home, go back to wherever he came from. 
The Government's proposals, as outlined by the Minister for Industrial Relations in his statement to Parliament, make a rational approach, as I said earlier, to the nation's second most serious problem. Of course, the economy and inflation are problem No. 1, but the second great issue is the one that this House is debating tonight. I hope that as a consequence of the debate and the contributions made to it, we will see, on the part of the unions that have some real recognition of the facts of the situation, a more realistic approach and that the militants- men such as Halfpenny, who has been mentioned in this debate tonight, and so many others- will not be seen as the leaders of the ACTU. I hope that, despite the limitations of the present leadership, the leaders will not come from the men in the group from the Left who are making such a divisive stand against sensible unionism at the present time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the long-standing concern of the Australian tanning industry at the restrictions placed by Japan on imports of Australian leather? Is it correct that Japan has agreed to allow leather from the United States of America into its market but that no similar arrangement applies to Australia? 
-The Budget, whilst tough and uncompromising in its anti-inflationary intent, provides for lower tax rates from December and twice yearly pension increases. Business and industry are assisted with the increased retention allowances for trading or business income- up from 60 per cent to 70 per cent- and tax depreciation on buildings for tourist accommodation has been introduced for the first time. Tax concessions to encourage energy conservation are also of great significance. The bench-mark for assessing Budgets differs from the position which existed a few years ago. When inflation is low and near full employment is possible the Budget criteria are vastly different from the present situation of acute inflationary pressures. A few years ago a good Budget was one that was popular with the community. Today a good Budget is one that recognises and responds in a realistic way to the nation's problems and needs, whether or not that response is popular. There is a tendency to judge Budgets on the basis of 'What's in it for me?', based on the idea that handouts are the main expectancy. On balance, this year's Budget is fair to all sections of the community. 
In this debate two weeks ago the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Leo McLeay)  delivered his maiden speech. I congratulate him on the content of his speech. In fact, if one looks at the record of speeches that have been delivered thus far in this Budget debate they will see that at least the honourable member has been honest in his references to the enormous cost of providing social security benefits in this country today. The honourable member cited some very pertinent figures. He indicated, for example, that the number of people supported for every thousand taxpayers today is vastly greater than it was 10 years ago. I believe that the Budget and its import, in addition to the economic climate, have to be considered separately from the stance of what are the inescapable demands of responsibilities upon the government of the day, and the area of social security is certainly one of them. 
The Budget is designed to reduce inflation and promote sound and broadly based economic growth, to provide incentives for both individuals and business within a reasonable framework of the longer term economic growth requirement and, of course, to reduce significantly the demands of government on the country's financial markets. If we are to reduce the deficit to a sensible level, there is a very great need to ensure that finance is not just pumped in to bridge the gap and to meet the deficit each financial year. The current Budget extends the Government's commitment to assist the needy and the disadvantaged. It will equip Australia to succeed in a world environment of rising inflation and intensifying competition. It is for that reason also that there are special provisions for export incentives, special provisions to take account of what must be regarded as a sound business approach to the needs of the total economy. 
Inherent in all of this is the responsibility of turning attention to employment. Of course, there is vast unemployment, an unacceptable level of unemployment, unemployment that worries the Government and any thinking Australian. It is pleasing to see that there has been an improvement in terms of new and permanent jobs which, of course, is one of the main aims of the present Government. Employment has started to increase. During the past year 64,000 new jobs have been taken up in civilian employment. This is in contrast with the Government's positive policy of holding down the size of the Public Service. There are obvious and sound reasons for that policy. Productive sections of business, industry, mining and rural pursuits have started to expand job opportunities. Job training schemes which are financed by the Government's various proposals and which are now in operation have helped nearly 500,000 people to get permanent jobs. About half a million people are better trained for employment in this country. Of course, unemployment continues to be the biggest single problem with which the Government is faced. It has brought stability to the economy by sticking firmly to the policies of economic restraint. Growth and productivity are now being encouraged by these measures, which will certainly help to boost employment. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  made criticisms and used the phony story about increased taxation. It is interesting that apparently he and so many others have just discovered that even though tax rates will be reduced there will be a greater collection of taxation. There is no mystery about that. It is being asserted that people will be paying higher taxes. This is not the case. More people getting jobs, more people with higher pay and the total spectrum of this progression means that the total tax revenue will increase, but of course, the Government's outlay will increase at the same time. The important consideration is just where the deficit has been accounted for in this situation. The internal deficit will be down to about $800m. This is a tremendous achievement. There is no doubt at all that one salient point which worries the Opposition is that the Government has been able to produce a Budget which gives us a real chance of beating the deficit, of getting the deficit to a manageable size. Succeeding Budgets can be foreseen as the means of getting rid of this enormous deficit which has been a burden on the economy for five years or so. 
There is no doubt that events since the Budget was announced have proved conclusively that the community is conscious of what is occurring. If we want any real evidence of that, let us look at the situation in South Australia where there was a massive election campaign a few weeks ago with emphasis by the Labor Party on unemployment and by other sections of the community on the very elements of this Budgetwhat it was doing and what it could do- and the need for State administrations to complement the approach being made by the Federal Government. The ballot box revealed that the people see very clearly what is best for Australia. 
-I understand that he was rather hesitant about it in certain respects. He wanted to be there to be the knocker of the Federal Government, but that was a dismal failure. We now know the result, lt is very interesting to recall that many assertions have been made in this House of broken promises by the Government. In truth, this Government has an excellent record. Let us have a look at that record. Let us look at some of the promises that have been kept. We promised major tax reforms and they have occurred. If the policy of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  were still in operation, the total level of taxation would be astronomical compared to the present level under the reformed tax system that has been implemented by this Government. There were many other promises, and they have been kept. We promised to help local government. This has had an enormously useful effect on every home owner, every average citizen in this country. It is an effect for the better because it has helped to hold down rates. It has helped so many communities by enabling betterment schemes to be introduced, employment giving schemes to be implemented by local authorities. That is a promise which this Government made and kept. In the next Budget it will raise still further its allocation to local government. A firm undertaking in that direction has been given. Many other facets of the Budget are helping small business, farmers and the average citizen. I believe that that is being very widely recognised. I have never known a Budget of which there was so little criticism. 
The Opposition has been striving ever since the Budget was brought down to find some valid criticism. It has failed dismally to do that. I remember that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  made a powerful speech, I think in the second week in August, just before the Budget was introduced. The theme of the speech was that it is too late for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to smarten up. He caught the headlines with that speech. He spoke about all sorts of dire consequences for the economy and so on but I am afraid that his thesis has suffered a very severe denting and he is not able to sustain the assertions that he made at that time. 
In summary, some of the most important provisions of the Budget are that, as I mentioned a moment ago, the income tax surcharge will end on 1 December and that twice-yearly indexation of pensions has been restored. These are two great issues that the Opposition has used in the past year notwithstanding the reasons and the background for the Government's decision to maintain the tax surcharge at the end of June. The reasons, of course, were quite clear. They have proved to be valid reasons. They have proved to be in the best interests of all sections of the community. I mentioned that there will be additional help for the tourist industry. 
I believe that it is one area in which we find a very great need to look at the total scene. There was a clamour for the reduction of air fares for flights to and from Australia. A very great deal of credit deservedly goes to the Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  for achieving a reduction. There was a lot of criticism of his actions in the early stages of his negotiations, but now we see the results of that endeavour paying off. The figures speak for themselves. The inflow of overseas tourists into this country has already begun to give the economy of tourist areas, particularly the north coast of New South Wales, a very useful and timely boost. Only at the weekend I saw figures produced by the tourist authority at Port Macquarie which show very clearly that there has been an impact on tourism in that area. It is proper that the Government decided it was timely to provide an incentive in this Budget for the construction of tourist accommodation in Australia. A provision for tax depreciation on buildings to accommodate tourists has been provided for the first time. 
Perhaps it could be said that the rural sector was not given a vast handout on this occasion. But the provision of funds has been sustained and there has been an increase for roads, local government and for some other specific purposes. In addition, the special allowance for grain storage on farms was introduced to cope with the enormous stock of grain that one finds throughout Australia at present. On top of that, $2 1 5m was provided for export incentives. Much of this will assist industries beyond the primary industry field. It has to be remembered that if trade around the world is to be encouraged, effectively and usefully, we should take into account not just one or two items but should encompass a broader approach. Whereas these incentives apply to specific industries, they are also indirectly assisting other industries from which bulk commodities flow to overseas markets and a build up of Australian commercial enterprise and activity throughout the whole of the export field. If we think in terms of the development of our great mineral and other resources, we see that what is being done, encouraged by the Government's approach to the economy, is of tremendous significance. Already we are seeing useful results so far as employment and the economy are concerned. 
In the short time available in a debate of this kind one is not able to refer in great detail to a great range of matters. One matter of significance that I do want to mention is the Government's sustained support for education. I mention this because I have found some sections of the community being flooded with propaganda which asserts that the present Government has cut funds for education. If we make an appraisal of total funding for education it can be seen that the criticism is unfounded and misleading. Undoubtedly the criticism is politically motivated and quite deliberately activated. In the last three financial years recurrent funds for all government schools in Australia rose by 17 per cent in real terms after adjustment for inflation. However, school enrolments in that same period rose by only 3 per cent. Therefore, per student there has been a huge increase in public spending thus enabling a further major expansion in education. In the six-year period of 1972 to 1978 the government school teacher work force- that is all governments- increased by 3 1 per cent while the student population rose by only 6 per cent. Our pupil-teacher ratio is now comparable with that of any other country. That is not a bad achievement. 
During the past decade capital expenditure on government schools has aggregated $4,000m. That is the sum invested by tax payers in the education system. The resource targets set by the Australian Schools Commission have been passed and in some instances are running two years ahead of time. When we consider total funding for education including recurrent funding, we find that 5.6 million taxpayers in Australia are contributing no less than $6,000m a year to education. That is about $1,000 for the taxpayer. I think that the taxpayer's contribution deserves to be recognised. One hears a lot of criticism of the cost of health services and the cost of contributions if one is fully covered in a medical fund. One can completely cover one's family under a health scheme for all eventualities for less than $ 1 ,000 a year. There are other comparisons that could and should be made. 
One hears little of what might be termed effective evaluation. It is not a matter of comparing one thing with the other and saying one is more important than the other. I rate health and education as being pretty equal basic needs in this community and pretty equal basic rights. I think that if there is to be justice for all then these two areas should be seen in parallel and should be given some recognition in unison. It is for that reason that I mentioned those figures in today's debate. 
I conclusion I want to say that the Government has acted courageously in this Budget and in the two preceding Budgets introduced in this Parliament. I am sure that the results speak for themselves. We have seen an improvement in the economy to the benefit of all sections of the community. We have real hope for the future. That hope seemed a long way off only a comparatively short time ago. It will be seen to grow in abundance as a reward for those who support the philosophy of the Government at this time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Bill before the House seeks to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is one of the most significant pieces of legislation that this House has dealt with in the current session. The amendments in order of their importance relate, first of all, to the prohibition of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission from ordering or recommending or sanctioning in any way an employer paying wages to an employee for time worked, or time not worked which is what it really should say, when the employee was engaged in industrial action. We know that this simply means that the Government takes the view that there should be no pay if there is no work during a strike; nothing more and nothing less. 
The second vital amendment provides for expeditious hearing of stand-downs or applications for stand-downs either before a single member of the Commission or the Full Bench. This is a vital need in overhauling the present provisions of the Act. Thirdly, the Bill provides that the question of whether an industrial dispute exists be the subject of reference to a Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and then it enables an industrial dispute, or part of an industrial dispute, to be referred to the Full Bench for conciliation. It does so for very good reasons. It is patently clear that events of recent months and events of this day necessitate the Government's taking a firmer stand in regard to industrial laws in this country. What we require is a positive move towards a reinstatement of effective conciliation and arbitration. 
We heard in the House earlier today the views of the Opposition in relation to this matter. I was disappointed to hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is steeped in these industrial matters, make a contribution that was lamentable. He had no proposition to put and no alternative to offer, but he asserted that the Government was moving towards confrontation. Has he forgotten that confrontation began months ago, that this nation has been held up to ransom by the most blatant actions of milltant trade unions and that we have seen the employer, the public and the community at large - 
More than held to ransom. They have been taken right to the cleaners in relation to this matter. What we want to see is the restoration of effective conciliation and arbitration. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports says: 'We won't get it through this legislation'. We on this side of the House know full well that his friends of the Left- no doubt he will express their views shortly; he is their spokesman in this House- will tell us that the Carmichaels and the Halfpennys of this world are dedicated Australians. We know that they are dedicated to dragging this nation down in any way that they can. We see their actions week by week and month by month. We know also that the Labor Party is currently very much in the clutches of that section of the trade union movement, as evidenced by the decisions of the Adelaide conference of the Australian Labor Party. 
When honourable members think in terms of the precise provisions of this legislation it is a matter of the Government placing priorities where they ought to be. The Government attempted to have consultations through the National Labour Consultative Council. Despite what was said by the honourable member for Port Adelaide this afternoon, the employees were not present at those discussions. They had every opportunity to be there, but in line with the industrial action that was envisaged at that time by the union movement, the employees boycotted that particular meeting of the NLCC. Why did the employees do that? They did it because once again they believed that confrontation, a militant approach, would be one means of scaring the employer and the Government. That tactic did not work. Today Australia has learnt with dismay of a further decision by the Telecom unions which threatens once again the telecommunications network of this country. Notwithstanding the decision of State branches of the union body over the past week- two States voted not to proceed with the industrial action that was proposed - 
-Does the honourable member not know what they are? I am sorry; of course he does. He is wanting to draw attention to them. They are two of the better States- the States of Queensland, I believe, and Western Australia. 
The honourable member has a very great interest in the State of Queensland. But we find the hard core unionists in the State of New South Wales and the State of Victoria wanting to go ahead with militant action. We must recall that only a matter of a few weeks ago this country was on the brink of one of the most serious industrial crises it has ever faced. In that regard we found that the union leadership was not prepared to accept the umpire's decision. The union leadership stood right away from the recognised procedures of conciliation and arbitration. They had the opportunity of a full bench hearing but they were not prepared to accept that. Instead they made a declaration that they wanted an increase in pay, or nothing. Eventually there was a cave in by the union and its members agreed to further negotiations. Weeks and months have gone by and now we find once again that the union members are demanding simply to get what they want. They do not want to engage in negotiations. They have made a straight-out demand and they are prepared to hold the country to ransom to get what they want. The provisions contained in these amendments to the Act would enable in circumstances of this kind an effective and much improved approach on what we have experienced in the past. 
It is very much to the credit of the Government and the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that this House has before it the legislation which we are considering. It is legislation which will give a proper opportunity for a return to sanity in this matter and create a situation in which there is ample opportunity for effective negotiation. In order to achieve that end it is necessary to amend the law. These amendments will enable the bench to require certain steps to be taken in the matter of stand-downs or deregistrations. The main issue, of course, in the Opposition's view is undoubtedly that of deregistration. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  will oppose that provision, but I am sure that his colleague, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the former Minister for Labour and Immigration, who is so assiduously preparing something here, because of his experience at an earlier time must, without doubt, recognise that there is a very great need for action to be taken. I am sure that he knows full well that need because he, as Minister, was denied the opportunity of seeing, effective administration within his own department during the time when he occupied that office. That was for one reason: Irresponsibility on the part of the militant sections of the trade union movement of this country. 
We know of the recent plea by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and the dismal failure that he experienced at the last ACTU Congress. He has now decided to seek a way to come into this place to put his views. Whether he will get here remains to be seen. He is attempting to come obviously because he too is disenchanted with the stage that has been reached in industrial relations in this nation. He is obviously very disenchanted with the membership of the ACTU. It has rejected his leadership. But the Australian Labor Party, of course, has wowed down to its demands. So it is little wonder that we see fairly vehement opposition by the Opposition in this House today and tonight without any alternative proposals as to how the problems can be solved. I mentioned earlier that the main issue will be that of deregistration. Of course, there have been demands over many years that the Government should strengthen the arm of the court in matters relating to industrial disputes. 
-Flexibility no doubt, in the honourable member's view, is to have a one-sided procedure which, of course, is the demand being made by the Left and in accordance with the resolutions of the Adelaide Australian Labor Party Conference that there be no opposition to any reforms in this area. That is what it means. In other words, that Party wants to surrender completely to union domination. 
The honourable member knows that it is not rubbish. He put his case on the ground that the worker is right, the employer is wrong, and the public does not matter. Now we take the view that the public does matter and, as a consequence, we are providing in this legislation that deregistration can occur on grounds of safety, health or welfare of the community. If these are put at risk, following procedures that can only begin in the court itself, action can be taken to deregister a union. Why are we seeking the right of deregistration? We are seeking that right because it is the only punitive action that can be taken. It is the only way that the membership can assert itself if it so wishes. It is the only way that we can bring quickly to a process the requirements of the law when there is obviously a long confrontation which is designed to be a long confrontation, when the action being taken is deliberate and intended to take a lengthy period with the public suffering. We have seen this in the recent Telecom dispute. We have seen it in many other areas. Of course, there is no procedure currently to speed up the approach through the court so that we can get to a point where either a requirement exists for conciliation and arbitration or some other punitive action is taken. We all know- members from both sides of the House know and the public knows- that we cannot take every unionist by the scruff of the neck and say: You will go back to work by tomorrow morning'. We are not suggesting that. 
-The honourable member would say so, but he has no alternative. When the milk tanker drivers of Victoria a few short months ago were refusing to supply the essential needs of the public, what did the honourable member for Lalor say about it then? He probably urged the tanker drivers on and said 'Hear, hear! ' every time they asserted their right not to supply an essential food and an essential commodity. It could have led, as it had begun to lead, to a drastic situation in that State. What did we find in the recent Telecom strike? We found that people were not just inconvenienced; we found that health was at risk. We found that great damage was being done in many areas. I mention the tourist industry. I refer to it for a particular reason. Something is going to happen outside this building tomorrow and there is great interest in that. I see some people in the gallery tonight who are particularly interested in that matter. If we think in terms of what the Telecom dispute occasioned in loss for the tourist industry, it is an example of real damage. Now, perhaps all of the provisions of this amending legislation would not be applied just in circumstances of that sort. Nonetheless, the public is inconvenienced. If we are to overcome that problem effectively, there is a very great need to update the existing provisions of the Act. 
The Minister has been striving for two to three years to bring in gradually amendments which are meaningful. He has not rushed in willy-nilly. He has not rushed in with extravagant proposals. He has not followed the line of the unions themselves through threats or through a series of actions which interfere with the processes of trade and commerce in this country. He has not said: 'Do it or else '. What he is doing is providing in the true Australian tradition for a better procedure whereby the umpire has the opportunity to call the tune and then it is up to those who want to play the game to recognise that there is a way of dealing with problems- not just standover tactics. 
-Somebody used the word 'muscle'. We know that industrial muscle in recent years has gained momentum far beyond the recognised and proper bases upon which trade unions are a vital part of the community. None of us opposes trade unions. Their purpose and their basic work is to look after their members, to negotiate on their behalf, to put forward proposals for consideration, to make requests and to do the kinds of things in a democratic society that are expected for the betterment of the workers' lot. But, when we find such action being taken to the point where the rest of the community is expected to carry the burden- someone said this afternoon that this legislation was, in fact, wage fixing in effect, and that it went to the stage of taking away the right of workers to demand the wages that they thought they should get, not what the umpire said they were entitled to - 
-I think it was the honourable member for Cunningham. If it was not the honourable member for Cunningham, of course, it would be his friend and associate, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who also spoke on this matter. The honourable member for Melbourne, if I recall, is a very experienced gentleman in terms of his time in the trade union movement, including his period as vice-president of the ACTU. He again simply criticised the Minister and the Government and, like other speakers, quoted as his guide and philosopher a previous man from the Bench in the person of  Mr Justice  Kirby. Of course he said that  Mr Justice  Kirby had put the view that this legislation was adverse, that it was contrary to what would be the wish of the bench, and that it was also contrary to the wish of those who understood the requirements of industrial relations in this country. Well we know that for a long time that retired gentleman has taken a contrary view to the present Government and to his colleagues on the Bench. 
He may not be a confrontationalist, but if we look at his record it is a pretty dismal one. I would hate to be guided by his advice in this very important matter so far as the future of Australia is concerned. In the remaining few minutes that I have let me say that the Government is moving on a responsible course. It is taking action of the kind that the community at large expects it to take. It is not rushing into an area without giving great care as to the legal grounds, the proper judicial grounds, and the prospects of success in improving industrial relations in this country. It is not a matter of confrontation at all. It is a matter of fair play, honesty and justice for all Australians. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who is responsible for tourism, been drawn to the arrival in Canberra of a friendly diplomatic mission from the Banana Coast Republic of Coffs Harbour? Is it a fact that the Australian Prime Minister has accorded traditional recognition to the mission? Now that tourism is being accorded greater recognition than ever before by the Government, can the Minister assure the 
House that increased expenditure on tourist promotion, depreciation allowances for the tourist industry as well as other support such as cheaper overseas air fares to Australia negotiated by the Minister for Transport, will make it unnecessary for the Minister for Defence to take any steps to dissuade the Banana Republic from nonpeaceful action in the foreseeable future? 
-I refer the Minister for Primary Industry to a report that 300 pigs have been destroyed, under the direction of animal health authorities, on a farm in northern Tasmania because of suspected disease. Can the Minister inform the House concerning the disease situation which arises? What steps have been taken to deal with the problem? What precautions are being taken against any spread of the disease to other piggeries in Australia? 
-I ask the Minister for Health a question which refers to lead levels. Did he indicate recently that towards the end of October he expected to receive advice from the National Health and Medical Research Council on this important topic of lead levels and its relationship to health? Has the Minister received such information and is he in a position to inform the House on this matter? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the Government's negotiations to secure a more assured access to the United States for Australian meat. What are the consequences for Australia of the counter-cyclical legislation which has now been passed by the United States Congress? 
