-Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to the gathering public resentment at the foreshadowed imposition of the 10 per cent surtax on so-called unearned income? Is it a fact that this extra tax will fall very heavily on those in the community who have saved and are saving for their retirement, as well as many young people who are saving for a home? Will the Government, even at this late stage, revise the incidence of this tax in the interests of fairness and equity to those in the community who, notwithstanding current economic difficulties, are still prepared to save? 
-The division of Bennelong was created in the 1948 redistribution carried out by the Chifley Labor Government and from 10 December 1949 until the dissolution of the 28th Parliament it was represented in this place by John Oscar Cramer, a man who came into this Parliament after a very long and distinguished career in local government in Sydney. He had served for a lengthy term as Lord Mayor of North Sydney and also for a period as  Chairman  of the Sydney County Council. During his 24 years in this Parliament he served for 7 years between 1956 and 1963 as Minister of State for the Army. He was honoured by  Her  Majesty and I am sure that this House would join with me in recording a tribute to the very long and distinguished service given to this Parliament, to the people of Bennelong and to the Australian people by  Sir John  Cramer- a person who always espoused the Liberal philosophy and always showed a very real concern for persons who came to him for assistance. 
The electorate of Bennelong is an urban electorate within the city of Sydney. It is an electorate of considerable diversity for an urban area. Although predominantly residential it does have 3 significant industrial areas and in many respects it is representative of the cross section of the 3,500,000 people who live in Sydney. I want to record, very simply, a sense of honour and privilege at being elected to represent the people of Bennelong. I do not profess for a moment that I now know all the problems of the electorate of Bennelong. I can only promise that in the time ahead I will do my very best to represent those people and to look after and cater for their needs. 
It is an area of considerable beauty. In fact, it has within its confines the first suburb in New South Wales- perhaps in the whole of Australiato receive as a suburb a National Trust classification. It also is an area which is very well served by its local government units- so well served, in fact, that four of the five local government units that lie wholly or party within the Bennelong electorate did not receive any assistance at all in the recent allocation of moneys to councils by the Federal Government. It is an area which has a concern for community involvement. Perhaps the greatest problem which faces all large metropolitan areas not only in Australia but throughout the world is that of keeping and preserving an individual identity in a large metropolis, because often the problems of loneliness and alienation, particularly amongst the elderly and the under-privileged, cause greatest casualties in large metropolitan areas. 
Above all, I think it is necessary, when framing policies for the cities or the metropolitan areas, to take account of the fact that it is necessary at all times to preserve a sense of local identity, a sense of community and a sense of belonging to one's own particular part of the world. I think that the people of Bennelong have demonstrated their desire to preserve a sense of local identity. For example, their reaction in many parts of the electorate to the proposals put forward by a committee called the Barnett Committee earlier this year for the amalgamation of local councils was testimony to a desire to preserve a local identity. 
I come here not only as a representative of the 69,000 electors of Bennelong but also as a member of the Liberal Party of Australia. It is aParty of which I have had membership for the 
East 17 years, a Party whose basic philosophy I ave never doubted, and a Party which I still believe commands the greatest breadth of political base of any political party in Australia. I am pleased to sit on these benches with my colleagues of the Australian Country Party. I, for one, applaud and endorse the formation of a joint Opposition front bench. I think that it has given to the workings of the Opposition in this Parliament a thrust and effectiveness which will enable us to do well in presenting the antisocialist cause in Australia. 
I have never doubted the relevance of the basic philosophy of the Liberal Party to the needs and demands of Australia. The philosophy of the Liberal Party has been expounded by many who are far more eloquent and knowledgeable than I. In recent times I can find no better enunciation of the basic principles on which the Opposition Parties are built than in a quotation from a speech delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  when opening the joint Opposition campaign for the election in May this year. He said: 
The Liberal and Country Parties offer you an Australia built on deep respect for the individual. On his, and her, dignity and freedom. The right to succeed, to accept responsibility, to work harder if they wish and to be rewarded for it. The individual 's success is the community's success. 
I repeat those words because they form the basis of my approach to the Budget: 
The individual's success is the community's success. 
In those words one finds summed up the differences that he between members of the Government and we on this side of the House. Inherent in that proposition that the individual's success is the community's success is that it is only through the creation of community wealth by the efforts of individuals in the community that it is possible for governments to undertake social welfare and to fund their operations. I think that the Government has ignored the place of the individual, not only in the Budget which was presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  last week but also in many of its economic policies undertaken since.it took office. The Government has ignored the fact that it is necessary to give incentive and help to the individual. It is on that rock that I believe the Budget that has been presented founders. For that reason I lend my very strong support to the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition on Tuesday of this week when he documented in a very lethal fashion the shortcomings of the Government's economic policies. 
Let me say at this stage that the Budget contains a number of items with which I agree. I support the provision of the $10 a week handicapped child's allowance. I think this is a very welcome measure and one that will give considerable assistance to those who need it. I welcome also the improvements in repatriation benefits and the proposed increases in capital subsidies under the Aged Persons Homes Act. But above all it is the totality of the Budget's impact that we must look at. One does not have to go beyond page 3 of the Treasurer's Budget Speech to find the key to the Budget document. Although this has been said before, and no doubt it will be said again, I think it is worth repeating because basic principles and propositions are always worth repeating in case they are forgotten. The basic principle which appears on page 3 of the Budget speech is this: 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect in the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
In other words, the Treasurer is saying: 'Having now brought the private sector to a state of relative submission we are in a position to implement our real plans'. That is the basis of this Budget. When one goes through the Treasurer's speech one finds that in so many areas there is a relentless transfer of resources and power to the Federal Government. What this Government fails to realise again and again is the basic principle I mentioned a moment ago, namely, that only through the generation of wealth in this country is it really possible to achieve lasting social reforms and equality of opportunity. Surely the sorry economic plight of the United Kingdom at this present time ought to be lesson enough to those who sit opposite and to the Australian community of the folly of believing that a lasting social structure can be built on a system which denies individual incentive and individual opportunity. 
I pose this question to the House: What incentive is there in the Budget for those Australians who wish to invest in this country's future? We have just heard an eleventh hour partial repentance, as yet unspecified, as yet unconfirmed by the Cabinet, in relation to the 10 per cent property tax. It will remain to be seen just how far that repentence goes. But in many other areas one finds a repudiation of incentive. 
I feel very keenly about the denial of freedom of choice and opportunity which is part of this Government's education policies. As my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said the morning after the Budget was introduced, it is quite clear that freedom of choice for parents is under blunt attack, and indeed it is under blunt attack. I do not think any members of the Government should imagine that it is a very limited number of people in the community who are going to be hurt and damaged by a reduction in the taxation concession for education expenses from $400 to $150. This will go right across the community. It will hurt a lot of people. It will make a lot of people feel that real freedom of choice is under very, very direct attack, because there are many hundreds of thousands of people in this community who are prepared to make additional sacrifices to exercise a freedom of choice. They are not privileged people, but they are people who feel they ought to have the right to exercise this freedom of choice. That freedom of choice is under very, very severe attack and limitation by this Budget. 
Last Tuesday the Leader of the Opposition spoke tellingly of the impact of the progressive taxation system, and nowhere is this more clearly demonstrated than in the field of financial relations between the Commonwealth and the State governments. It is now more imperative than ever that the State governments be given, as the Liberal and Country Parties offered during the last election campaign, access to a percentage share of income tax revenue. Unless this is done our basic federal structure will break down. Unless this is done it will always be necessary for State governments to introduce direct, punitive and inflationary taxes. They have no alternative. They are left with no other method of funding their responsibilities and their operations. Unless the State governments and the Federal Government can devise a scheme which protects State governments against the ravages of inflation, we will have a repetition of what has occurred in the past 2 weeks. 
It would not be an exaggeration to say that this country faces its worst economic crisis since the war. It is an economic crisis which many will find hard to accept because it was only such a very, very short time ago that we could say of Australia, without any fear of contradiction, that it was indeed the lucky country. I find it rather incredible that a country which has been given so many opportunities and which started so far ahead of many other societies should now find itself in such a difficult economic situation- an economic situation that could ultimately lead to serious social dislocation. In fact the greatest end result of inflation always is the social dislocation which occurs. Australia can only be taken out of the possibility of social dislocation if, firstly, we receive leadership and, secondly, there is preserved in the community a united attack on the problems of inflation. 
In his speech to the nation several weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition said that the Opposition was prepared to co-operate with the Government if it could present a coherent plan for dealing with our economic problems. We are prepared to co-operate. We regard the situation as serious. This Budget has failed to present a coherent plan to tackle our problems. It perpetuates the divisions which are emerging in our society between country and city and in so many other areas. In fact, it is a very dismal response to the problems we face at the present time. I thank the House for the courtesy it has extended to me. 

 -Mr Speaker, this motion concerns not only the figure of $30m referred to by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  but also provides an opportunity for this House to look at the quite fundamentally different approaches that the 2 sides of this House have towards the provision of education facilities in this country. Above all, the value of the taxation deduction for education expenses, quite apart from all other revenue assistance given by the Government to education, be it in the Government sector or in the private sector, is that it gives an identifiable cash amount to the parents of children attending either a government or an independent school. It is therefore possible for a parent to choose without any consideration at all, without any dictation or restriction, to some extent the type of school and the particular school to which he will send his children. 
If I have criticisms, and I do have a number, of the education policies of this Government, if the Opposition has criticisms of those policies, they are that too much the Government has looked towards the specific physical resource needs of schools rather than the educational needs of the children who attend those schools and the desires and aspirations of the parents of those children. The Treasurer has based his reply to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  on simply a quantitative defence of what the Government has spent without- with respect to him- a proper recognition of the inflationary pressures of the past 2 years. He has paid too little regard to the fundamentally different approach that we on this side of the House have towards education support by the Government, be it in the private or in the government sector. I say again that the Opposition is totally committed to the effective maintenance of a plural system of education in this society and we will never depart from support of that principle. 
I believe that this action by the Government in respect of the education deduction is the result of what still amounts to a very uneasy coalition inside the Government ranks on the existence of independent schools. I think this House should recognise that there are still many members of the Government Party who are philosophically totally opposed to the existence of independent schools. There are many of them who believe in a Government monopoly in the field of education. On the other hand, I acknowledge that there are others in the Government Party- and the honourable member for Moreton conceded this and I join with him in making a similar concessionwho are deeply concerned about what this change in policy represents. This decision by the Government was an exercise in soak-the-rich cosmetics, nothing else. That was the purpose of it. It was meant to placate those Government supporters who believe that the only independent schools in this community are the so-called wealthy schools, that even those schools are the complete bastion of the privileged and the wealthy in this community. That is an outdated, outmoded and completely unreal concept. There are thousands of parents throughout Australia who are prepared to make above average, very real sacrifices to send their children to these socalled privileged schools. 
Once again we have the Government looking not towards the aspirations of the parents, not towards the educational needs of the children, but looking to the physical resources, the external appearances, whether a school happens to have large playing fields or not. They are the sorts of things that many on the Government side look at. Those things are only the icing on the cake; they are only on the surface. What matters are the real needs of our children, the learning facilities, that our educational institutions should provide. Perhaps the failure of the Government to understand some of these things is due to the paucity of information provided in the document which was undoubtedly the mainspring of this decision. I refer to pages 257-258 of the recommendations of the Coombs Task Force on the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government. On page 258 the report says in part:  ... it has been estimated that the average claim in 1 972-73 will be $ 1 1 3 per student. 
That is 2 years ago. If, as is reported, the Government based its decision on that recommendation, surely it ought to have taken some account of the changes in the cost of living that have taken place since fiscal year 1972-73. Surely to take an average is to miss the real point of this concession. 
Quite obviously if the concession is available, as it should be- and I do not for a moment suggest it should not be- to parents of children in the public and in the private education systems equally, surely the amount of deductions claimed by parents of children in public schools will be inevitably considerably less than those claimed by parents of children in private schools. One of the things that is going to heighten the sense of discrimination in some parents of children at private schools as a result of the Government's decision is that whereas $150 might in some cases be sufficient to provide for the cost of excursions and books and extras, if parents have only one or two children at a public school, that $150 is going to go like that even if a child attends the cheapest and most frugal independent school in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. So it is not really an exercise in soaking the rich. If the Government really believes that the only people who would be hurt by this measure are those in the community who are more affluent it has made a very grave mistake. As the honourable member for Moreton has said, the political consequences of this decision will reverberate throughout many marginal seats in Australia. 
I return to the position of handicapped children. In doing so I refer not only to those who are handicapped in an obvious physical sense but also to those who have specific learning difficulties, speech defects and so forth. It is necessary for those children to have additional tuition by private teachers outside of school hours. The expense of that tuition will be far greater now to the parents of children placed in such unfortunate positions. I also make special reference to the position of boarding schools in this community. In that respect I do not mean the boarding schools in the traditional sense that many honourable members on the Government side of the chamber immediately think of, but the boarding schools which are of social value to children of broken homes, in particular, and to the children of families who live in country areas. A very real role is played by boarding schools. They provide a facility that is normally only available in the independent school system. It is a faculty that makes a valuable contribution not just to the privileged in our community but also to a large number of people from all income brackets. This decision of the Government is illustrative of the fact that deep down it is not a government which shares a permanent commit-, ment to the maintenance of a real freedom of choice in education. We deplore this decision not only because of the monetary deprivation of many families throughout Australia that will result from its implementation but also and above all because it represents a basic rejection of the principle of maintaining a real freedom of choice in education. 
-In speaking to the Estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Special Minister of State I should like initially to direct a few remarks to the Committee about the nature of the office of Prime Minister. This office symbolises the real distinction between the type of government that we enjoy in the Westminster parliamentary system and the alternative methods of democratic government around the world. In a legal sense the Prime Minister in Australia holds his office at royal pleasure. In a practical sense a Prime Minister in the Westminster system holds office while he enjoys the support of the party commanding a majority in the lower House of Parliament. With all its faults, I make a very strong plea for the value of tins parliamentary system of government. 
Over the past 12 months we have seen the incredible agony and travail of the greatest illustration in the Western world of the alternative system of democratic government. I refer, of course, to the presidential system of government. The real difference between the 2 systems of democratic government in the world is in the nature of the powers, privileges, responsibilities and weaknesses of the head of government, in our case the Prime Minister. The alternative system of government offers an attempt to combine the functions not only of a head of government but also the ceremonial functions of a head of state. It. also offers an inflexible, difficult to change, and at times extremely embarrassing situation as we have seen illustrated only too recently in the United States. 
In a complex modern democracy I do not think it is possible effectively to combine the powers and privileges of a head of government with those of a head of state. For that reason I think that all honourable members should take note of the events of the past 12 months. They illustrate that although there are many weaknesses in the parliamentary system of government, some of which were spoken about this afternoon in the debate on the estimates for the Parliament, the parliamentary system of government based on a party system- I make no apology for supporting a party system of government, and I do not have any undying allegiance to a 2 party system of government as many of those who sit opposite have- contains flexible, responsive checks and balances carried through into the chamber of Parliament which other systems of democratic government throughout the world do not have. I think the past 12 months have demonstrated the inherent values of our system and the need to separate the office of head of government from the office of head of state. In my view, and I believe in the view of the great majority of the Australian people, there is no better way of doing that than by having a system with a constitutional monarch as the head of state, as we presently have. 
During the debates on these estimates for the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and Special Minister of State there have been, I think quite correctly, a number of references made to the number of overseas trips and so forth undertaken by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his advisers. I base my position quite simply on the attitude taken by the  Deputy  Leader of the Oppostion  (Mr Lynch)  this morning at question time when he asked the Prime Minister about his plans for future overseas visits. He emphasised in his question that he did not dispute the right, the prerogative and in fact the duty of an Australian Prime Minister to make frequent trips overseas. I join him in that view. I have no cavil at all with the right of the present Australian Prime Minister to make overseas trips. The only quarrel we on this side of the chamber have with the actions of the Prime Minister in this respect is that he demonstrates a deplorable lack of perspective. If indeed the most pressing problems facing the Australian nation at the moment were problems of our international relations which demanded the Australian Prime Minister being away from this country, we on this side of the chamber would willingly and enthusiastically support the proposition that he should journey overseas frequently and stay there for long periods of time. 
But the sad fact is that the problems that really concern Australia at the moment are domestic economic problems. These are our major problems at the moment. We do not challenge the principle of the Prime Minister going overseas, but we challenge his lamentable lack of perspective. 
Another matter that was dealt with earlier in the debate on these Estimates is the question of political appointments. I think the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  have fully categorised the charges that the Opposition makes against the Government in this respect. I do not dispute the need, in fact, the right, of a Prime Minister, be he a Labor or a Liberal Prime Minister, to have on his staff people whose sole purpose or overriding purpose is to provide political liaison between his Department, his members of Parliament and himself, and his party organisation. In fact, I think the system of party parliamentary government demands that there be much closer liaison between the organisational sections of parliamentary parties and the parliamentary parties themselves. Our only quarrel with the Government in this respect is the extent to which it has used the public purse to finance the employment of persons whose sole role is the maintenance in office of the Australian Labor Party. It is a practice that I hope is not repeated when we return to Government. It is a practice which I think will lead in time to an undermining of the party system of government and it is a practice that I completely oppose. 
I think a useful precedent that could be followed in our system of government is that system which is followed in the United Kingdom with Conservative Party Governments, where in every Minister's office there is a political secretary who is paid for out of party funds. He is not paid for out of government revenue. He provides a liaison and a link between the Minister and the Party organisation. I think that it is a valuable thing for a Party, a Prime Minister or any Minister to have such a person in his office. But I think it is an important breach of principle for that person to be financed out of government funds. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that interest rates are not presently one of the items directly included in the consumer price index? If so, will the honourable gentleman consult the Bureau of Statistics to determine whether some provision can be made for the inclusion of interest rates in the consumer price index so that such index will reflect with even greater accuracy the present cost of living to Australian households? 
Everybody agrees that this Bill is a very complex piece of legislation. It is a very confusing piece of legislation. There are many things left unexplained by this totally unsatisfactory debate. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chippp)  by interjection a moment ago raised the point which is left with the greatest lack of explanationthat is why this Bill has to be passed tonight. There is no satisfactory - 
That the amendments and the new clauses be agreed to. 

<graphic href="091131197410245_108_6_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410245_108_6_3_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That the Bill as amended be agreed to and the Bill be reported with amendments. 
Question put. 
The Committee divided: (The Chairman-Mr G. G. D. Scholes) 
I think that the central issue to which this House should address itself during this debate is not so much the deficiencies of the existing compensation and accident cover for persons in the community but rather the devising of a scheme which will effectively compensate and cover people who, by common consent, are unlucky enough not to be covered at present. That is the simple issue. On that principle I think there ought to be some measure of common agreement in this Parliament. I, for my part, certainly believe that the time has long since passed in this country when what all of us would in everyday experience regard as mere chance and nothing else should determine whether, as between 2 people who suffer an equal physical devastation, one of them is to have impacted on that physical devastation financial devastation, and the other is to have some kind of security for the rest of his or her life which makes the physical devastation a little easier to bear. 
That, in common language, is my going in position in relation to this legislation. I think it is also the going in position of a great number of people in this Parliament. If I have any criticisms they are criticisms of approach, criticisms of timing, criticisms of technique and criticisms of inflexibility. I support the basic concept-I take it no further than that- which is inherent in this legislation. I believe that the concepts on which my Party is founded compel a concern for those in the community who are less fortunate than the great majority of the community and compel its supporters to look at the devising of a scheme which will compensate and care for those people, not in any paternal sense but in a sense that there are many in our community who, through pure misadventure, are left physically and, unfortunately in relation to a great number of them at the present time, financially devastated. 
Having laid that ground and having stated my basic approach to this legislation, I turn to the mechanics of it. I turn firstly to the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  In that speech he frequently referred to the social significance of this legislation. He was very correct and very accurate in saying that this legislation is socially significant. Indeed it is. I submit that it is at least as socially significant as the restrictive trade practices legislation which was introduced by the Menzies Government in the 1960s; that it is at least as socially significant as the uniform divorce law or the matrimonial causes law which was introduced in 1959; that it is at least as socially significant as the provisions of the Family Law Bill, which is now laying on the table of another place, and that it is at least as socially significant as the massive amendments to the conciliation and arbitration procedures of this country in the 1950s and the early 1970s. 
Yet, notwithstanding the social significance of this legislation and notwithstanding that it represents a massive breaking of new ground, we find an indecent haste to have it passed. I remind the House that when the restrictive trade practices legislation of the 1960s was introduced there was continuous public debate for a period of almost 2 years. I can well remember the now Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia going around Australia getting opinions, attending public meetings, receiving submissions and sifting through all of the evidence and material on that subject. It was not until he had been satisfied, and the Government had been satisfied, that the legislation was proposed. It did break new ground in that area, in the same way as this legislation breaks new ground in this area. This legislation does not seek to amend an existing Act. It seeks to write into the statute book an entirely new concept. I plead with the Government, in the interests of having some kind of consensual approach to this legislation, if it is interested in a bipartisan approach to allow more time to be given for public consideration of this legislation. 
It is of no use the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  saying that people had an opportunity of putting their views before the Woodhouse Committee. Of course that is important, but what is even more important is the warrant of this Parliament. We want as a Parliament the opportunity of looking at this legislation more carefully. The Government has already indicated that it is prepared to sponsor 46 amendments to this Bill. I commend it for doing that because a great number of those amendments picked up detailed deficiencies in the legislation. Be that as it may, it is just not realistic- in common language it is not on- to expect this House to give proper consideration to such a mammoth piece of social legislation as this Bill in the time which has been allowed. I very strongly commend to the Minister the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that we ought to have the legislation examined by a committee comprised of members of both sides of the House who are concerned with the issues involved in this legislation so that ultimately we can come up with a piece of legislation which will be a credit to this Parliament, which will be the result of a bipartisan distillation of all the issues and which will be a piece of legislation which will achieve the stated social objectives. 
A great number of individual deficiencies in the legislation have been canvassed. It is inevitable in a debate such as this that one is driven to refer to individual case histories. One cannot help but do that because it is precisely the unfortunate experiences of individual people which prompts legislation such as this. One area I ask the Government to consider, even at this late stage, is the apparently inflexible attitude of the legislation towards lump sum payments. I know that a very strong case can be made out for periodic payments. I accept the arguments in support of that. I know that provision is made in the legislation for the payment of $10,000 for significant cosmetic disfigurements and that there are other minor provisions for lump sum payments, but basically lump sum payments go by the board. In a great number of cases that may well be the right approach but there are cases where lump sum payments are far more preferable than periodic payments. 
I pose the case of the school child under 18 years of age who suffers a devastating accident and is a quadraplegic. Under this legislation, as I understand it, on attaining the age of 18 years that person would be entitled to a certain periodic payment. I accept that. But I do ask the Government to consider whether there ought not to be some type of option of capitalisation available to the victim of such an accident because one of the additional tragedies of a person who suffers such a permanent accident as that is that he is so often forced out of his own family environment. Notwithstanding the desire of parents and relatives to care for them in a home environment and to give them some kind of emotional and personal support to alleviate much of the suffering they have, they are forced out of that family environment. The value in those cases of lump sum awards is that it is possible for a family to alter a house to make provision for the needs of the quadruplegic. Only through the expenditure of a large sum of money can effective care be provided for the victim of the accident by the members of the family. 
I see in this bypassing, as I see in other legislation, evidence of another example of what I think is a disturbing trend in social welfare legislation and something about which I intend to speak in this House on the estimates for the Department of Social Security, that is, the tendency to institutionalise our social welfare services. I think that far more emphasis should be placed on making provision to assist people to care for relatives who are victims of accidents in their family environment. I ask, in the context of this legislation, whether the Government ought not to give some consideration to the introduction of an amendment along these lines. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  spoke of the constitutional difficulties of this legislation. I lend my very strong support to what he said. I am worried that this piece of legislation will become the subject of a constitutional confrontation with the States. I again plead with the Government to give consideration to this aspect in the interests of achieving the stated social objective of the Bill. Once again, it is a question of time. Time is needed to talk to the States. Time is needed to talk to the insurance industry. Time is needed for further response from the trade union movement. Time is needed to get an even wider community response. 
If one is to take the Government at its word, and I do, it regards this legislation as socially important. That being so, I cannot understand why it is so obsessively necessary to rush it through in such a short period. I think that it would be a terrible tragedy if legislation which is as socially important as this legislation is, which is designed to cure anomalies in the existing legislation and to assist people less fortunate than us, is rushed through in such a short period. 
I must confess quite honestly that I have not made up my mind on the subject of the abolition of the common law right to sue. I make no apology for saying that. I have made up my mind on one thing, that is, that there are groups of people in this community who are not covered adequately and who ought to be covered. That is as far as I can go at this stage. If that is a confession of weakness, well, I am prepared to make that confession of weakness. But I am disturbed that this legislation, though in some areas introducing improvements, obviously in other areas will introduce massive inequities and will result in deprivation to people who, under the existing law, would be able to recover substantial sums. 
One of the reasons why this legislation is proposed is that there is an obsession by the Government with many of the faults of the existing system. I know that there are many faults. Having practised the law myself before entering this place, I know of a great number of them. I also know that there is a lot of selective quotation as far as the faults of the existing system are concerned. I know for example that in New South Wales approximately 90 per cent of all third party claims involving the Government Insurance Office of New South Wales are settled out of court. In most of those cases, process is never issued. In the strict legal sense, nobody ever goes to court. To suggest that in all these cases there is litigation neurosis and there are incessant delays and fat legal fees is just to be totally selective and to be totally unrealistic. 
I support the stated objective of this legislation. I am deeply disturbed that the Government has decided to rush it through. I appeal to the Government at this time, in the interests of the stated objective of the legislation, to withdraw it and, in the terms of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Hotham, which I support, to establish the machinery whereby the provisions of this Bill can be comprehensively studied and a far more worthwhile piece of legislation produced to this House. 
-Before I became the victim of the gag I was asking a very pertinent question. Out of all the complexities, the doubts and the unanswered question that arose in the debate tonight, the great question that remains unanswered is why the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  found it necessary for this legislation to be passed tonight. The very words he used were: 'We have to have the Bill tonight'. Throughout the debate the Special Minister of State has avoided explaining to this House why it is necessary in terms of the social objectives of this Bill, which we on this side of the House support notwithstanding the comments that were made by Government supporters in this debate, for it to be passed tonight. We do not seek to obstruct or delay its passage. We merely seek a reasonable opportunity to give proper consideration to a matter of enormous social significance. 
During the course of my remarks on the second reading I alluded to what I regarded as a constructive amendment to this legislation. I asked the Government to consider whether it might be possible to include in the legislation some option for people to capitalise the benefits under the legislation because I believe that in some circumstances capitalisation of the benefits is of far greater use to people who suffer complete and total incapacity than are regular weekly benefits. The Committee stage of the debate was such a total farce that I had no opportunity of raising this objection then. For the Government to chide members of the Opposition and to say that members of the Opposition are being obstructionist towards a matter of social significance, and yet in the next breath to allow a totally farcical period of time for a Committee debate on such an important piece of legislation, I think lends weight to the argument that was put forward by my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  that indeed the Government is using natural sympathy in the community for the sick and injured as a stalking horse for its Senate plans. 
I again remind the House that the members of the Opposition recognise the enormous social significance of this legislation. We recognise that there are large numbers of people in the community who wrongly and unjustly at the moment are without benefit. We do not object to a scheme that will give them benefits We do not object to a scheme that will legitimately remove the anomalies that presently exist; but what we do object to and what we will continue to object to is the fact that this Parliament is asked to rubber-stamp such a significant piece of social legislation without the merest semblance of a serious debate. 
If there is any sympathy and concern on the other side of the House about a serious parliamentary consideration of national problems, the Government will even at this late stage, if it is possible, allow a serious debate on this legislation. Time and time again in the past when matters of social significance to the country have been brought to this Parliament we have been allowed a serious debate. Yet the second reading debate for this legislation commenced this afternoon and as the afternoon unfolded we found that the second reading stage had to be completed by about 9 o'clock. Members on the Government side dropped out of the debate. That is how interested they are in a serious consideration - 
It was perhaps inevitable that much of the discussion in tonight's debate would centre on the decision of the Government to reduce the taxation deduction for education expenses from $400 to $150. 1 canvassed this aspect in a discussion on a matter of public importance some 2 weeks ago and have stated to this chamber my own very strong objection to the Government's action. My sole purpose in referring to it in my remarks tonight is to put the matter back into perspective because I think that the remarks made by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Clayton),  in particular, have distorted the perspective that we would wish to give to this dispute. What I object to above all about the reduction from $400 to $ 1 50 is the extent to which it has robbed the parents of children from access to a diverse system of education. 
If the Committee will forgive me for being a little parochial for just a moment, I would like to refer to the situation in my own electorate of Bennelong which is serviced by a large number of extremely good state schools. I do not for a moment pretend that all of their needs are being satisfied. I suppose that in no electorate, whether it is from one end of the scale of alleged social privilege or the other end of the scale of alleged social privilege, could it be said that all of the needs are being attended to. We have some extremely good state schools. We have two of the quite well known independent schools in Sydney. I refer to St Ignatius College (Riverview) and St Josephs College at Hunter's Hill. We have a number of what are certainly systemic Catholic parochial schools and we also have a progressive school by the name of Currumbeena. I use that example because it does illustrate the diversity of education systems available in the community. I would like to see this diversity increasingly developed. 
I believe not only in a dual system of education. In saying that I pay tribute to the many hundreds of thousands of parents who over decades have sacrified a great deal to maintain a dual system of education. It was only in 1 963, a mere 11 years ago, that for the first time a government gave direct financial assistance to independent schools in this country. I believe not only in a dual system of education but also in a plural system of education. We do not want to get the idea that the only option available is state schools or the existing independent schools. I think that there ought to be a plurality of choice. 
The best way in which parents can be given a plurality of choice is to provide them with a means of exercising that choice. It is all very well to answer that suggestion by saying: 'We have given extra money to the schools'. What the Government does when it gives extra money to the schools is in effect to perpetuate the status quo. The opportunity for the development of new schools run on new lines with new concepts is not allowed to develop. That is why I, for my part, would like to see a greater emphasis on a plural system of education. It is the policy of my Party and I know that to some extent it is the policy of the Government to give assistance direct to the parents. 
It is in the perspective of providing a plural system of education that I object most strongly to the reduction of the taxation allowance for education expenses from $400 to $150. Before leaving that matter, I refer particularly to the very serious effect that this has had on the parents of children with specific learning difficulties or the parents of children who are mildly handicapped as well as parents of children who must travel very long distances. I know that the Government has provided in the Budget- I congratulate it for this action- a subsidy of $10 a week to parents with handicapped children. But I do not think that in any way cancels out the real financial loss that the parents of these children have suffered. 
In the few minutes that remain, I would like to refer to two or three other matters. I wish to support very strongly the concept of community involvement in schools. In this regard I pay tribute to the New South Wales Minister for Education, the honourable Eric Willis, who last year launched for public discussion a position paper on possible forms of community involvement in schools. This is an extremely welcome trend. A greater degree of local participation in school affairs can only lead to a greater community awareness of the heeds of education and a greater sense of satisfaction and vocation amongst the teachers in our community. This also can more effectively integrate the activities of schools into, the communities in which they are located. This concept is to be commended. I hope that in its policies the Federal Government will do all that it can to encourage an extension of this concept. 
I also compliment the Government on the additional support it has given to colleges of advanced education. I have had the opportunity recently of visiting two of the best examples that I think one could find in Australia of colleges of advanced education. I refer to the Ku-ring-gai College of Advanced Education at Lindfield, New South Wales, and the College of Advanced Education at Hobart in Tasmania. Both of these are very good examples of such colleges. This area had been neglected. The support that has been given not only by the previous Government but also by this Government is most welcome. I believe that in tertiary institutions there is a real opportunity to experiment with techniques. Some of the experimentation, some of the new approaches to teaching and to the development of disciplines that I saw in those 2 colleges of advanced education were extremely interesting. They are developments which ought to be commended. 
In conclusion, I pay a brief tribute to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  In the very short time that I have been a member of this Parliament, I have had confirmed to me the impression that I gained before I was elected a member: That is, he is a person who brings a very considerable capacity and dedication to his job. Whilst quite obviously I take strong issue with him on certain philosophical approaches which he must necessarily apply to the administration of his portfolio, he is a man who, I believe, is very dedicated to his job. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Departments of Health, Repatriation and Compensation, and Social Security I want to direct my remarks to one aspect of our approach and the approach of many countries which have similar societies to the provision of social services, particularly towards the care of the aged in our community. I would like to join other speakers from both sides of the chamber in expressing satisfaction at the increase in benefits in certain areas which were announced in the Budget. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  mentioned the increase in assistance that will be given under the Aged Persons Homes Act. I welcome that increase and I also take the opportunity of putting on record, as the honourable member for Barton was good enough to do, that the aged persons homes scheme was initiated by the previous Government. I think the principal author of the legislation was the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  when he was Minister for Social Services in the early 1 950s. 
I would like to put to the Government for considerationI do not say this in any critical sense- the proposition that an examination might be made of our social services to see whether it is possible to give some incentive to families to care to a much greater extent for the elderly members of their families in their own home environments. This is a very complex issue and I am not suggesting that I have the answer to it. I know that one can do no more than just scratch the surface in a mere 10 minutes. But there is no doubt that the caring of elderly people within their own family environment is socially, and I think in the long run also economically, beneficial. I know that in the past 20 years there has been a move away from what is commonly called the extended family. I know that the pattern of life between grandparents and grandchildren has changed enormously over the years. 
But I also know that to some extent this has been due not just to evolutionary processes but also to financial strains and stresses. Difficulties often arise in having 3 generations living under the same roof because of physical proximity 24 hours a day. Some people are able to have what are colloquially called granny flats, where it is possible for grandparents in the community to have some kind of privacy and separate life but still be under the same roof as their families and able to mix with the rest of the family in a way that is beneficial to both them and the other members of the family. 
I do not, for my part, write off completely the concept of an extended family. I think there has been too great a tendency to accept that a nuclear family is inevitable and that this is a process that cannot be reversed. I know that it is beyond the capacity of any government- let us be frank about it- to bring about a huge social revolution of this kind. But it is possible for governments to give some kind of emphasis, to give a push in the right direction. I am reminded of a push in the right direction that was given by the previous Government through the introduction of the domiciliary care allowance. It was a very small step in the right direction. I think it was introduced by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson when he was Minister for Health in 1972. It provided for a sum of $14 a week for persons who were giving the equivalent of full time nursing care to a close relative aged 65 years or over. The whole philosophy behind the provision was to give a bit of assistance and incentive to those in the community who were prepared to undertake care of the elderly in their family, their close relatives, within their own home environment. 
The Committee may recall that in the debate on the national compensation legislation I raised the issue of the provision of lump sum payments for some people who were very seriously injured and disabled as a result of accidents. The lump sum payments would often make it possible for those persons to be cared for in their own family environment. I would hope that perhaps as an interim measure the Government might give some consideration to the extension of the domiciliary allowance and the removal of the limit of 65 years or over where a person has been the victim of an accident and is being cared for in his or her own family environment by close relatives. I think in a number of Scandinavian countries some financial incentives through the taxation mechanism are given to persons who are caring for the elderly within their own family environment and have had to make extensions to the home to care for these people. Also some persons are able to obtain taxation concessions for elderly relatives in much the same way as at present under the Australian taxation legislation it is possible to obtain taxation concessions for dependent children. 
I think this is an issue that we as a total community must face, particularly in the metropolitan areas. I do not think there would be any members in this Parliament who represent metropolitan electorates who are not aware that one of the greatest problems of living in the city these days, particularly if you happen to be old, is the problem of loneliness. Very often the problems of poverty are the problems of loneliness and alienation. As people have a greater expectation of life, as the opportunities available in life to the young in the community are becoming more and more apparent, I think it is a social issue which we have to face. I do not make these comments in any niggly sense, but I think it is a social issue which we all have to face. Maybe the sort of idea that I have in mind is not capable of achievement; it may be an extremely difficult thing to achieve. But I would hope that this Government and successive governments of this country will give in the provision of social services much greater emphasis to the creation of circumstances in which people will have incentives to care for the elderly within their own environment and accordingly I hope that the emphasis of our social service provisions will be altered. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property and is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. Can the Minister assure the House that in view of his emphatic endorsement of the principle of properly drawn electoral boundaries his Government will dissociate itself from the submission lodged with the New South Wales Electoral Commissioners by the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party and which if implemented would produce, on the basis of the 1 974 election results, 29 ALP seats out of 45 in New South Wales and, in percentage terms, 64 per cent of the seats in New South Wales although that Party in the May election polled a mere 52 per cent to 53 per cent of the primary votes? (Honourable members interjecting)- 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The purpose of this legislation is to facilitate the provision of supplementary funds for programs administered by the Schools Commission. The House should be indebted to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  for bringing the debate back into perspective. In no sense does this Bill initiate new programs. In no sense does this Bill in reality represent the provision of additional financial support for education. It merely provides a statistical hedge against the ravages of inflation which have occurred in this country since the adoption of the original recommendations of the Karmel report 
The Opposition supports the legislation and compliments the Government on recognising the need to provide these additional funds. No better basis for the argument that I have just put can be found than in the report by the Schools Commission to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is at the table, on supplementary funds for programs administered by that Commission. The report at page 3 states: 
The evidence that has been made available to the Commission in respect of the rates of increases in running costs suggests that unless supplementary recurrent funds are provided, resources available in many schools will not reach the level which the Government set as its objective . . . 
I have quoted from paragraph 10 of that report. Paragraph 1 1 is relevant to some of the remarks that have been made by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  and honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  This paragraph makes most interesting reading, which I commend to all members of the House when making a sober consideration of the position of non-government schools. Dealing with the problems faced by the non-government school sector, paragraph 1 1 states: 
Indeed it has been submitted to the Commission that some non-government schools may suffer an actual reduction in the level of services offered. Restitution of the intended value of Australian Government grants will afford relief to such schools. 
In other words, the effect of the funds to be made available by this legislation will be to prevent a decline in the actual level of services provided by schools in the non-government sector. 
When we consider this legislation, we ought to recognise it for what it is, that is, a piece of necessary economic support for the provision of educational facilities in Australia. No doubt exists that the volume of money which has been spent under the programs of this Government has been quite considerable. I join with other speakers on both sides of the House in paying a proper tribute to certain aspects of the Government's programs and to the energy with which they have been pursued by the Minister at the table. There are differences of emphasis concerning the provision of education facilities in this country, as there are differences of approach, a great many related to the attitudes of the 2 sides of this House to schools in the non-government sector. 
I think that the time has long since passed when we ought to recognise that, in relation to the period spanned by compulsory secular education in Australia, it is only a very short time since any recognition was given to the principle that governments ought to help independent schools. In fact, it was only a mere 1 1 years ago when the first substantial assistance was given to non-government schools in the State by a Federal government. That there should be such differences of emphasis perhaps is understandable. I do not deny that in crude money terms this Government has made considerable volumes of funds available to schools in the nongovernment sector. I do not deny that; the statistics prove it. What I put to the House is that the methods which have been chosen to channel funds into the non-government schools sector are being greeted with increasing concern and suspicion by those who operate the schools in the non-government sector. To some extent, even the statistics could be a little illusory. This legislation seeks to provide $64.5m to supplement the program for both government and non-government schools. 
-On a recurring basis- yet, in the same breath, the Government is taking back an education concession which is worth at least $30m annually, also on a recurring basis. 
With respect to the Minister's interjection, we have no control over the appropriation of the tax cuts towards education expenses. At least if the Government accepts as a priority the expenditure of a certain sum of money on education, and works towards that priority by the provision of tied funds and also the provision of specific taxation allowances, it can be sure that the funds reach the purpose for which they have been allocated. But if those funds are just made generally available, we have no guarantee that they will wind up being used for education purposes. So, lest any honourable member is carried away at the financial largesse proposed by this Bill, I think the House should recognise firstly that the legislation provides an adjustment in respect of inflation and that, measured against the value of allowable taxation deductions for expenditure on education, which taxation concession has been withdrawn, this legislation represents in reality a provision of an additional $30m only. It is not all that generous, although I compliment the Government on making the money available. 
In the few moments remaining to me in this debate I wish to correct one impression which was created by Government speakers. This is in respect of the attitude that the honourable member for Chisholm takes towards nongovernment schools. I suppose it is too much to hope that we will ever be able to lay the ghosts of the various myths that surround the attitude of people on different sides of the House towards non-government schools. I suppose it is too much to hope that every time a member of the Opposition defends non-government schools we will not get from people on the other side of the House the shrill catch-cry that we are interested in only category A schools and that we are interested only in the abodes of the privileged and wealthy. 
If I can be forgiven for being parochial for a moment, I think it is worth reading an extract from a letter I received only yesterday from what could never be categorised as being an A category school, the parish school of the Holy Spirit at North Ryde in my electorate. Over the hand of the secretary of the Holy Spirit Parents and Friends Association there is a very feeling criticism of the reduction of the taxation deduction for education expenses from $400 to $ 1 50. It is worth reading some of the sentences because they come very close to the point. Do not forget that this is not an area that votes 70 per cent Liberal; it is an area that at the last election voted 55 per cent Labor. So I think some of the marginal seat holders on the other side of the chamber might listen to this. The letter states: 
We consider this decision to be both discriminating and grossly unfair to parents with children attending nongovernment schools. Secondary education, with its low means test for school scholarships, will now become almost an impossibility for the average wage earner. Parents with large families are particularly badly affected by this decision, coupled with the lack of any child endowment increase. 
So there is a sense of grievance felt throughout the non-governmernt school sector towards this reduction in the taxation allowance for education expenses. It is not confined to the abodes of the so-called privileged but extends throughout the entire community. Whilst I join with my colleagues on this side of the House in supporting the legislation and in commending the Government for recognising the need to provide supplementary assistance, I ask the House to bear in mind the necessary limitations and qualifications that I have expressed in respect of the provisions of this Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Has his attention been drawn to the dispute which has disrupted mail deliveries from Lane Cove Post Office, thereby causing substantial inconvenience to an estimated 30,000 people within the area serviced by that post office? Has this dispute been caused by a black ban placed on the post office by the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union of Australia on account of the employment at that post office of 4 persons who refused to join the union? Have negotiations to settle the dispute been underway, and if so, is the Minister in a position to advise the House of the present state of these negotiations and the likely date of resumption of normal services from the Lane Cove post office? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill seeks to amend in some 34 respects the existing provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Whilst it is inevitable with legislation of this nature that there are some measures included in the amendments with which I agree and perhaps with which all members of the House agree, it is essential that we should turn our attention to the central provisions of the proposal. The central provisions of the proposal, I believe, are the introduction of optional preferential voting and the requirements that political parties henceforth be registered, thus facilitating the printing on ballot papers of the names of political parties beside their candidates. I am opposed very strongly to both of these provisions in the Bill. 
I am opposed to optional preferential voting not just in a party political sense but also because I believe that the existing system of preferential voting in Australia is a system that can be favourably compared with systems employed by other liberal democracies throughout the world. In his second reading speech the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said: 
Australians can be justly proud of their electoral machinery. 
I agree with that. I think that over the years Australia has had a commendable record of integrity in the conduct of elections and a commendable commitment by its electoral staff. But I think that the Minister might well have added that Australians can be justly proud not only of our electoral machinery but also of our electoral system. Australia in many respects had pioneered the introduction of electoral reforms, and it is rather a pity that this Bill represents in so many ways a going back on the fine standards that we have established throughout the years. 
An optional preferential system of voting is, I believe, merely a half way house towards first past the post voting. I know that the Minister will respond by saying that we do not know what we are talking about, that the first past the post system is quite different from an optional preferential system and that you can express your preference if you wish. But I invite him in his reply to nominate any other country that can be categorised as a liberal democracy which uses an optional preferential system of voting. Our present system of preferential voting is as good a system for producing a majority result as can be devised with a minimum of inconvenience. 
Of course, the best way of having a completely accurate reflection of the majority opinion is to have an exhaustive system of voting, as is used in single member constituencies in elections for the French National Assembly. I do not think that honourable members opposite would suggest that we should introduce that system here, but, in essence, that is the best system of all because on 2 separate occasions if a candidate does not get an absolute majority of primary votes on the first count people are forced to direct their minds to making a decision as to which of the three or four or whatever the number of candidates is they will vote for. 
-I thought that we were interested not only in taxpayers but also in achieving democratic results. I think that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has already categorised the electoral injustices of the first past the post system. In the elections in Britain in February 1974 the Liberal Party polled 6 million primary votes, the Conservative Party polled just on 1 1 million primary votes and the Labour Party polled just on 1 1 million primary votes, yet in the House of Commons the Liberal Party got 14 seats and the other 2 parties got almost 300 seats each. What sort of electoral justice is that? I ask honourable members opposite in their readiness to distinguish between an optional preferential voting system and a first past the post system to remember the words a few minutes ago of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He said that people do not want to express a preference and that people will, if they are given the option, just choose between one of two parties. I can just imagine that if this Bill becomes law there will be a massive propaganda campaign by the Government to remind people that they no longer have to express a preference. There will be a bias in its publicity towards people not expressing a preference. 
Perhaps the shallowness of the Government's case in favour of optional preferential voting is best demonstrated by the remarks of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  when he said people should not be compelled. I agree with that. It is a great pity that he did not extend the argument right through. I find it very hard to accept that the Government's arguments in favour of optional preferential voting are other than those to secure it electoral advantage when the Minister for Services and Property says, quite simply: 'It is our policy to have compulsory voting'. I am sorry to hear that. I, for my part, believe that compulsory voting ought to go. I have never believed in compulsory voting. For supporters of the Government to come into this House and in high-sounding phrases to say that we ought not to compel people to express a preference beyond their first preference and then to say that they believe in compulsory voting is to remove from their arguments and their incantations all sense of principle and logic. 
I turn to the second main limb of this legislation, that is, the registration of political parties. In a sense it belongs to the same stable as the proposals for payment into party funds of moneys from Consolidated Revenue and it belongs to the stable which believes that the system should be so ordered as to entrench the status quo. I do not believe in using the public purse to finance political parties, I do not believe in the compulsory disclosure of the sources of party funds and I certainly do not believe in the printing of party affiliations on a ballot paper. What has gone wrong with the supporters of the Government? Are they a little worried that in the next election they will not be able to get enough of their supporters outside the polling booths handing out how-to-vote cards? Is that their real concern? Is the real purpose of this legislation so to order the system that even if the Australian Labor Party suffers a massive deficiency on the ground it will be perfectly all right because 'Australian Labor Party' will be written after the names of its candidates? I am inherently suspicious of any system which will entrench the status quo in the electoral laws of this country. There is no reason why the Liberal Party, the Labor Party or the Country Party should be given any entrenched advantage. There is no reason why a splinter from any of those parties ought not in time to secure the same measure of electoral support in this country as the party from which it has splintered has at present. 
I believe, with respect to the Minister who introduced this Bill, that the move towards the registration of political parties will present some horrendous legal difficulties. My mind goes back to the Labor Party split in Victoria in the mid-1950s when a court ruled that the former Victorian Branch of the ALP was legally entitled to certain property and certain funds. I wonder what impact such a court decision would have upon the provisions of this Act so far as the registration of political parties is concerned. Perhaps it is part and parcel of this Government's approach to believe that every single thing can be altered by legislation, that it does not really trust the system and that it has constantly to patch up the guidelines under which the system is carried out. 
There are a number of other peripheral provisions in this Bill. There is the reduction in the voting hours. I regret to say that I cannot agree with some of my colleagues on this matter. I believe that any reduction in the voting hours under a system of compulsory voting would be quite wrong. To compel people to vote and then to reduce their opportunities for casting their votes is, I think, an extremely odd form of electoral justice. We are left with a piece of legislation which contains a number of good provisions. I, too, support the idea of increasing deposits. I think that is a very good provision. I suppport the idea of drawing candidates' names out of the hat to determine the order on the ballot paper. I think that is a reform that is long overdue. I support a number of the other reforms relating to the broadcasting of election advertisements and so forth. 
We are left irresistibly with the impression that there are only really 2 things in this legislation in which the Government is greatly interested. They are the introducion of optional preferential voting and the registration of political parties. Australia certainly does have an enviable system. I believe that to introduce these 2 elements into the Australian system would be to remove a lot of the virtue that we have presently. I am a little surprised to hear that the Government proposes to introduce in this legislation a restriction on postal voting facilities. The Government's leaders today have spent a great deal of time talking about how dreadful and how terrible it is that it took 2 or 3 weeks to determine the government. Of course, the truth of the matter, as honourable members opposite and all of us know, is that the real delay of 2, 3 or 4 weeks occurred because of the final calculation of the votes for Senate vacancies in the various States. What the Government will do now in the name of speeding things up and having a quicker finalisation of electoral results is to make it very, very difficult for a lot of people who are travelling overseas to cast their ballots. It will limit the opportunities that those people have to cast their ballots. I think that is a very, very odd kind of electoral reform for a Party that says that it is so interested in promoting the maximum amount of choice and the maximum amount of opportunity. 
I think a great number of things in our electoral laws need improvement. I think the Government has gone completely the wrong way about it. The honourable member for Phillip was candid enough to intimate that the Government wishes to have this legislation passed very quickly. It wishes to get it through very quickly because it wants optional preferential voting. The Government knows that a naked transfer from the existing system of preferential voting to first past the post voting would be open to too much criticism. Through the back door of optional preferential voting it is trying to achieve the result that it has long wanted, because the Labor Party has been ravaged over the years by preferential voting. That is why it wishes to change optional preferential voting and thereby introduce first past the post voting. The members of the Opposition recognise this move for what it is. I think this legislation ought to be opposed. 
Sitting suspended from  6.13  to  8  p.m. 
I rise somewhat reluctantly to speak for the first time on the motion for the adjournment of the House. My reason for rising flows from a very concerned telephone call that I received this afternoon from one of my constituents, and also from subsequent information that I received. I raise this, not in any acrimonious personal sense but as a matter of concern to this Parliament. It relates to a wellpublicised appointment to the staff of the future Treasurer, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Information I subsequently received indicates that companies of which that person and her husband were directors, officers and/or shareholders are currently the subject of investigation by the New South Wales Commissioner for Corporate Affairs. I raise this matter because I know that such a suggestion will prompt an immediate investigation by the Government. To raise something such as this is not a light matter. I will be very relieved to know that there is no substance in the information, but I do believe that the information is reliable and that the matter ought to be investigated. 
This is not an issue that can be looked at in isolation. It is an issue which prompts all members of this Parliament to ask pertinent questions as to the types of investigations that are carried out when appointments of this nature are made. It is a very serious matter when information is available which indicates that a person in such a sensitive position with the Deputy Prime Minister, and potentially having access to such sensitive and important information, is involved and has been involved in companies which are currently under investigation by the Commissioner for Corporate Affairs in New South Wales. I think that the House will await with considerable interest the result of the Government's own investigation. I might add that an effort was made to contact the Deputy Prime Minister this evening to indicate that a matter affecting a member of his staff would be raised in the House, but unfortunately he could not be contacted. 
-This Bill belongs to a long category of Bills introduced since December 1972 which illustrate that this Government believes that if there is a malady or a potential malady in the community there is only one way in which to excise it or stop it and that is by regulation. In other words, bring in a law which says that you cannot do that or you have to do this. This legislation, like so many other pieces of legislation, is based on what I believe to be a totally false proposition. On reading the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  I note that he himself does not really in his heart of hearts believe that you can cure wrong doing or you can stop wrong doing by passing laws because there is a very interesting paragraph in that speech at page 132 of Hansard which reads: 
Up to the present Australia has been most fortunate in that it has not suffered any serious electoral malpractices or  Watergate ' and as Australians we tend to pride ourselves in this regard. 
Has it ever occurred to the Minister or to the speakers who have supported him in this debate that it is in those countries that have the sort of absurd restrictions and absurd requirements that this Bill invites that the malady which the Minister seeks to stop with this legislation has occurred? Does he recall that it was in the United States of America with the most complicated laws for the disclosure of political funds which suffered the tragic experience of the fate of both the  President  and the Vice-President? Does it not sink in to the members of the Government that you cannot stop political dishonesty by making laws and passing rules? You cannot do it in that way. You cannot cure all the ills of the Australian society. You cannot stop new ills emerging simply by passing legislation. 
I for my part am totally opposed to the concept which is enshrined in this Bill. I do not believe that the Government has made out a case for this legislation. Throughout the speeches of Government supporters we heard innuendos and suggestions about where there might have been some kind of corruption. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  started to talk about an example. He did not offer any proof. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  expressed tremendous fears about what might possibly happen in the future unless we did something about the situation. He gave absolutely no proof or evidence of political corruption. No case has been made out for this legislation. No demonstrable need for this legislation has been advanced by the Government. Therefore I do not think the House ought to endorse the invasion of privacy, the deprivation of confidentiality and the sheer prying into people's private affairs which are inherent in this legislation. 
The absurdity of the consequences of some provisions of this Bill has already been pointed out very well by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  This Bill represents a natural culmination of a long and paranoic campaign and obsession on the part of the Australian Labor Party about business contributions to the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. I was a little astounded at the speech made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I listened to it with great interest. I respect the contribution which the honourable member for Port Adelaide made as a member of his Party's organisation to the efforts of that Party during the 1972 election campaign, but I was absolutely astounded to hear a man of his political experience say that election campaigns are won and lost during the 3 weeks before the election according to the volume of media advertising which is conducted on a central basis. Surely a person of his political experience realises that if a candidate does not have an election won four or five weeks before the election day he is really uphill to win it. 
What is so really farcical, quite apart from the philosophical objection that can be mounted against this legislation, is the proposition that the expenditure of huge sums of money in an election campaign can change the result. What evidence has been demonstrated to show that elections are won or lost according to the volume of money that has been spent? The honourable member for Port Adelaide cited an example. He talked about my colleague, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  Did it ever occur to him that my colleague, the honourable member for Sturt, may have won his seat back because the people of Sturt, after they had heard my colleague's predecessor, realised that they had made a mistake in 1969? 
I would like to give him an illustration. My predecessor in the 1961 election campaign faced one of the most expensive efforts ever mounted on behalf of an individual member of the Australian Labor Party in the person of the former Lord Mayor of Sydney. The volume of money expended in the Bennelong campaign on behalf of the Australian Labor Party in 1961 would dwarf to pigmy proportions the amount in examples cited by members on the Government side. The amount spent in Bennelong did not alter the result. My predecessor still hung on. So the proposition that elections are won or lost according to the quality of advertising or the amount of money spent on an election campaign is absolute nonsense. I am astounded that people with the political experience of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, and indeed other honourable members who have spoken in this debate on behalf of the Government, should advance that proposition. 
The other thing that intrigues me about this piece of legislation and the arguments that have been advanced by Government speakers is this: 1 wonder how some of the expenditure incurred by the Department of the Media in the name of informing the Australian public would stand examination under some of the clauses and provisions of this Bill, because since this Government came to power we have witnessed a massive increase in the amount of public money expended in the interests of propaganda on behalf of the Government. We even had a situation at the time of the 1974 double dissolution campaign where a very large sum of money was spent on behalf of the Australian Electoral Office, designed to reduce the volume of the informal vote in New South Wales. That sum was expended for one reason- to reduce the volume of the informal vote. Of course, we all know that the Australian Labor Party was petrified that the volume of the informal vote would cause it to lose ground in New South Wales. A great deal of money has been expended on behalf of the Department of the Media in order to explain things to the Australian people- of course, in a completely impartial and non-political manner. These publications often bear, with their pithy, non-political message, a nice glossy photograph of the responsible Minister. I think of that gentleman who is to go to higher places tomorrow. His photograph looked out at me from the information about the Trade Practices Act. I am sure that other honourable members can think of plenty of other examples. 
In the past 2 years we have seen public funds used to put around propaganda on behalf of the Government. This piece of legislation is a phoney piece of legislation. No need has been demonstrated to bring it in. It invades privacy. It is designed to entrench the electoral status quo of political parties in Australia. Why should a political party not find it hard to raise money if it is doing a bad job? My party found it hard to raise money in 1961. 1 speak with some experience of the fund raising fortunes of the New South Wales division of the Liberal Party. Anybody from any side of this House who suggests that political parties find it easy to raise money is, to use an old saying, talking through his hat. All political parties find it difficult to raise moneywhether they are Labor, Liberal, Country Party or otherwise. 
This campaign of vilification of business, this campaign designed to paint a picture of collusion and collaboration between business and the parties with which I am happy to sit on this side of the House, has got out of all proportions. The truth of the matter is that all of us have difficulties in raising money. This piece of legislation is a piece of legislation for which there is absolutely no demonstrable need. I strongly support the rejection in toto of the legislation. 
-This proposal is superficially an attractive one. All of us, no matter on what side of the House we may sit, must at times have been told by constituents: Would it not be a marvellous thing if we could remove these separate Senate elections? Would it not be a marvellous thing if we did not have to have a Senate election within 18 months or so after a House of Representatives election?' I can recall quite clearly our supporters saying that when the Liberal and Country Parties occupied the Treasury benches. I doubt whether the supporters of the present Government said that at the time of the 1 967 Senate elections because it is a fact of political life in Australia that, for one reason or another, separate Senate elections tend to find more favour amongst opposition parties than they do amongst government parties. 
The proposal in this Bill is a superficially attractive proposition. But when one goes beneath the surface, one finds that it is a proposition which does some violence to the place of the Australian Senate in the government of this country. The Australian Senate, in common with most other upper houses of the Westminster system and in fact other parliamentary or congressional traditions, has the feature of being fundamentally a House of review. But in addition the Australian Senate has a number of other features which distinguish it from some other upper houses throughout the world. It is a House which is elected by universal franchise; it is a House which has a built in equality of State representation; and it is a House which, by reason of developments in recent years, is adopting for itself a role quite separate and distinct from the role of upper houses of the various States that make up the Australian Federation. The Senate is essentially a House which is required to take a long view of the legislative processes of this country. It is certainly a House of review, but it is not simply a House of review. It is a House which, by reason of the development of its various committees and the role that it has taken upon itself, is increasingly taking a longer view and making a more detailed consideration of legislation than unfortunately is the case with the popular House of the Australian Parliament. I think on balance that it does considerable violence to the role of the Australian Senate, as it has now evolved, to remove from the Constitution the built in proviso that except in the case of a double dissolution, a person elected to the Senate shall serve a period of not less than 6 years. It is on this argument that I rest my oppostion to the Government 's proposal. 
My colleague from Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has outlined already, better than I could, the political unreality of a Government, which only 9 months ago received a rebuff in this proposal, attempting to crash through with this proposal- to use a description which has often been used of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)-  by presenting it to the Australian people again. My colleague from Stirling  (Mr Viner)  has pointed out already that without the cost of a referendum, without the necessity for this legislation, without the need for this debate, the Government at any time after 1 July this year can bring elections for the Houses of Parliament back into synchronisation in precisely the same way as  Sir Robert  Menzies brought them back into synchronisation in 1955. I am rather surprised that this has not been more freely acknowledged by those who speak in favour of the Government's proposals. I think that of the many issues that have characterised the Whitlam Government in its slightly more than 2 years of office, one that has really categorised it is its mania for seeking to alter the Constitution, its mania for trying to alter the ground rules under which elections in this country are conducted. I am not one of those persons who regard the Constitution of this country as being a static document, a document written for all time in 1901 and a document that should never be altered. I have always believed that the Constitution of Australia must be reviewed constantly and, where necessary, altered. I am just extremely disappointed that a Prime Minister who professes such a commitment to responsible and reasonable constitutional change and reform should have concentrated his energies on the sorts of provisos for constitutional and electoral reform that his Government has sought over the past 2 years. 
So, on balance, I think this is a proposal which the Opposition ought to oppose. To borrow a popular phrase which is often invoked by the Government to criticise the behaviour of the Opposition, the Government clearly has no mandate to resubmit this proposal. I would have thought a decisive defeat on the popular vote and a loss in 5 of the 6 States of Australia ought to have been a clear enough indication to the Government of Australia that the people did not want this change. Secondly, I believe that if this proposal were to pass into law it would alter fundamentally the nature and role of the Senate in the Australian Parliament, a role which in the years to come will be of increasing importance and a role which I believe is contributing greatly to effective government in this country. 
-During the debate on the Privy Council Appeals Abolition Bill, which has just concluded, a considerable amount of time was devoted to a historical consideration of the circumstances which brought the Government to the decision it made to introduce that Bill and also the Privy Council (Appeals from the High Court) Bill that we are now debating. Notwithstanding the force of the arguments the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  used when he closed the debate on the last Billthat there were very strong legal reasons as to why all appeals to the Privy Council, either from the High Court or from other courts within Australia should be abolished- the plain fact of the matter is that the considerations which have brought the Government to the decision it made in respect to both Bills and which, in respect of this Bill we are presently debating, produce total support from the Opposition, are considerations of a political nature. 
The view is now taken by the great majority of Australian citizens that it is no longer consonant with the independent status of Australia as a nation that there should be any resort to courts outside Australia in adjudicating on legal disputes that arise within Australia. That, in crystal clear terms, is the proposition that the House is considering. It is for that reason that we give our support to the proposal of the government to complete the final step in the process that was initiated in 1968 by the then Liberal-Country Party Government to end appeals to the Privy Council from the High Court of Australia. 
This measure, which is extremely short has our full support. As distinct from the steps which have been employed to bring about- so that the Government hopes- the abolition of appeals from State courts to the Privy Council, the process which the Government has employed on this occasion is correct and constitutional. It is wholly consonant with the compact that was made between the Australian States when Federation occurred in 1901. When that Federation occurred a balance- at times we have seen historically an extremely delicate balance- of power was established between the new Federal Government and the various State governments of the Australian Commonwealth. Implicit in that compact that was made between the Australian Colonies, as they then were when they federated to form Australia, was the surrender for all time by the 6 colonies of Australia of any claim that they might have to sovereign rights in the world community. In return there was an implicit understanding, written as far as possible into the Constitution of Australia, that in no circumstances would that delicate balance of power between the Federal government and the State governments be disturbed except by the consent not only of the majority of the Australian people but also by the consent of the majority of the States which formed that Federation and entered into that compact. Whereas the Government in introducing the Bill that we are now debating has observed not only the letter but also the spirit of that compact that was entered into in 1901, it has with equal force disregarded the spirit and letter of that compact in respect of the method it employed in trying to abolish Privy Council appeals in the Bill that we have just debated. 
Included in the constitutional history of Australia is not only the Act of the Imperial Parliament which became our Constitution but also the document known as the Statute of Westminster. I think it is relevant to a consideration of the Bill that we are now debating to recall the circumstances that led up to the enactment of the Statute of Westminster. I do not accept the proposition advanced by the Attorney-General in the earlier debate, that the Statute of Westminsterhis speech implied it- conferred some new method of altering the Australian Constitution on the Imperial Parliament. At no stage during the Federation debates was it ever intended that the Constitution of Australia should be altered in any way other than by the referendum procedure laid down in the Constitution and which we all understand so very wen. So far from section 4 of the Statute of Westminster delineating a new method of altering the Constitution of Australia the purpose of that section was to put to rest the fears that the then dominion governments had that the British Parliament might not have surrendered for aU time the right it had hitherto asserted to pass laws which had application to Australia and the other constituent parts of the then British Commonwealth. 
It has been argued in aid of the Government's moves in respect of abolition of appeals from State courts that this section historically was put in to provide another device for altering the Constitution. I suggest that it does violence to our constitutional history and to our understanding of the circumstances which produced the Statute of Westminster and, most importantly of aU, it does violence to the very thing that the Government has so often tried to assert since it came to government- to try to alter the Australian Constitution by any method other than that described in that document. 
I fully share the sentiments- some of them of nostalgia- which were expressed by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in his speech on the second reading debate of the Privy Council Appeals Abolition Bill earlier this evening. I cannot understand the proposition that was advanced by the Attorney-General in his remarks when he argued that it was necessary for the flowering of the common law in Australia to end for aU time appeals to the Privy Council. I do not think the flowering of the common law in Australia has in any way been hampered or hindered by resort to appeal to the Privy Council. I think by common consent most people would argue that the common law in Australia is in an extremely healthy state. We have heard speakers from both sides of the House argue with tremendous force just how good is the High Court of Australia and just what a contribution to the common law world the High Court of Australia has made. Therefore I find it rather strange for the Attorney-General to suggest that in order to make the common law of Australia flower properly it is necessary to abolish appeals to the Privy Council. 
I do not believe that the health of the legal system in Australia will be tremendously improved or, for that matter, tremendously restricted or hampered by the final abolition of appeals to the Privy Council. So let us have an honest confrontation of the issues that are involved in this debate. It is not a legal debate; it is a debate about the states of Australia in the world of 1975. For that reason the Opposition supports the abolition of appeals from the High Court of Australia to the Privy Council by the method chosen by the Government. For the very same reason, because of the method the Government chose to effect the abolition, we strongly opposed the measure which was just given a third reading because the manner which was employed on that occasion was not consonant with the status of an independent nation in 1975. It was a method that disregarded the historical antecedents of the relationship between the Australian courts and the Privy Council. For those reasons I, too, lend my strong support to the passage of this measure. 
-I direct a question to the Deputy Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the article of the double taxation agreement between Australia and the United Kingdom dealing with the taxation of dividends declared by United Kingdom companies expired in April 1973, that is, 22 months ago? Is it also a fact that negotiations to renew this agreement are still under way? Does this mean that for the past 22 months Australian residents receiving dividends from United Kingdom companies pay 30 per cent of those dividends in United Kingdom tax and are then taxed at the full Australian rate on the residue of 70 per cent? Now that all good socialists regard- private enterprise as being a respectable activity could the Treasurer's Government get together with the socialist government of the United Kingdom and do something about this very unsatisfactory state of affairs? 
-My remarks are exclusively and briefly directed to clause 7 1 which governs the grant of licences by the Commission. I simply inquire of the Attorney-General whether it would not be an act of grace and an act of recognition of the status of existing stock exchanges, and whether the Attorney-General might give consideration to the suggestion that members of existing stock exchanges be given, in the absence of good reasons to the contrary, in effect an automatic grant of a licence. I think there is something which is capable of odium attaching to a procedure whereby every single member of an existing stock exchange, even those with an impeccable reputation, should feel that their right to carry on their profession is in some way in dispute. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and by way of preamble I state that it has been a longstanding convention of the Westminster system of parliamentary government that there be total Cabinet solidarity and Cabinet unanimity on Government policy. Having regard to the honourable gentleman's frequently expressed commitment to the principles of convention so far as they can affect the operation of the parliamentary system and having regard to his invocation of the name of a former Australian Prime Minister- 
-I would like the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to understand one thing about this debate. If I believe that a submission made on this legislation by a body which clearly knows a good deal more about it than certain members of this chamber is a worthwhile submission, I am quite prepared to consider it and argue it. I do not think the cause of proper discussion in this debate will be advanced by the honourable member for Adelaide expressing great frustration because the Opposition seeks to give this Bill some consideration. I was absolutely astounded to hear him remark a few moments ago that the Opposition members were behaving like sycophants. The honourable member said that of course the Government had not had time to consider the stock exchange comment and recommendations. That is precisely the point that we were making. 
-The honourable member for Adelaide said that the Government had not had time. 
-He does not speak for the Government. Already divisions are appearing in the ranks of the Government over this Bill. The fact of the matter is that there are a few members of the Government Party who are starting to be a bit worried that this legislation is being rushed. If the honourable member for Adelaide was really faithful to what he said a few moments ago he should have come over to this side of the chamber and supported the second reading amendment that was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  I think that this Bill belongs to that category of Bills which the Government has decided - 
The  CHAIRMAN  The honourable member has been speaking for about 2 minutes. I remind him of what I have told other honourable members, and that is that they should speak to the clauses which are being discussed. I have allowed him a little lattitude, but cross-talk about how the Bill should be debated is not relevant to the clauses in the Bill. 
I am grateful for your ruling,  Mr Chairman.  I would like very quickly to add to what the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said about clause 20(2)(c). He described it as a Henry VIII clause. I think that clause 20(2 )(c) illustrates that to a very large extent this legislation must have been drafted in great haste because it has all the indications that the draftsmen and the Attorney-General thought: 'Maybe there is something that we left out; so we will clothe this Commission with a bit more power'. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  has drawn attention already to the criteria which ought to govern the GovernorGeneral's determination when he appoints the members of the Commission. I support what the honourable member said. Probably the most important single act that might be performed under this legislation is the appointment of the personnel to the Commission. I would hope, in view of the acknowledgment that the AttorneyGeneral now gives by nodding his head, that some consideration will be given to an expansion of that definition. 
-I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  whether, having regard to the enormous powers which will be vested in the Commission and to the unsatisfactory absence of an appeal against its decisions except the ultimate Government control to which he has alluded, he is totally satisfied with the disclosure provisions of clause 39. Is he satisfied that it is sufficient simply to inform the Commission? I ask this in no querulous sense and, to my knowledge, my comments do not coincide with the comments made by any stock exchange association or any other vilified vested interest group. I simply inquire of the Attorney-General whether, having regard to the extraordinary powers of the Commission, it is a satisfactory state of affairs, for example, for a member of the Commission who has a substantial financial holding in a particular class of security to disclose his interest. I ask this question not frivolously but in the light of the attitude that the Attorney-General's own Government takes on the question of disclosure of interests. In the interests of consistency in the Government's approach to the disclosure of interests by persons who can be said to have a fiduciary interest in a matter, is it sufficient merely for the Bill to require that the commissioner shall inform the Commission of the interest that he holds? I would be interested to hear the Attorney-General's comments on that. 

 Mr ENDERBY (Canberra-Attorney- General (17)-I consider that the provision is sufficient. The obligation is there to disclose the conflicting interest and a very heavy penalty- $2,000 or imprisonment for 6 months- is provided for non-compliance. The clause goes beyond that and deals with other relationships that otherwise might be difficult to prove. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  may be wondering what follows the disclosure. I put it to him that 2 things suffice to ensure complete protection. The first is the quality and standard of the Commission itself and the job it has to do. The second is the power of government in the ultimate resort and the power of the Governor-General acting on the advice of government if necessary to take appropriate action. But more important than either of those things is the fact that one of the amendments that I will be moving will change the part that takes out the prerogative writs. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman knows what I mean. I think he has studied law. The writs of prohibition, certiorari and mandamus will now be part of it, apart from and in addition to where they are enshrined in the Constitution. In a situation of conflict of that sort, with its obvious breach of natural justice, the prerogative writs obviously would be applicable. 
-I would like to pursue briefly the point just made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  The justification that the Attorney-General  (Mr 
Enderby) has given for excluding public statutory corporations is that the Government is merely following the normal practice in respect of these bodies. 
-I am not suggesting that there is any evidence of mischief. I am merely saying that the justification given by the AttorneyGeneral for excluding public statutory corporations is that that has always been done in the past and there is no strong reason for departing from the practice. I put to the Committee that the nature of the Australian Industry Development Corporation is something quite different from that of the normal public statutory corporation, such as, for example, the New South Wales Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board. I can understand the Attorney-General's argument in respect of the exclusion of a public statutory corporation such as that, but I do not think that it can seriously be suggested that the AIDC, which is a public statutory corporation, comes out of the same stable as the New South Wales Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board, the Sydney County Council or any of the other statutory bodies that issue debentures and raise money from the public. The AIDC is in the business of buying and selling securities in a big way. To that extent to categorise it with the ordinary public statutory corporations and therefore justify the exclusion of all such corporations on the grounds that it has been the practice in the past and there is no good reason for departing from that practice is I think, with respect to the Attorney-General, not being either logical or persuasive. 
I too think that clause 61 should be deleted without any equivocation. I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  before he replies to consider that this clause permits by Executive warrant, without any prior inquiry, what could be potentially the most devastating economic action that any government could take. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  is expressing some dissent from that. Has he any conception of what would happen if through a foolhardy act a government closed down the Sydney or Melbourne Stock Exchange? 
-I am sorry. 
-The honourable member for Hunter thinks it is perfectly all right for any government, whether or not it is of his persuasion, without any resort to Parliament and without any requirement for prior inquiry, by Executive warrant to close down a stock exchange. I do not think that honourable members opposite who support that proposition have any real conception of what total economic chaos and collapse would occur if that happened. They have no conception of the enormous financial devastation that would be incurred by small investors and by large investors if a stock exchange were closed down. Do they realise that if that were to occur it might be decades before real financial confidence was restored in this community? People would lose millions of dollars if this were to occur. I am not suggesting to the Committee that it is beyond possibility that in very extraordinary circumstances it might be necessary for a government at some stage in the future to do it, but what I am protesting about and what the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  protested about is a blanket Executive warrant being given by this Bill to the government of the day by a blunt action to close down any one of the stock exchanges of Australia. 
If a government felt that it was necessary to do this, why could it not introduce a special Act of Parliament? If the Attorney-General finds that unacceptable, will he consider writing into the Bill some proviso for affirmative resolutions of both Houses of Parliament; or is the attitude of the Government simply: 'Oh no, it does not matter'? If at the Executive caprice of a government a stock exchance can be closed down, I seriously wonder whether honourable members opposite who support the potential use of the power contained in this clause have any real conception of just what damage would be done if a mistake were made in the exercise of that power. I am not being obstructionist. I think that this goes to the very heart of the criticisms that have been made of this Bill. It is no use honourable members opposite interjecting and saying: 'If it is in the interests of the people to stop the marauders and the robbers we will close down the exchange'. In the process of stopping those marauders and robbers they would be robbing many innocent, honest people of money and causing total economic chaos. I am not suggesting that the situation might not conceivably arise when the sort of power which is envisaged would be exercised. If that were the case I think the proper course of action would be to introduce a special Act of Parliament. I ask the Attorney-General very sincerely and in no sense of being an obstructionist to reconsider seriously whether this clause ought to remain in the legislation. 
I raise a practical point on clause 91(2). I am quite aware of the enormous desirability of having such a requirement. Having handled and continuing to handle trust moneys I fully understand the desirability. I just wonder whether the apparent automatic penalty imposed by sub-clause (5) could perhaps be ameliorated by the inclusion of some words to the effect of 'without reasonable cause'. I am just a little concerned at the sort of holiday situation that might possibly arise where for extremely good reason a payment of moneys that ought to be held in trust is delayed beyond the requirement in sub-clause (2). I think the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  understands the practical point to which I am alluding. 
-My plea to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in respect of sub-clause (2) is purely related to time. I accept and endorse all of the arguments that the Attorney-General has advanced. I am just worried about the requirement that the words of the sub-clause are mandatory. To the best of my recollection and belief in New South Wales, for example, the Legal Practitioners Act does not impose any time limit; it simply imposes the requirement that the money should be held in trust and kept separate. I just ask the AttorneyGeneral to consider the possible relation of subclause (5) on the time limit in sub-clause (2). 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 105 to 113- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 114. 
Sub-section ( 1 ) does not preclude a person purchasing or selling securities or causing or procuring the purchase or sale of securities- 
in the ordinary course of trading on the stock market maintained or provided by a registered stock exchange; 
from or to a person (other than a person associated with the first-mentioned person) whose ordinary business or a part of whose ordinary business is the purchase or sale of securities, whether as principal or agent; or 
-In supporting the remarks made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I merely refer the Committee to the provisions of clause 39 of this Bill and the arguments advanced by the Attorney-General in answer to a query that I raised. Apparently in respect of membership of the Commission it' is sufficient if members disclose their interest. There is no disbarment for a member of the Commission to hold an interest in a corporation in respect of which a decision might be made by the Commission. Apparently a person who happens to be a stockbroker or, to use the language of the Bill, a dealer and who may not have potentially the same right to affect the fortunes of the shares of the company of which he might aspire to be a director, is to be placed under a more severe penalty than is a person who is a member of the Commission to be established under this Bill. It seems to me that if the Government is really serious on the issue of conflict of interest, of fiduciary responsibilities, there has to be some consistency about the matter. The Government should either afford the same respect to the integrity of dealers under clause 1 15 or impute the same motives of malice to members of the Commission that it apparently imputes to dealers under clause 115. I do not think that the Government can have it both ways. 
I find quite unreal the proposition that the legislation presumes the abuse of inside knowledge and a breach of fiduciary duty. Certainly there is plenty of evidence to support my contention. It has been alluded to time and time again by Government speakers during this debate. Indeed, when they run out of logical explanation to support a clause in this Bill, the standard fallback argument is 'Oh, look at what the Rae Committee said'. I accept what the Rae Committee said. I accept that there were some abuses and that some dealers, or stockbrokers as I prefer to call them, abused their inside knowledge and their privilege. To deny to the commercial life of the City of Sydney or the City of Melbourne- indeed of any of the major cities of Australia- the advantage and expertise that many dealers will be able to bring to the commercial affairs of companies is to be totally unrealistic. It is quite inconsistent to impute to them a considerably lower degree of honour than is to be imputed to other members of the commercial community and to members of the Commission who, I think everybody in this Committee would concede, will have enormous powers under this legislation. I totally share the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton that the Opposition is quite opposed to this clause. 
-The simple point I make is that whereas under clause 39 it is possible for a member of the Commission to make a decision which will affect the commercial fortunes of a company in which he holds shares, it is not possible for a dealer in shares under clause 1 15 to be a director and therefore influence the commercial future of such a company. That is the analogy I draw. I think it is a valid analogy; I think there is a conflict. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  argues that the provisions of clause 26 prohibit a member of the Commission from being a director of any company. He draws my attention to clause 26 (2) (c), which reads: 
engages in paid employment outside the duties of his office; I know that the bounty of charity around the various commercial centres of Australia is not all that great, but there are some people who act as directors of companies who, I submit, might not necessarily fall within the definition contained in clause 26 (2) (c). 
-We are talking about a legislative enactment of this Parliament and not the discretion of the Attorney-General. 
1 merely draw attention again to the proposition that has been advanced many times during this debate by my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  namely, that in many clauses in this Bill we find evidence of a presumption of wrongdoing and guilt on the part of stock exchange members and dealers. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has categorised clause 267 in very eloquent language. I think it opens up a field for potential pimps. To write into a piece of legislation a provision that without the existence of any just cause, excuse or reason for suspecting wrongdoing an officer of the Commission shall be entitled to attend meetings of this nature is to so extend the surveillance of the Commission into the private affairs of members of an exchange as to defy justification. At no stage during the second reading debate did any honourable member supporting this legislation advance reasons for this sweeping provision. The conditions contained in the other clauses lay down very stringent surveillance measures. Before the Government commits itself irrevocably to clause 267 as it stands, just let it ponder for a moment precisely what it means. If the Attorney-General refers by analogy to other associations of professional people, is he suggesting for a moment that in future a member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should attend the meetings of the interstate executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? Is he suggesting that a member of the council of the law societies of any of the Australian States ought to attend partners' meetings of the larger firms of the cities because at some remote time in the future some of the partners might consider a fiddle of their trust accounts? That is the sort of analogy that this type of proviso draws to mind. It represents such an intrusion into the normal commercial privacy to which people who are trying to carry on commercial activity would be subjected that I entreat the Attorney-General, if he is not disposed to take the requirement out, at least to write into it the proviso that there must be good grounds for a member of the Commission to attend. 
I support, indeed I seconded, the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  The sole purpose of that amendment, despite what may already have been alleged in this debate and despite what may be alleged later in this debate, was to give a general expression to the concern felt by a wide range of people on certain aspects of the Bill. I think it would be fair to say that there are some people in the community who would like to see the Bill totally defeated, that there are some who would like to see the Bill carried without amendment and that there is a great number of others who would like to see the Bill carried with amendments. It is for that reason and because this legislation touches so directly the most intimate and personal of all the human relationships in our society that those of us who support the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill thought that by presenting that amendment we could crystallise in some way the feelings of those people who have reservations about the Bill. 
For my part, I do not wish to see the Bill defeated in its entirety. I do not wish a decision unduly delayed on the Bill. I believe that a very adequate period of time has elapsed for examination of the main thrust of the Bill. There have been plenty of opportunities for people who have opinions for and against the Bill to press their opinions on members of this Parliament. I make but one comment about the whole range of opinions that have been expressed about this Bill- I do not believe, on the one hand, that the passage of this Bill will annihilate overnight the institution of marriage or destroy the real strength of the great majority of marriages in our society. Nor, on the other hand, do I believe, as many of the protagonists of this Bill have alleged, that its passage in unamended form will produce some kind of Utopian atmosphere surrounding the process of divorce. Divorce is unhappy. It is unpleasant. The fracture of such a deep human relationship is an emotional and unhappy experience. 
Of all the propaganda that has been advanced in aid of this Bill, the most mischievous, in my view, has been the allegation that the only thing which really causes the misery and unhappiness associated with the dissolution of marriage is the existing matrimonial causes law. This legislation is unique, and we must approach it as such, because no legislation which deals with the most sensitive and personal of all human relationships can possibly be neutral in its impact on those relationships. For anybody to suggest that the passage of this legislation will not have some long term impact on the general community attitude towards marriage and on the general community attitude towards relationships between men and women within marriage is, I think, to fail to understand the real impact of social legislation in our society. 
In looking at this legislation, I ask myself 2 questions; I apply 2 tests to the legislation. It is against the criteria of those 2 tests that I judge the legislation. The first criterion is that any law dealing with divorce must be humane, relatively inexpensive and speedy for those who must have resort to it. The second criterion is that it must give proper expression to community attitudes towards divorce. I believe that many of the amendments to the existing matrimonial causes law that have been foreshadowed in the Family Law Bill represent considerable advances on unsatisfactory situations. 
In particular, I welcome the abolition of discretion statements. In practising from time to time in the divorce jurisdiction, I have always found the current requirement in the law, that a discretion statement be obtained where appropriate from a petitioner, a humiliating, embarrassing and unnecessary personal inquiry. Secondly, I welcome the provision proposing closed courts. I know that this proposal has been met with some controversy from members of the legal profession who regard it as a most fundamental pillar of our society that the judicial process should as far as possible be open to public scrutiny. Whilst I accept the force of that argument, I believe that, on balance, the uniquely personal nature of matrimonial causes proceedings demands that, except in special circumstances, courts be closed. 
The third aspect of the legislation that I particularly welcome is the recognition of the nonfinancial contribution of parties to a marriage which is contained in clause 79 of the Bill. 1 read the relevant paragraph of sub-clause (4): 
The contribution made directly or indirectly to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the property of either party, including any contribution made in the capacity of homemaker or parent - 
I believe that that provision is the first legislative expression which has been given to a growing demand in our society that, in adjudicating on and assessing financial relationships between a husband and a wife, both in a divorce situation and in an estate situation, proper and adequate recognition be made of non-financial contributions made to the relationship and to the acquisition of the matrimonial assets. 
Inevitably, when one applies the 2 tests which I mentioned a moment ago one comes to the question of non-fault. In some ways, the supporters of this Bill are prepared to sacrifice everything on the alter of the non-fault concept. Those of us who support the amendment that has been moved, and those in the community who oppose some aspects of the Family Law Bill, have been accused of sacrificing everything, so far as divorce law is concerned, on the alter of what the former Attorney-General of this Commonwealth described as 'ecclesiastical garbage'. If it is wrong to have our matrimonial laws dominated by what the former Attorney described as 'ecclesiastical garbage', it is equally wrong to sacrifice everything on the altar of non-fault. I believe that in a great number of casesprobably the majority of cases- it is possible and overwhelmingly desirable to eliminate allegations of misconduct and allegations of fault But I believe with equal force that in some cases you cannot eliminate allegations of misconduct and allegations of fault without doing to some people in the community a greater injustice than the result that you are trying to achieve and more unpleasantness than you are trying to eliminate by doing away with allegations of fault. 
This morning the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  in speaking in support of the amendment, described some of the criteria that he thought ought to be applied so far as a breakdown in marriage is concerned. When he was speaking I was reminded of 2 points made in the speech of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  recently. In that speech the Minister, amongst other things, advanced 2 interesting propositions. Firstly, he said that the words 'irretrievable breakdown' had been used within the context of clause 48 because of their enormous propaganda value. Secondly, he said he believes that the law, so far as is possible, should buttress sound custom. I think that all of us in this House believe that stable marriage is a sound custom. Those of us who approach marriage from a religious standpoint and those of us who approach marriage from a completely secular standpoint would agree that it is a sound custom to have stable marriages in our society. 
From my examination of clause 48, which is really the thrust of the Bill, I applaud the attempt made to eliminate, as far as possible, allegations of misconduct, but I deprecate what is inherent in clause 48, and that is the proposition that in all cases it is possible to eliminate allegations of misconduct. I for my part would support- I hope to do so at the Committee stage of this debate- an amendment to clause 48 which would introduce 3 criteria for the dissolution of a marriage. The first criterion is that a dissolution of marriage could be granted after 2 years continuous separation, whether or not the separation occurred at the instance of both parties. The second criterion is that a party should be entitled to obtain a dissolution of marriage after 12 months separation if the court is satisfied that both parties genuinely desire a divorce. The third criterion relates to what I might categorise in a second reading debate context as a general dragnet provision that persons ought to be able to obtain a dissolution of marriage immediately if there are grave and weighty reasons for such a course of action. 
I do not support the reintroduction into the Family Law Bill of the specific grounds of adultery and desertion. I respect the views of those who feel that any divorce law should contain, as a specific ground, the ground of adultery. I would prefer that insofar as any amendment to the Family Law Bill reintroduces the concept of fault, the concept of an objective test, it should be based on grave and weighty grounds. I remind the House of one of the examples which the honourable member for Parramatta used in his speech this morning. Under the proposed law, the Bill that we are debating this afternoon, if a party to a marriage found that the other party treated him or her with great and continual cruelty from the time that they were married, it would be necessary for the party so treated to separate and remain apart for a period of 12 months before he or she could start divorce proceedings. Under the present law, the so-called antiquated Barwick law, it would be quite possible for that person to commence proceedings immediately. It is that sort of situation, that sort of conduct- not a large number of cases but a significant number- that this amendment covers. 
I think all honourable members will be aware of the very unhappy incidence of wife bashing that occurs in our community. It is all very well for those who are prepared to sacrifice everything on the altar of no fault to say: 'Those people can wait for 12 months. Those people can avail themselves of the injunctive proceedings. ' But I ask: Is there any justice in a situation like that? Is there anything humane in a situation like that where a person, having suffered such indignities and such cruelties, has to wait a period of 12 months before taking action? That is not progressive; in my view, that is totally regressive. 
Of all the speeches that have been made in favour of the Bill in its present form, the one that impressed me most was that made by my colleague the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  He advanced a very thoughtful examination of the changing relationship between men and women, not only in marriage but also in society. I acknowledge much of what the honourable member said to be a very accurate statement of the present situation. It is impossible to examine a divorce law in our present society without taking some note of the changing roles of men and women inside marriage. I have believed for a long time that the changes that have occurred in the status of women in our society have been a considerable advance. There is no doubt that a generation ago many women faced overwhelming social pressure to conform to the traditional pattern of an exclusive mother and wife role within marriage. That has changed. 
The time has now arrived when it is possible for women in our society to exercise more and more an effective choice as to the type of role they should adopt without in any way feeling that their role is any less or that they are under any social pressure to conform to a traditional role. I very strongly welcome that trend. I think it is a proper trend and one that recognises reality. For my part, I have a very simple attitude to it. I support any legislation- I think this is relevant to the Family Law Bill- which makes it possible for men and women in our society to exercise a complete choice as to the type of role they should adopt. I enter only one qualification. I very strongly believe that, a married couple having decided to have children, and in our society it is quite possible for them consciously and deliberately to exercise this choice in a way that was not possible a generation ago, it is the prime responsibility of both of them- not just the wife- to defer their own interests to the interests of their children in their early years. 
I commend this amendment to the House. I believe that it gives to honourable members the opportunity to express a general view towards marriage and towards the sort of divorce law that we have in our society. I hope that when the House votes on the Minister's amendment it will do so uncluttered by any considerations of delay or frustration that may occur in the passage of this legislation. I repeat that it is not the intention of those who support this amendment to kill the Bill. It is not our intention to frustrate and delay the Bill. It is our intention to obtain from this House a general expression of opinion on the principles set forth in our amendment. I regard the amendment of section 48 as being very important. We can deal with that in Committee, but I ask all members of the House, whatever their views on the legislation may be, when they vote on the Minister's second reading amendment to make an assessment of the principles set out in that amendment and to disregard any suggestionswhich I repeat are unfounded- that the purpose of this amendment is to obstruct, delay and kill the Bill. 
-by leave-My speech will be short. I join with the honourable member for Fraser (  Mr Fry)  in commending this report to the House. I wish to make 3 points very quickly. First, I compliment the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator Milliner,  on the manner in which he conducted the inquiry by that Committee into this matter. I express the view that at all stages the Committee's deliberations on the form of self government which should be adopted for the Australian Capital Territory were approached in a non-partisan way and in a non-political fashion. This exercise was perhaps the first time since Federation when a committee of any Parliament in Australia had had the opportunity, as it were, of starting from scratch and drawing up an outline of the form of self government for a part of the Australian Commonwealth. I think the report will be read with interest not only by residents of the A.C.T. but also throughout Australia by students of systems of government. I join with the honourable member for Fraser in commending the report to the House. 
-My remarks in the adjournment debate tonight are directed to the behaviour of the Government which has led to the rupturing of sporting relations between Australia and South Africa in the area of cricket. I make no apology for raising this issue. I know that some people in this House and elsewhere will claim that in some way I am an apologist for apartheid, that in some way I am trying to embrace the policies of the South African Government. But I believe that the issues which are involved in this dispute go to the very heart of our attitudes towards relations with other countries. I also wish to express, as a keen follower of cricket all my life and as a person who has looked forward for a number of years to competition between Australian and South African teams, my great disappointment with what has happened. 
The argument which has been advanced by the Government in support of the attitude it has adopted towards cricket contests between Australia and South Africa is that South African cricket teams are chosen on a racial basis, that is, that they are chosen on a basis which prevents persons of mixed and coloured blood from participating in South African teams which play against those of other countries. That is the basis. In other words, the Government refuses to have any contact with South Africa at a cricketing level because it disagrees with the process by which the persons with whom Australian teams come into contact are chosen. That is the principle involved. 
-The honourable member for Robertson agrees with me that that is the principle involved. I am very glad that both the honourable member for Robertson and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  agree that that is the basis upon which the Government has arrived at its attitude because if we apply that principle to the Government's relations not only with the governments of other countries but also with bodies sent by other countries we find an alarming double standard. I ask: If it is fair for the Government, in respect to sporting contests with South Africa, to deny contact because it disagrees with the process by which the teams are chosen why does the Government not deny contact with the government of any country which is chosen by other than a democratic process? That is the principle involved. The honourable member for Robertson looks rather surprised. Perhaps I should explain it to him again. If the Government argues against contact with South African cricket teams because it disagrees with the process by which those teams are chosen it ought to be at least consistent and argue against contact with the governments of other countries in relation to which it disagrees with the processes by which those governments are chosen. I think that it is to violate a very important principle of our international relations to adopt such a double standard. 
Why for example, in the face of a massive security problem and in the face of clear evidence that the people of Australia did not want the Yugoslav Prime Minister,  Mr Bijedic,  to come here shortly after the Government came to office, did the Government go ahead with the visit? It went ahead with the visit simply on the basis that even though we disagree with the method by which the Yugoslav Government was chosen and even though we disagree with the ideology of that country there is no reason in the world why we should not, in the interests of broadening our horizons and in the interests of having good relations with all countries irrespective of their regimes, still receive the Yugoslav Prime Minister. I, like all other honourable members on this side of the House, look forward to the day when apartheid in South Africa is relaxed. I abhor apartheid just as much as any member of the Australian Labor Party. 
-What am I going to do about it? 
-I ask the honourable member for Robertson what he and his Government propose to do about the unsatisfactory features of other countries throughout the world. If the honourable member for Robertson can explain to me why his Government remains absolutely mute and silent about the unsatisfactory aspects of other countries throughout the world, I will be prepared to concede in this House that my attitude is inconsistent. But until such time as the Government can explain away the inconsistency in its attitude towards sporting contests with South Africa, I believe that not only members of this House but also members of the Australian community are entitled to say that it is no business of the Government to deny those sporting contests. It is not going to assist the breaking down of apartheid to deny sporting contests between Australia or any other country and South Africa. I know that the South African regime is abhorrent to all honourable members in this House, but there are many other regimes throughout the world which are equally if not more abhorrent. 
I can remember that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was returning home from his recent visit to everywhere he called in for a few minutes to talk to the Prime Minister of Pakistan,  Mr Bhutto.  The same  Mr Bhutto  was the apologist in the United Nations Security Council for the action of the Pakistan Government in suppressing the independence movement, the national liberation movement- mark the words the national liberation movement'- in Pakistan during the Pakistan civil war in 1 97 1 . If honourable members opposite argue that what happens in Indo-China is an expression of national liberation, equally I will argue that what happened in Pakistan during 1971 was an expression of national liberation on the part of the Bengali people. Of course, it led to the foundation of Bangladesh. It is apparently perfectly all right for the Prime Minister to go to Pakistan and to say to the Prime Minister of Pakistan: 'We are your friends. We are keen to help you. We are keen to be friends with you', notwithstanding the fact that 2 years earlier that man stood up in the Security Council of the United Nations, as the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, and defended every act of the then Pakistan military regime. Of course I think it is all right for the Prime Minister to do it, but what I want from honourable members opposite is some kind of consistency in their attitude towards relations with other countries. 
I believe that it has become popular folklore throughout the world to single out South Africa because South Africa cannot do anything in retaliation. South Africa is in relative international terms a very small and insignificant country. But that does not alter the principle that if the foreign relations of this country are going to be conducted with any consistency and if we are ever going to achieve a situation in which the horrible racial discrimination which does occur in South Africa and which is probably a level of racial discrimination which is duplicated in many countries throuhout the world is ever going to be broken down we are not going to break it down by hermetically sealing off South Africa from the rest of the world, we are not going to break it down by having no contact with the South Africans and we are certainly not going to break it down by preventing cricket contests between South Africa and Australia. 
-by leave-In also commending the report to the House I make 2 observations further to those made by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  Firstly, I point out that the procedure adopted for considering the proposals which are covered by the report is the first occasion on which the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has followed the revised arrangements for notification of intentions to modify or vary the plan of layout of the city of Canberra. In this regard I particularly draw the attention of honourable members to appendix A of the report which is a copy of a letter from the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  to  Senator Milliner,  the  Chairman  of the Committee. I also commend to the House the concluding remarks of the honourable member for Fraser regarding the Committee's consideration of the Molonglo Arterial which is an issue of considerable importance to the people of Canberra and in respect of which the Committee is hopeful that it will report at a very early date. 

 -Mr Speaker, this debate has been remarkable - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put 

<graphic href="094131197504083_39_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="094131197504083_39_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Killen's amendment)  be so added. 
I think the House should be indebted to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  for having restored to this debate, so far as the Opposition side is concerned, a level of rationality and a level of calm discussion that unfortunately was absent during the earlier part of the debate. He was at least gracious enough to concede that the sincerity with which members of the Liberal and Country Parties oppose racial discrimination is not in dispute. There is a difference of opinion in this House on this legislation but it is not a difference of opinion regarding the abhorrence of racial discrimination; it is rather a difference of opinion as to the best method by which the problem of racial discrimination in our society can be handled. 
I do not want to canvass the evidence of racial discrimination, much of which has already been alluded to during the earlier part of the debate. There is no doubt that in certain areas of Australia the level and the incidence of racial discrimination is totally unacceptable and that methods must be devised to eradicate such incidence and to bring down such level. I put it to the Government that there is room in the context of this debate for the view that the real path to tolerance between the races and between persons of different race is not primarily to be found through legislative coercion. In preparing my remarks for tonight's debate I read a document which was prepared, I think about the middle of last year, and which was sent out under cover of a letter from the Commissioner for Community Relations, the former Federal member for Riverina. In that document the case was explicitly argued. It represented an examination of the policies of the various political parties and the experience of similar legislation overseas. It was expressly conceded that the best hope of advancing the field of the elimination of racial discrimination was to be found in the processes of conciliation and of education. That is the basis on which the Opposition, during the Committee stage, will bring forward a number of amendments to this legislation. 
We concede- no, we go further, we totally endorse- the declared intention of this legislation to eliminate forms of racial discrimination. We accept that they do exist in our society. We recognise the need for the legislation. We merely quarrel with the Government on the best way in which remedial action should be taken. Just as there is room in this debate for a view that the best way to tolerance is not necessarily through legislative coercion, it is equally true that there is no room for the view that the essential liberties of people in any society are not necessarily to be protected in the ultimate by the passage of legislation which lays down explicit rules as to what rights people have, as to what rights people can enjoy and as to what things people can and cannot do. 
During the Committee stages of this debate the Opposition will propose a series of amendments, the main thrust of which will be that if a person complains that he or she has been the victim of discriminator)' conduct of the kind prescribed by the Bill that person may make a complaint to the Commissioner who then would be obliged under the terms of the Bill to bring together in consultation the person making the complaint and the person against whom the complaint has been made and, in an effort to effect a reconciliation, for them to state their differences and perhaps in the process to impart to the alleged offender, the alleged discriminator, some of the understanding to which the honourable member for Robertson rightly referred in his remarks. If that process of conciliation fails we believe then and only then that there should be a right of civil action available to the person who complains that he or she has been the subject of discrimination. I know that there will be some on the Government side who will immediately say that the Opposition is speaking with 2 voices, that on the one hand we say that we are against racial discrimination but on the other hand we want so to emasculate the Bill that it will not be possible for any effective steps to be taken against the incidence of racial discrimination in our society. 
-That is an argument that I know will be put forward. Judging from his reaction, the Attorney-General probably will put it forward. But I point out that for the greater part of Australia this legislation breaks new ground. I know there is similar legislation in South Australia and in similar societies in other parts of the world. But for the great majority of the Australian people this legislation does break a new field. In our society there is a very strong body of opinion- it was given eloquent expression by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)that  we will not lessen the incidence of racial tension and racial discrimination by passing fairly stringent laws about it. So taking these factors into account I think there is a case for saying that at the beginning we ought to adopt a rather soft approach as a first step. 
I would not argue that the sort of legislative pattern that the Opposition will outline during the Committee stages of the debate would be perfect for all time. It may well be that in the light of experience of legislation of that nature it will be necessary to strengthen it. It may well be that the arguments that have been advanced in support of this legislation by the Government after the passage of time will be proved to be correct. I would not be so dogmatic as to say that that will not be the case, but what I do say is that the Government at least ought to consider that as a first step something rather less drastic and draconian than what is proposed by the Bill in its present form be considered. Above all, if this legislation is to have value the value is to be found in the consultation, the conciliation and the education provisions. So if the Bill is amended to make the main focus of it on consultation, conciliation and education I think the prospects of it achieving the objective which it is declared it sets out to achieve are far more likely to be achieved. 
Legislation of a roughly similar nature to that proposed by the Government has been passed, I understand, in the United Kingdom. I know that and I know equally well that conciliation committees are established under that legislation. I know that they have been successful, but I would ask the Government to consider the fact that, while there is a problem of racial discrimination in Australia, there are significant differences between the problem that we have and the problem experienced in the United Kingdom. One of the great difficulties about this legislation, because it is to have Australia-wide application, is that while there are serious problems in certain areas of Australia there are large areas of Australia where legislation in the form proposed by the Government could be quite inappropriate, for the reasons outlined by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and others, particularly as it is a first go at some kind of legislative proscription of racial discrimination. I ask the Government to give some consideration to those proposals in the Committee stages. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and committed pro forma. 
Progress reported. 
-I am indebted to you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I propose to move amendment No. 20 standing in my name. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I am pointing out that if the Minister's amendment is approved, then it would be necessary for the honourable member to address himself to the remarks of the Minister. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-clause ( 3 ). 
This amendment aims to omit sub-clause (3) from clause 8. Existing sub-clause (3) provides that Part II of the Act which prohibits racial discrimination, shall not apply to distinctions, exclusions, restrictions or preferences between Australian citizens and persons who are not Australian citizens. The Opposition does not believe that persons living in this country who are not legally Australian citizens should not be disentitled to the benefit which it is sought to give to 
Australian citizens under this Act. We can see no good reason why an act of discrimination against a person living in Australia who is not a naturalised Australian citizen should not attract the same provisions as acts of discrimination against persons who are Australian citizens. We can see no good reason why this distinction should be made by this legislation. 
-I should have earlier moved an amendment to clause 22 which has been circulated in my name. It simply substitutes the word 'shall' for the word 'may'. I move. 
In sub-clause (2) omit 'may', substitute 'shall'. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2). 
This amendment seeks to omit the second part of clause 26. Once again, this is really consequential upon the Opposition's approach to the legislation. This sub-clause of clause 26 as it now stands contemplates a right in the Commissioner to institute proceedings. The Opposition's amendment would take away that right and it would be superfluous to include that sub-clause. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2), insert the following sub-clause: '(2a) It is unlawful for a trade union or any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of a trade union to prevent another person from offering for employment or from continuing in employment by reason of the race, colour, or national or ethnic origin of that other person or of any relative or associate of that other person. ' 
The purpose of this amendment is to add a further category of persons or bodies to those categories already in clause 15 regarding acts of discrimination in respect of employment. The Opposition believes that there is merit in including in clause 15 a proviso making it unlawful for a trade union, or any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of a trade union, to prevent another person offering for employment or continuing in employment by reason of race, colour or national or ethnic origin. It is interesting to comment that clause 14 prohibits the rules or other documents constituting or governing the activities of a trade union imposing any kind of hindrance regarding the joining of that union by reason of race or colour. We therefore think that the Bill does not complete this process in a logical sequence by making it unlawful for the right of a person to offer and gain employment to be interfered with by a trade union on account of race or ethnic or national origin. 
I think it is a commitment of all the major political parties of this country to make unlawful any incidence of discrimination in employment whether it be on the grounds of race, sex, colour or political or other opinions. It is certainly the declared policy of the Opposition parties that discrimination on that basis shall be unlawful. We think that the addition of the amendment I have moved would catch another category of acts of discrimination. There is evidence that trade unions and persons acting on behalf of trade unions have interfered with other persons in the circumstances contemplated by the amendment, and the Opposition sees good reason for its inclusion. 
I move: 
Insert the following clause: ' 16a. It is unlawful for a person: 
to incite the doing of an act that is unlawful by reason of a provision of this Part, or 
to assist or promote whether by financial assistance or otherwise the doing of such an act' 
For the benefit of honourable members, I point out that for the purpose of this debate the proposed new clause 16A should be treated as the Opposition's substitute clause for clause 29. At a later stage in the debate we will be moving for the deletion of clause 29. The purpose of proposed new clause 1 6 A is to bring the penalties or consequences in this Part of the Bill for inciting unlawful acts or providing financial assistance for the doing of any such acts into line with the pattern which the Opposition would hope to write into this Bill and to which I alluded in my speech in the second reading debate last evening; that is, if a person complains that something deemed in the legislation to be unlawful has been done by another person, then the person making the complaint goes to the Commissioner and the Commissioner convenes a conference between the person complaining and the person complained about, endeavours to effect a reconciliation between them- a settlement of their differences- and then and only then, if the complainant still is not satisfied, the complainant has the right of civil action against the person whose behaviour has been called in to question. 
I know the argument that an act of inciting racial discrimination is in some respects more despicable than individual acts of racial discrimination, because the presence of intent by a person who incites an act of racial discrimination can hardly be called in to question whereas the intent of a person who commits an act of racial discrimination- certainly some of the acts of racial discrimination as they are prescribed in the language of this legislation- may not be quite the same malicious intent as that of the person who incites. In some respects this proposition is analogous to a comparison between a drug pusher and a drug user. But, that notwithstanding, the Opposition feels that the penalty or the consequences for inciting an act of racial discrimination ought still to be civil matters and that they ought to follow the pattern which the Opposition has endeavoured to establish with its other amendments to the procedures to follow complaints of racial discrimination. 
-The Opposition opposes this clause in toto and seeks its deletion. Having regard to what the Opposition sees as the fairly Draconian provisions of this Bill as it presently stands, and given the state of numbers in this chamber as it is likely to stand after this Committee debate, the Opposition is concerned that the rather automatic penalty which will be attracted by a principal, often an unwitting principal, under the provisions of clause 1 7 are not satisfactory. We do not believe that a form of vicarious visitation of liability should attach to the types of acts that are prescribed by this Bill. If the Government feels that there is need to drag in principals in the situations in contemplation by clause 17, I would again ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to consider the fact that, particularly in the provisions of this Bill affecting accommodation and the sale of property, we are breaking very new ground. 
I ask the Attorney-General to contemplate the situation that could arise where, in plain language, there is a racially bigoted estate agent and a perfectly tolerant vendor and, just because the tolerant vendor strictly speaking does not comply with the exemptions which are in clause 17, he could find himself in a most unfortunate situation. Given that the Government is going to create a category of offences in respect of the letting and sale of property, I accept that there is a very strong argument in some way to bring in principals; but the Opposition is unhappy with the possible consequences of clause 17 to people who have no thought of discriminating on racial grounds and who could be the unwitting victims of discriminatory acts by their agents. I think it is a serious enough matter to warrant deletion at this stage. Once again, in the light of experience the legislation might be suitably amended at a later date. 
I move: 
Omit 'whether or not', substitute 'provided '. 
Clause 1 8 deals with those situations where there are two or more reasons for a person doing an act, one of which is by reason of the race, colour, or national or ethnic origin of another person. The Opposition has given a great deal of consideration to this clause and is very strongly of the opinion that if this Bill is to proscribe the behaviour which is dealt with in earlier clauses, and if situations arise where there are more reasons than one why a person has done a certain act, it is only reasonable if we are creating a new category of offences so far as the law is concerned that the offence which will attract a penalty or a consequence be the dominant reason for the doing of the act. It is not an open and shut situation. I recognise that there are arguments to the contrary and that where there is a mixture of reasons some might argue that it is sufficient that racial discrimination be a substantial reason. But the Opposition believes that it should be the dominant reason for the doing of the act so that in all the circumstances it is fair to say that the reason why a person acted in a particular way was on the ground of racial discrimination. 
I think this would be in accord with the comments I made last night in relation to the fact that this is new legislation. It will be strange to a lot of people. I think that quite deservedly it will catch a lot of people but it will also catch some people who have unwittingly committed acts of racial discrimination. We therefore think it is necessary in all the circumstances that there be no doubt that the reason why a person has done an act complained of is by reason of racial discrimination. 
-I move: 
Omit paragraph (b). 
This amendment is consequential upon the approach the Opposition takes to proceedings under the Act The Opposition does not believe that the Commissioner should have a role beyond that of conciliator and educator. The Opposition's amendments preclude the right of the Commissioner to take proceedings. His role shall be merely to conciliate in an effort to effect settlement of differences which arise out of acts alleged to be acts of racial discrimination. Therefore, as a mechanical consequence, we seek to delete the right of the Commissioner to institute proceedings. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1) paragraph (a) after 'complaint' insert 'in writing'. 
This is a very short, simple and explanatory amendment. The Opposition thinks that any complaints made to the Commissioner ought to be in writing. It is self evident that any complaint of an act to which the Government seeks to have attracted a criminal penalty ought at least as a minimum requirement to be a complaint made in writing. I do not think that the Government or honourable members could accuse the Opposition of pettifogging or nitpicking but we think that as a minimum requirement, if somebody makes a complaint of a serious nature like this, at least it should be made in writing. 
-I move: ' 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit ' a person ', substitute ' the persons '. 
In sub-clause (2) omit 'may', substitute 'shall'. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has drawn attention to the possible use of the Star Chamber methods. With respect to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  I do not think that that is a total exaggeration. If there is no intention by the Government that the identity of a person making a complaint should not be disclosed to the person whose act is complained of, that ought to be made clear. It is sufficiently important a matter not to be left in doubt. It is all very well to say that if that is done one has to put everything into the Act, but this is not just a mere triviality. It is a fairly fundamental principle that there be no doubt that if somebody complains that a person has done something which has the character of a criminal offence, that person ought at least as a minimum know who the complainant is. In order to meet this situation and to put to rest any doubt about the matter, the Opposition proposes an amendment to clause 22 which would speak of 'the persons', in other words, the person who makes the complaint and the person whose behaviour is complained of. If our amendment is accepted there will be absolutely no doubt. There will be a clear obligation on the Commissioner, on receiving a complaint in writing, to bring both of the people together. Their identities would be made known and there would be no doubt whatever as to who had made the complaint and who had allegedly committed the act of which complaint is made. I do not believe, nor does the Opposition, that this is a vexatious, frivolous or nitpicking amendment. We think that it is absolutely essential. If members of the Government feel that Opposition speakers in this debate have railed against some of the more unsatisfactory aspects of the Bill, it is because it appears to the Opposition that there has been an indifference on the part of the Government in drafting the provisions of this legislation to take account of some of the fundamental things, when one is dealing with civil liberties and the rights of the individual, which have been known to our law for many centuries. The right to know your accuser is certainly one such fundamental right. As I have said before, we are breaking new ground. Therefore, it is essential that there be no doubt in the mind of any person who is dragged before the Commissioner and who might be subject to criminal penalties right from the beginning who his accuser is. 
-I move: 
Omit the clause. 
As is obvious, the amendment I have moved seeks to delete clause 23 in its entirety. As I have said earlier both in this debate in Committee and during the second reading debate, the Opposition believes that the behaviour dealt with in this legislation should be in turn dealt with so far as proceedings are concerned in an entirely different manner from that proposed by the Government. It is consequential to that attitude for the Opposition to seek to delete clause 23. Once again the Opposition seeks a situation in which the persons who are in conflict over the alleged behaviour of one of those persons should be before the Commissioner in a totally conciliatory atmosphere. At the time those persons are before the Commissioner, there should not be any proceedings actually commenced by the person making the complaint, or any immediate threat of proceedings or prosecution hanging over the head of the person whose behaviour has been complained of. We do agree that if this conciliation procedure fails, then and only then should the person making the complaint have the right to civil proceedings against the person about whose conduct a complaint has been made. The pattern of proceedings desired by the Government in this and other clauses of the Bill for dealing with complaints arising under Part II of the Bill is not one which attracts us. It may be one which in the light of experience of the operation of this legislation in the form that we would like it might be found in certain cases to be necessary. But at this stage we think that the sort of proceedings the Government has in mind do go too far, and do contain dangers. Therefore, we oppose it. Part of that opposition is to seek the deletion of clause 23. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 25 ( 1 ) A person aggrieved by an act that he considers to have been unlawful by reason of a provision of Part II may subject to this section institute a proceeding in relation to the act by way of civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction for any one or more of the remedies specified in section 26. 
A proceeding may not be instituted under this section in respect of the doing of an act (other than an act that is unlawful by virtue of section 16) in relation to- 
accommodation in a dwelling-house or flat, being accommodation shared or to be shared, in whole or in part, with the person who did the act or a person on whose behalf the act was done or with a relative of either of those persons;  or 
employment, or an application for employment, in a dwelling-house or flat occupied by the person who did the act or a person on whose behalf the act was done or by a relative of either of those persons. 
No proceeding shall be instituted unless the person aggrieved has received prior to the institution of such proceeding a certificate signed by the Commission stating that the Commissioner, a conciliation committee or an officer or employee of the Commissioner has presided over a conference directed by the Commissioner under sub-section 22 ( 1) and has endeavoured to settle the matter and that at the date of the certificate the matter has not been settled. 
No evidence shall be given or received and no statement shall be made in any proceeding instituted under this section with respect to anything said or done at a conference directed to be held pursuant to section 22. '. 
This particular amendment is the very heart of the Opposition's approach to this Bill. The amendment provides that a person who is unhappy with the conciliation process, a person who complains that he or she has been a victim of an act of racial discrimination and feels that nothing has been achieved can go to a civil court and commence proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction for any of the remedies which are set out in clause 26. Those remedies include damages, injunction and the like. Once again, the important point is that the procedure is clear. A person who complains of an act goes to the Commissioner; the process of conciliation, hopefully of reconciliation, is then commenced. An effort is made by the Commissioner to bring about a settlement of the differences. 
I can contemplete that if this procedure is adopted there will be many instances in which a person whose conduct is complained of will agree before the Commissioner to pay damages to the person who makes the complaint. But as I see it, the great virtue of the Opposition's amendment is that there will be a genuine onus not only on the person whose conduct is complained of but also on the person who makes the complaint. There will be a genuine onus on both of them when they go before the Commissioner to endeavour to settle their differences. The person who makes the complaint will not be able to abuse the process of conciliation by commencing civil proceedings at the same time as he or she lodges a complaint with the Commissioner. I know of many other instances in the law where there is provision for a person to go to a compulsory conference for conciliation or arbitration, but it becomes an empty formality simply because that person has the right to commence civil proceedings at the same time as he or she goes to conciliation or arbitration. So both parties are negotiating before the conciliatorthe Commissioner in this case- under duress. 
That will not be the case with the Opposition 's amendment. Certainly we concede that if a person making a complaint is unhappy with the process of conciliation and feels that his or her honour has not been acquitted, that person has a perfect right, on getting a certificate from the Commissioner, to commence proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction. 
The other important proviso that the Opposition has included in this amendment, and I think this a proviso that has been picked up in one of the Attorney-General's amendments, is that anything said or done or admitted before the conciliator cannot be brought into evidence in any subsequent proceedings. The purpose of putting such a proviso in this clause is quite obvious. If one is going to have proper process of conciliation, if one is going to have any hope of arguing out differences and reaching settlement, of having apologies given and compromises reached, obviously one has to have an atmosphere across the table where persons do not feel that they are prejudiced if they admit they might have lost their temper, might have said something that was insulting or might have been a bit harsh in their conditions of employment. A person ought not to feel that in saying that he is going to be up for damages and that such an admission in an act of conciliation can be used against him at a later stage. If that sort of atmosphere prevails there is no hope in the world, as my friend knows, of ever achieving any kind of reconciliation, any kind of settlement of differences. 
Again, the Opposition very sincerely asks the Government to consider the sort of procedure we have in mind, which admittedly is a softer approach to the treatment of racial discrimination than that desired by the Government. Because this legislation breaks new ground, because it introduces penalties and defences which will be strange to the great majority of Australian people, and many people of goodwill will feel uneasy about them, we think that a gentler, softer approach at the beginning is necessary. The whole thrust of the Opposition's approach to the amendment of this Bill is contained in clause 25 and we ask the Government to give very serious consideration to our amendment. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, the Opposition cannot accept clause 28 in any circumstances. I recognise the Government's good intent in including this clause, but to get into the field of prohibiting the dissemination of ideas is something which is so dangerous, in the Opposition's view, that in no circumstances could we agree to the inclusion of the clause. I know that those who would speak against the argument I am putting would inevitably point their finger at Nazi Germany, would inevitably draw attention to the dissemination of ideas in books and periodicals which seek to assert that one race is inherently superior to another. I accept that such an argument would be inevitable, but it is one of those situations where one has to balance competing demands. 
On the one hand, there is the demand to eliminate acts of racial discrimination. On the other hand, there is the demand for preservation of a completely free society in which it is proper and reasonable for people to have freedom to disseminate ideas. The Opposition accepts that any acts which incite racial discrimination ought to be made unlawful, and in fact the earlier sections of this Bill do make that sort of behaviour unlawful. But to attempt to proscribe the dissemination of ideas, however base many people in this chamber might find those ideas, is to get into an area which m the view of the Opposition is so dangerous and could infringe on such a basic right that the Opposition very strongly opposes the inclusion in the Bill of this clause. 
-The Opposition would seek by the amendment that was circulated in my name to delete clause 29. Once again, this was part of the pattern of amendments put down by the Opposition which believes that acts inciting racial discrimination should attract the same types of consequences as those acts themselves. For that reason, we proposed to seek the deletion of clause 29. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 30. 
1) A person shall not insult, hinder, obstruct, molest or interfere with the Commissioner, an officer or employee of the Commissioner, a person presiding over a conference referred to in section 22, a prescribed authority referred to in section 23 or any of the members of a conciliation committee in the performance of any functions or the exercise of any powers under this Act. 
A person shall not- 
refuse to employ another person; 
dismiss, or threaten to dismiss, another person from his employment; 
prejudice, or threaten to prejudice, another person in his employment; or 
intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty upon, another person, by reason that the other person- 
has made, or proposes to make, a complaint to the Commissioner; 
has furnished, or proposes to furnish, any information or documents to the Commissioner; 
has attended, or proposes to attend, a conference referred to in section 22; or 
has appeared, or proposes to appear, before a prescribed authority referred to in section 23 to give evidence or produce documents. 
Penalty: $500. 
I ask for leave to move circulated amendments (15) and ( 16) to clause 30 together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move- 
In sub-clause (1), omit ', a prescribed authority referred to in section 23'. 
In sub-clause (2) omit paragraph (h). 
Once again these amendments are consequential to the pattern of amendments moved by the Opposition to this Bill. The Opposition's amendments do not contemplate resort to the prescribed authority referred to in clause 23. In fact, the Opposition sought the deletion of the whole of clause 23. In addition the Opposition as a consequential amendment seeks the deletion of paragraph (h) of sub-clause (2) of clause 30 as it contemplates that proceedings before the prescribed authority referred to in clause 23 are not part of the type of procedure that the Opposition would want under this legislation. 
-My first amendment seeks to delete sub-clause ( 1 ) from clause 53.1 think the reason for the Opposition's attitude regarding this would be self-evident both from the other amendments we have moved during the course of this debate, and our attitude to the establishment of the Superior Court of Australia. The amendment which the Opposition sought to clause 26 would have made it clear that any civil proceedings instituted under the Act in the form which the Opposition wanted, would have been proceedings which could have been instituted in any court of competent jurisdiction. The situation could have been accommodated without the inclusion of sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 53. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Is it the wish of the honourable member to move amendments 17 and 18 together? 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Chairman. I am indebted to you for drawing that to my attention. I move: 
Omit sub-clause (1). 
Omit sub-clauses (4) to (8) (inclusive). 
The remarks which I have made on so many occasions during this debate regarding the pattern of the Opposition's amendments must once again be made in respect of this clause. I repeat the remarks I made earlier regarding the Opposition's attitude to the Superior Court of Australia. It is not a court which is yet in existence. The establishment of the court is opposed for very good reasons by the Opposition. It seems that having regard both to the nature of the amendments we have moved so far to this legislation, and to our attitude to the Superior Court of Australia, the existence of sub-clauses (4) and (8) are unnecessary. 
-The Opposition seeks to omit clause 54 in its entirety. I am indebted to the Attorney-General for drawing my attention to the interim jurisdiction conferred by clause 54. 1 merely repeat the remarks I made on speaking to clause 53, that I appreciate the desire of the Attorney-General for his Government to have its own courts. The attitude of the Opposition to the establishment of the Superior Court and, of necessity, the vesting upon the Industrial Court interim jurisdiction pending the establishment of the Superior Court is well known. There are very strong and valid reasons why jurisdiction of this nature ought not necessarily be exercised by a Superior Court. I do not want in any sense to open up the debate on the merits or otherwise of the establishment of a Superior Court, but given the attitude of the Opposition to the establishment of that Court it follows as a natural consequence that the conferring of interim jurisdiction on the Australian Industrial Court pending the establishment of the Superior Court, that our opposition is a logical consequence of our attitude to the establishment of the Superior Court. 
I am indebted to you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I do not think there is very much disagreement in regard to clause 55. The purpose of the Opposition's amendment was to expand the legal aid provisions of the legislation. The Attorney-General is of the same mind, and I am therefore minded to accept the amendment moved by the Attorney-General and to withdraw the amendment to clause 55 standing in my name. 
Substitute clause 55 agreed to. 
Clause 56. 
1 ) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, prepare and furnish to the AttorneyGeneral a report of the operations of the Commissioner during that year, together with financial statements in respect of that year in such form as the Treasurer approves. 
Before furnishing financial statements to the AttorneyGeneral, the Commissioner shall submit them to the Auditor-General, who shall report to the Attorney-General- 
a ) whether the statements are based on proper accounts and records; 
whether the statements are in agreement with the accounts and records; 
whether the receipt and expenditure of moneys, and the acquisition and disposal of assets, by the Commissioner during the year have been in accordance with this Act; and 
as to such other matters arising out of the statements as the Auditor-General considers should be reported to the Attorney-General. 
The Attorney-General shall cause the report and financial statements of the Commissioner, together with the report of the Auditor-General, to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after their receipt by the Attorney-General. 
It seems to me very strange that the Government should support this legislation and argue that one of the reasons why it has been brought forward is to eliminate confusion, because I believe that this proposal to register political parties has in it a potential for far greater confusion and mischief than presently exist. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  know very well that in the 1950s their own party experienced a few convulsions in the State of Victoria. They also know very well that there was a court action involving the ownership of the assets of the Australian Labor Party Victoria branch. They also know that, as I recollect the circumstances, the result of that court action was that the ownership of the assets resided with the old Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party. The point I am making in bringing this up is that confusion would be caused if a Party secured registration in close proximity to an election, there was a schism in the Party and there was the sort of result that occurred with the Labor Party in Victoria. There would be untold confusion. 
I am not arguing against the printing of names and party affiliations on ballot papers out of any kind of political advantage. I will argue other propositions out of political advantage. I do not suppose there is any issue debated in Parliament in which every honourable members regards himself as an expert more than the isssue of electoral laws. We all think we know the best system of electoral laws. If the Government is trying to eliminate confusion and if it argues that the reason why this Bill has been brought in is to eliminate confusion, I think it is misleading not only this Parliament but also the Australian people. If it puts Party affiliations on ballot papers it will cause confusion. It does not need a very fertile mind to think of the numerous combinations and permutations of the name 'Australian Labor Party' that people could dream up. Some party might call itself the National Australian Labor Party. We all know the combinations that could be achieved. If the definition in the Bill enables members of a body or an organisation to come together with a political objective they can apply under clause 58 for registration. As the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has pointed out, enormous discretionary power is then placed in the hands of a Minister or an electoral officer. I believe that a political party has to thrive or perish on its own performance, not because of any entrenched statutory authority that it might have. I argue that not only in relation to the printing of Party affiliations on ballot papers but also in respect of the payment of campaign expenses out of Consolidated Revenue. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide has made a number of contributions in this Parliament on the general subject of elections and election campaigns. A great deal of what he has said on other occasions I have agreed with. I know there are problems with the extent to which the media have sought to intimidate the process of political choice. I agree with that, but equally one thing which I will not accept and which is inherent in the arguments that he has put today, is that in some way you have to entrench the political status quo. All the provisions such as paying people's campaign expenses out of Consolidated Revenue and putting names of political parties on ballot papers have as their purpose the entrenchment of the status quo. If the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party or the Australian Country Party cannot get enough people to man the polling booths and to hand out how to vote cards, it means that they are unpopular, and they have to suffer the consequences of . that political unpopularity. I cannot see that the cause of democracy is served in any way by taking away from political parties the responsibility of getting their supporters out to vote. I just cannot see the logical process of that. That is precisely what this Bill is designed to do. It is designed to give to political parties in this country a soft option. I do not think that political parties ought to have a soft option. I think they have to have the responsibility, whether their members sit on the other side of the chamber or this side of the chamber, of getting their supporters out to vote. 
The idea that you can write into the legislation provision to give to a minister or an electoral officer, no matter how able either of those 2 ladies or gentlemen may be, a discretion or authority to decide national issues of registration of political parties is I think distorting the whole political process. Surely the essence of any democracy is the capacity of a group of people with ideas and objectives to come together, without having to go through any kind of legal procedure, and to put forward ideas, to sponsor candidates for parliamentary elections and to get people to support them. If we in any way interfere with that natural democratic process I do not think we will be eliminating confusion; I think we will be creating it. If we do this I do not think we will be serving the interests of democracy; I think we will be hindering the interests of democracy. 
I suppose that if in his heart of hearts the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  were completely candid about this legislation, he would agree with me that the real gravaman of this Bill is contained in clauses 45 and 46. If he had to lose every other clause in the Bill he would hang on to clauses 45 and 46 to the bitter end. I can tell by his reaction that he knows that what I am saying is the truth. It seems to me that the members of the Government are being totally obsessed by the 73 Senate candidates in New South Wales in the double dissolution election campaign last May. Those 73 people have really got to the members of the Australian Labor Party. In indulging in that fatal flaw of argument of going from the particular to justify the general I suppose that we have heard reference to these 73 Senate candidates in New South Wales about 100 times already during this debate. I think 50 of those mentions would have come from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
It has been argued constantly, both during this debate and on the other occasion that this Bill was before the House, that it is wrong to compel people to extend their preference beyond the first preference to cast a formal vote. If it is wrong to compel people to extend their preference beyond the first preference I would like the Minister for Services and Property, when he speaks to this clause, to justify his Government's commitment to a system of compulsory voting, because if it is wrong to compel people to do things when they vote, how can one possibly justify compelling people to vote? If the Government is worried about compulsion in the electoral system, it ought to go back to basics and concern itself with whether or not people ought to be compelled to vote at all. It has been pointed out by Government supporters that optional preferential voting is not a first step to first past the post voting. In a very quick statistical example I think I can establish that it is. I will take a sample electorate of 100 people and 3 candidates named Smith, Brown and Jones. Smith gets 41 primary votes, Brown gets 39 votes and Jones gets 20 votes, making a total of 100 votes. Under the present system, the preferences of the candidate with 20 votes, that is Jones, are distributed. Let us say that the other 2 candidates get 10 votes each. Smith ends up with 5 1 votes, which is an absolute majority, and Brown ends up with 49 votes. But with optional preferential voting, perhaps only 10 of the 20 people who voted for Jones had distributed their preferential beyond No. 1, so there are only 10 second preference votes to distribute. Let us say that five of those go to Smith and five of them go to Brown. Smith ends up with 46 votes and brown ends up with 44 votes. Under the optional preferential system the first candidate, Smith, wins with 46 of the 100 votes. If anyone can possibly argue that that is not another form of first past the post voting I do not think he is paying regard to logic. 
The whole purpose of preferential voting is to be absolutely certain that when all the preferences have been counted, when all the votes have been counted, whoever wins can say that a majority of the people voted for him, either as a first preference or as a second preference. The great danger in having optional preferential voting is that, although superficially people will say that it is not first past the post voting, one can end up with a situation where a person wins without having a majority of the people voting for him either directly or through their second preference, and the example I have just quoted indicates that. It is all very well for those who apologise for optional preferential voting to say that people will have an option. The fact of the matter is that there will be a natural bias in the system towards people not extending their preference beyond No. 1. I am very intrigued about the form of the new Schedule, Form F, on page 34 of the Bill. It states: 
Your vote must be made by placing the number 1 in the square opposite the name of the candidate for whom you vote as your first preference. 
Note the mandatory words that you must fill in. one square. Then the next paragraph states: 
If you so desire, you may, in addition, indicate the order of your preference . . . 
It is very clear from the wording of this new Schedule that the bias is in favour of people not extending their preference beyond No. 1. This is a real gravamen of the Bill. Clauses 45 and 46 are the 2 critical clauses of the Bill. They are a thinly disguised form of first preference voting. I am quite prepared to have an argument with any Government supporter on the merits or otherwise of first preference voting. There are arguments that can be presented for first preference voting. But let nobody in this Committee delude himself that optional preference voting is anything but a first step towards first past the post voting. It denies the basic principle that we have at the moment, that whoever wins can, without fear of contradiction, say confidently that the majority of people who casted formal votes voted for him, either in their first preference or in their second preference. That is the ultimate test, and that is the test on which the Government's proposition fails. 
-This Bill is a small amendment to the Trade Practices Act, which came into force last year. The Opposition will support the passage of the Bill. During the Committee stage of the debate we shall move amendments to clauses 4 and 5. The Bill deals with 3 separate issues. Firstly, the Bill provides that when regulations in respect of consumer product information standards and consumer product safety standards are made under section 62 and 63 of the Trade Practices Act, those regulations may exclude from their operation goods which are intended for use outside Australia. It is in respect of this particular clause of the Bill that the Opposition amendment to which I referred earlier will be moved during the Committee stage. The second provision of the Bill is to clarify the operation of sections 5 1 and 45 of the Act. The third, and perhaps the most publicised section of the Bill, is designed to outlaw the unsolicited sending of credit cards. 
Dealing in turn with each of those 3 provisions, the Opposition accepts the proposition of the Government that when regulations under sections 62 and 63 are made, it is proper, and in fact necessary in the interests of Australian businessmen endeavouring to compete for overseas markets, that those regulations should, where appropriate, exclude from their operation goods which are intended for use outside Australia. The Opposition, in common with the Government, believes that Australian exporters should not be put at what could be, in many circumstances, a competitive disadvantage. I think it is worth noting in respect of this particular provision that standards set, both in respect of safety and product information under sections 62 and 63, may not always be such as to lead to a situation where goods which are excluded from the operation of the regulations are necessarily of an inferior quality. I know there are some who may say that, irrespective of whether the goods are to be sold inside or outside Australia, the same standards ought to apply to them. Whilst this is a superficially attractive argument, from a practical point of view an Australian exporter must naturally direct his attention and tailor his goods to the export market. The sorts of standards that in those circumstances he should be interested in are the standards imposed by the country to which the goods are exported. 
The second provision of the Bill merely seeks to clarify the operation of section 5 1 of the Act. The whole scheme of Part IV of the Act is to prohibit certain practices and to render unenforcible certain contracts. These prohibitions are covered by sections 45 to 50 of the Act. Section 51, which is the last section in Part V, then contains certain exceptions to the prohibitions and the unenforcibility provisions contained in sections 45 and 50. Clearly, it was never intended by the Government when framing this legislation that any contract provisionally rendered unenforcible by section 45 should remain unenforcible by section 45 and not be covered by the exceptions contained in section 51. This amendment is necessary to clarify a construction doubt which has arisen regarding the impact of section 5 1 and the Opposition will support it. 
The third provision of the Bill is the one that deals with the question of the unsolicited sending out of credit cards. Honourable members will recall that when the various banks throughout Australia introduced credit cards last year, considerable Press publicity was given to the fact that they were sent out on an unsolicited basis. Whilst the Opposition accepts that the amendment proposed by the Government in respect of credit cards is desirable, I would like to make a few comments on the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  when introducing this Bill. In many respects the AttorneyGeneral's speech exaggerated the situation which arose when these credit cards were sent out. The Attorney-General spoke of many instances of the cards falling into the wrong hands. He spoke of confusion caused to the business community and he implied confusion and problems for the consumer. 
I did not find in the Attorney-General's second reading speech very much evidence of the problems which had been occasioned by the sending out of the unsolicited credit cards. I think that perhaps the point was lost in the AttorneyGeneral's speech and ought to be made at this stage that under the system that operated in respect of the credit cards any liability in respect of cards which fell into the wrong hands and were put to the wrong use rested with the banks themselves. I do not think evidence has been produced to justify the claims made in the Attorney-General's second reading speech that the cards did, in fact, cause the confusion and the mischief which was alluded to in his remarks, nor did they create quite the menace to the business community that the Attorney-General claimed in his speech, 
I think it is also worth the House's noting that the banks have accepted, I understand on a voluntary basis, the gist of the Government's proposals contained in this Bill. Whilst, as I said earlier, the Opposition believes that it is desirable to write this amendment into the Trade Practices Act, I think some of the hysteria that surrounded the sending out of the credit cards initially perhaps was not warranted. As some evidence of that I am informed that until the end of March of this year not one complaint was received by the consumer affairs ministry in New South Wales in respect of the wrongful use of credit cards or any problems which had arisen to consumers in respect of the use of those cards. Whilst that does not mean that other complaints of that nature were not made in other parts of 
Australia, I think it is indicative of the general situation that no such complaints were received by the appropriate consumer affairs body in the largest State of Australia. 
I return briefly to the amendment which the Opposition will sponsor during the Committee state of this debate. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that if goods  aTe  excluded from the regulations envisaged under sections 62 and 63 of the Act on the grounds that they are intended for use outside Australia and ultimately find their way to the domestic market, a clear need exists for the Australian consumer to be put on notice that such goods may not necessarily comply with the safety and product information standards laid down by the regulations made under the 2 sections. The Opposition believes that the consumer is entitled to the protection that he is put on notice that goods may not necessarily comply with the standards laid down under the regulations and principally intended for goods designed, in the first instance, to be consumed on the domestic market. 
Before finalising my remarks at this second reading stage, I would like to make a few general comments about the issue of consumer protection as envisaged under the Trade Practices Act. I think all members of the House will agree that the role of the Federal Government in the area of consumer affairs is still an evolving one. The Opposition and I hope that in the implementation of Government policies priority will be given to the elimination, as far as possible, of confusion. The Opposition believes that the consumer protection provision of the Trade practices Act were introduced in the first instance without adequate consultation with the States.. The Government was aware that the various State governments of Australia had extensive consumer protection laws. In many areas the Federal Government recognised that the provisions it was writing into the Trade Practices Act could come into conflict with and could overlap many of the laws in operation in the various States. This, of course, is evidenced by the inclusion of a special saving section in the Part of the Trade Practices Act dealing with consumer protection in respect of existing laws of the Australian States and Territories. In the Opposition's view, if consumer protection laws are to be effective there must be the minimum of confusion. 
One of the charges made against many manufacturers, advertisers and the like in the community is that advice given and material circulated in respect of products that are sold throughout the community confuse the consumer, attempt to mislead him and attempt to deceive him. I hope that in the Government's development of its treatment of consumer protection it will give very high priority to the elimination of consumer confusion, because it is no good having a consumer protection policy and a set of consumer protection laws and having a situation whereby the consumer who has a problem or a complaint does not know to whom this complaint should be addressed or to whom his problem should be taken. I think that some of the confusion has arisen as a result of the Government in the first instance acting without proper consultation with the States and with local government. I know that honourable members on the other side of the House will say that whenever the Opposition debates legislation it talks about the role of State and local government, but perhaps in this area more than others it is necessary to recognise that if we are to have adequate consumer protection laws there must be agencies and authorities at the local level to which a person seeking information or wishing to make a complaint can go. It is no good establishing a fairly remote commission unless as part of the establishment of that body adequate provision is made for the ordinary consumer and the ordinary citizen at a completely local level to take complaints and to seek information. 
The final point I would like to make relates to the question of confusion. I think those in the community who are interested in consumer protectionthe consumer movement- and also this House are entitled to have resolved the confusion which apparently exists regarding which Minister in the Government is to be responsible for consumer protection. The House will be aware that apparently there has been a difference of opinion and a dispute in the ranks of the Government between the Attorney-General and the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison).  Announcements have been made and Press reports have been circulating in recent days as to who has won the battle and who is finally to be in charge. In the interests of the consumer movement, this dispute has to be put to rest. In the interests of the consumer there should be no confusion. The ordinary consumers and citizens of this country ought to know as a very minimum who is to have ultimate ministerial responsibility for and control of what is a very important area. In concluding my remarks, in general terms I commend the Government for bringing forward these amendments to the Trade Practices Act. The Bill will receive the support of the Opposition. 
I seek leave of the Committee to move together amendments 1 to 4 standing in my name. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-Is  there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-The amendments refer to clauses 4 and 5, which read: 
Section 62 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section (2) the following sub-section:- '(2a) Regulations made for the purposes of this section may exclude from their operation goods of a kind specified in the regulations that are intended to be used outside Australia.'. 
Section 63 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-section ( 2 ) the following sub-section: - '(2a) Regulations made for the purposes of this section may exclude from their operation goods of a kind specified in the regulations that are intended to be used outside Australia. . 
I move: 
1 ) In clause 4, after 'Australia ', insert 'and to which is applied a statement indicating that the goods are intended to be so used'. 
In clause 4, after proposed sub-section (2a), insert the following sub-sections:- " '(2b) For the purposes of sub-section (2a), a statement shall be deemed to be applied to goods if- 
the statement is woven in, impressed on, worked into or annexed or affixed to the goods; or 
the statement is applied to a covering, label, reel or thing in or with which the goods are supplied. '(2c) A reference in sub-section (2b) to a covering includes a reference to a stopper, glass, bottle, vessel, box, capsule, case, frame or wrapper and a reference in that subsection to a label includes a reference to a band or ticket. '. ". 
3 ) In clause 5, after ' Australia ', insert ' and to which is applied a statement indicating that the goods are intended to be so used'. 
In clause 5, after proposed sub-section (2a), insert the following sub-sections:- " '(2b) For the purposes of sub-section (2a), a statement shall be deemed to be applied to goods if- 
the statement is woven in, impressed on, worked into or annexed or affixed to the goods; or 
the statement is applied to a covering, label, reel or thing in or with which the goods are supplied. '(2C) A reference in sub-section (2b) to a covering includes a reference to a stopper, glass, bottle, vessel, box, capsule, case, frame or wrapper and a reference in that subsection to a label includes a reference to a band or ticket. '. ". 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  was kind enough to pre-empt me on the subject of collaboration between myself and officers of his Department regarding the preparation of these amendments. I do acknowledge, as I had intended, that collaboration and the assistance of the Attorney-General in the drafting of the amendments. As I indicated during the second reading debate, the purpose of these amendments is to make it perfectly clear that any goods which, by the regulations made under sections 62 and 63 of the Act, are intended to be used outside Australia should not come within the ambit of those regulations. Quite clearly, circumstances in Australia may require standards and information regarding products which are not appropriate for overseas countries. Let me again emphasise that the Opposition in no way wishes a situation to arise whereby Australian exporters are encouraged to export goods of a quality inferior to that of goods sold on the domestic market. We merely seek a situation where Australian businessmen in a competitive export situation should not have to pay undue regard to consumer standards other than standards in force in the countries for which their goods are intended. 
The other matter that I should like to add is that, notwithstanding that there is genuine confusion in some areas of consumer protection and a need to clear it up- I do not think it can be pushed aside by some references to State rights versus centralism- the Opposition believes quite strongly that an area in which the Government indisputably has a direct interest and ought to have a direct involvement is the laying down and enforcement of product safety and information standards and the labelling and packaging of goods. These are areas in which the Commonwealth Government, quite properly, does have an interest and they are areas that I hope the present Government will continue to review, while it has custody of this Act, in the light of circumstances as they change. 
In respect of the consumer protection section of the Trade Practices Act, I think that there is perhaps more need there than anywhere else for this process of fairly constant review because it is an area which is still evolving. It is a comparatively new area for a Commonwealth Government and there is still a tremendous need for greater consultation between the Commonwealth Government and the States. I hope that in the course of drafting its legislation for the consumer affairs commission, to which some attention has been given recently by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  there will be a level of co-operation and consultation between the Federal Government and the State governments which the Opposition believes was absent when the consumer protection provisions at present in force under the Trade Practices Act were prepared. 
All I wish to say is that I am most pleased to hear the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  acknowledge that in this field there is a need for negotiation between the Australian Government and the governments of the various States. It was precisely the absence of such provision for negotiation and that sort of attitude when this Act was being processed that drew some of the criticism which has come from this side. I do not advocate that the Australian Government in the present situation withdraw from the activities which are laid down in Part V. I am not advocating that at all. I am simply urging the Attorney-General to direct his attention again to the need in the interest of consumers for the least possible differences and the least possible confusion between the laws of the Australian Parliament and the laws of the various States. He knows, and I am glad that he has acknowledged, that the best way in which that can be achieved is by the process of negotiation. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-This legislation has about it the elements of one of the most historic pieces of legislation that the Government has introduced since it was elected in December 1972- not historic, I believe, in the sense that it will go down on the statute books of this Parliament as having made a massive contribution to the resolution of interstate difficulties and difficulties between the States and the Commonwealth Government, but historic in the sense that never before in the period that the Government has been in office has an attempt been made to establish a body with such tremendous power under the cloak of such benign justification. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in their apologia for this legislation have stressed that it relates to matters of transport. The honourable member for Shortland in his concluding remarks spoke of the contribution that it would make to problems in respect of transport. As the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has already indicated, the Opposition would support proper legislation to provide a means of resolving problems in respect of transport matters, but the objection that the Opposition has to the legislation in its present form is that it is capable of establishing a fourth arm of government. 
This Bill was given a first reading on 9 April 1975. It is now 21 April, a mere 12 days later, and the Government asks the House to pass this Bill through the second reading stage. It asks us to say to the people of Australia that we, as a responsible legislative body, have given proper consideration to everything that is involved in this legislation during a short period of 12 days. I really do not think that the people of Australia are going to accept that this is a serious endeavour by the Government to approach legislative decision by this Parliament in a sensible and responsible manner. It may well be that on proper further examination it will be possible for the Opposition to accommodate itself to acceptance of some of the clauses to which we have taken objection at this stage, but I would like the Minister and succeeding speakers on the Government side to explain to this House why it is so tearingly necessary for us in the short period of only 12 days to have to make a decision on this legislation. 
We have heard the honourable member for Shortland and we have heard the Minister in his second reading speech say: 'You have had all the time in the world to think about an interstate commission. It has been in the Constitution since 1 90 1 . The Prime Minister spoke about it in 1 972. The Australian Labor Party has passed resolutions about it at annual conferences over a period of years. You have had plenty of time to think about it'. I put it to members on the Government side and to the Minister in particular that if the idea has been around so long why is it that we have to make a final decision in 12 days on the form of the legislation? If it is so tremendously important, if it has been such a high priority in the Government's legislative program, why was it not brought in earlier? Why are we not being given proper time to digest this legislation? 
The legislation is argued for on the basis that it is going to resolve differences of opinion. The Government says that the Inter-State Commission will be a body to whom people can take complaints, a body to whom the man in the street- I think that is the expression used in the Minister's second reading speech- can go along with the large corporations of the nation to have a problem resolved or adjudicated upon. I put it to the Minister that one way in which he can enlist the aid of the man in the street is by not confusing him. If there is one thing this Government is doing it is confusing the people with the plethora of commissions it is establishing. This is the second commission about which the Government has talked in a definitive form in the last 10 days. Last week reference was made to a consumer affairs commission. I might ask: What is to be the impact of this legislation on the Consumer Affairs Commission when it is established? As the honourable member for Gippsland asked: What is to be the impact of this legislation on the Trade Practices Commission? What is to be the impact of it on the Corporations and Securities Commission? The man in the street hardly has an opportunity to digest the relevance of each new commission as it is unveiled. So on the simple score of confusion to that poor old man in the street maybe the Government could consider allowing a little more time. 
The commercial impact of this legislation is immense. I think that in fairness the commercial life of this country ought to be given a bit more time to consider the legislation. If some of the fears and the apprehensions that we on the Opposition side of the House have can be abated all the better. That ought to be the aim of a sane legislative process, instead of saying: 'Here is the legislation. You have to pass it in 12 days. If you do not you are an obstructionist and you are adopting delaying tactics'. That is precisely the charge that was levelled against us by the honourable member for Shortland. This legislation has the potential to establish a fourth arm of government. Honourable members only have to look at the scope of clause 13 of the BUI and at the third paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport to realise this. He said in his second reading speech: 
Honourable members will note that the Constitution refers to the trade and commerce provisions and laws made thereunder. However it is not the Government's intention at this time for the Inter-State Commission to operate under these provisions other than in the field of transport. 
From that it is quite obvious that what the Government intends to do is to re-establish the Commission, to re-establish the bones of the mechanism, use if for transport purposes in the first instance and, as time goes by, gradually add to the functions and the power of the Commission in the light of what plans the Government may have. We have heard a great deal of reference by ' the honourable member for Shortland to the question of resolving constitutional doubts about the extent of the proposed Inter-State Commission's powers. The honourable member for Shortland has advanced a remarkable argument today. It is an argument that is being advanced with increasing frequency by both Ministers and Government back bench members of Parliament. That proposition is that a government has absolutely no responsibility to make a value judgment as to whether a proposal of the Government is within power. All it has to do is to pass the legislation. I does not have to worry about whether there is any legal doubt regarding the constitutional scope of the legislation. They say the High Court of Australia can determine that. I argue that it is the responsibility of the Government to give some consideration to whether something is within power and that it is a gross breach by the executive arm of government for the attitude to be taken that if there is any problem it can be resolved by the High Court. I think that is an irresponsible attitude. It is an attitude which has come to be far too frequently displayed by members of the Government. I think that as a responsible Government it ought to give some responsible consideration to whether legislation it proposes is within power. 
We have heard much reference during this debate, by both the Minister in his second reading speech and by the honourable member for Shortland to the historical antecedents of the Inter-State Commission. While I would be prepared to accept that the original idea of the InterState Commission may have had its genesis in an Act of the United Kingdom back in the 1 9th century, I think that for anyone to argue seriously that a useful analogy can be drawn between the circumstances that then existed and the circumstances which exist today in Australia is to be patently absurd. Every member of this House knows that many of the original concepts which led to the insertion of particular clauses into the Constitution have been altered by the passage of time. If there is one set of relations in Australia which have altered perhaps more than any other by the passage of time, it is the relations between the Federal Government and the States. Ideas and concepts which in the early part of this century were valid and had relevance in regard to the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States were no longer relevant. If we are ever to bring about a sensible resolution of areas of difference between the States and areas of difference between the Federal Government and the States it will not be by unilateral legislative confrontation on the part of the Federal Government. This legislation represents yet another piece of unilateral confrontation by the Federal Government towards the States without proper consideration of the attitude of the States and without proper consideration of the attitudes of industry and commerce. 
Within a short period of 12 days we, as an Op: position, are being asked to give a blank cheque to what could constitute the introduction into Australia of a fourth arm of government. We have not proposed that the legislation be rejected at this time. We have asked that it be withdrawn and that its re-introduction be delayed until the introduction of the Budget and until the full ramifications of the legislation can be digested. It is a responsible attitude. It is not an obstructionist attitude. The onus lies on the Government to establish to the satisfaction of the people why it is so frantically necessary to have this legislation passed in such great haste and without adequate opportunity for consideration by those affected and by those interested, which, in this instance, means a very substantial section of the Australian community. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  in commending this report from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure that my remarks would be echoed by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  who is also a member of the Committee. This issue confronted the Committee with a problem that arises very often in matters relating to transport, that is, the need to achieve a proper balance between environmental considerations and the need in a rapidly expanding city to provide the citizens of the city with increasingly efficient modes of transport and access to and from different parts of the city. I share completely the remarks made by the honourable member for Fraser with respect to the co-operation afforded to us by officers of the National Capital Development Commission. The inquiry was a very exhaustive one. I also commend the report to the House. 
-As the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has indicated, the Opposition supports the Common Informers (Parliamentary Disqualification) Bill. It will facilitate its speedy passage through this House. I do not wish to detain the House for long, but I think it is a pity that some of the notes that were introduced into the debate by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  were introduced. One would think that the honourable member for Phillip had not read the opening words of section 46 of the Constitution which state: 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides- 
The language of section 46 of the Constitution invites the introduction of the Bill that the Government had introduced tonight. To introduce into the debate references to Watergate activities and cover-ups is to make a most unfortunate intrusion into this debate. It was never intended that section 46 should be a permanent feature of the Constitution. It certainly was intended, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party pointed out, that certain rules regarding qualification and disqualification should be permanent features. 
The common informer has become a very rare beast in our law today. He is all but gone under United Kingdom legislation and, except perhaps in some of the statute law of the various States, he may also be gone from Australian law. Whilst the term may linger in some of those statutes, I think it is fair to ask why the procedure ought to be retained at all. 
-I think that the interjection of the Minister for Labor and Immigration has absolutely nothing to do with this debate. If the Minister has anything concrete to say, he has plenty of opportunity to say it. I think that in the context of this debate the question can be asked legitimately whether the procedure should be preserved at all. It has gone in the United Kingdom. Indeed, not only has it gone in the United Kingdom but the provisions of old English statutes regarding agreements with the public service and the government also have gone from United Kingdom law. I think a case can be made out in this regard. Although I am in no way suggesting that now is the appropriate time to do it, I hope that at some future time a case can be made out for the complete removal of the common informer device. I hope also that at some time in the future the Government will give some consideration to the English analogy and to following the decision that was made by the British Parliament in 1957 when it was decided to write out of the English law those old statutory provisions which disqualified persons who had entered into contracts and agreements with the public service from entering Parliament. 
This is not an easy issue for this Parliament, but I think it is something that has to be addressed honestly. I do not think the emotive introduction into the debate of terms such as Watergate and references to cover-ups will assist a calm presentation of the matter. This is the Government's legislation. I commend the Government for introducing it. I do not think it gives members of Parliament undue protection. I think it takes away a penalty the proportion of which is not relevant to present day circumstances. I think the legislation follows the clear language of section 46 of the Constitution which invited some kind of amendment. I think it is a Bill which, calmly and dispassionately, ought to be given a speedy passage through the House. 
-I move: 
At the end of proposed section 3, add the following subsection: '(2) In discharging the functions of the office a section of not less than two of the professional staff shall be seconded to draft proposed laws, amendments and instruments at the request of Members of the Parliament in priority to services for Ministers.'. 
There is very little that I can add at the Committee stage of the debate to what has already been said. The purpose of the amendment is to provide within the Office of Parliamentary Counsel not less than two of the professional staff in that office to be available to meet the requests of members of Parliament in priority to services which they provide for Ministers. I stress again that in no sense is this amendment to be construed as a reflection on services which have been rendered in the past by members of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. I emphasise that the services of the 2 persons referred to in the amendment are not to be set aside for use by members of Parliament to the total exclusion of anybody else. I mention that in case it should be thought that the time of these persons might not be fully utilised when private members of Parliament do not have work for them. The force of the amendment is to have the officers made available in priority to calls which may be made on their time and services by Ministers. I commend the amendment to the Government. 
-I ask the Minister for Science: Does the Government propose conducting an inquiry into the incidence of misleading advertising as reportedly foreshadowed by his colleague the Minister for the Media during an address in Sydney last Friday? If so, what is the justification for such an inquiry having regard to the existing penalties under the Trade Practices Act and State legislation? If such an inquiry is commissioned will the scope of the inquiry cover an investigation of the mounting incidence of misleading advertising in respect of the Government's own activities? 
-The Parliamentary Counsel Bill is a very short Bill, but it is an important piece of legislation particularly so far as the operation of this Parliament is concerned. Essentially, the Bill seeks to do 2 things. It defines, the role and the functions of parliamentary counsel and brings the legislative provisions up to date with a factual situation which has existed for several years. The second thing that the Bill does is to transfer ministerial control of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister. The Opposition agrees with the first objective of the BUI. It is unhappy about the transfer of control of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister. The Opposition will support the second reading of the Bill and, in the Committee stage, will propose an amendment to the Bill which will deal with the facilities of parliamentary counsel which ought to be made available to private members of this Parliament. 
The transfer of control of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister is, in the view of the Opposition, a bad decision by the Government. It will help to erode the position of the AttorneyGeneral and the traditional role of the AttorneyGeneral as the general legal adviser to the Government. The Opposition does not believe that the Government has given any convincing reason why this change should take place. It has long been the practice in our system of government that general legal advisings and the handling of strictly legal matters are the prime responsibility of the Attorney-General. Within the Attorney-General's Department there has been developed a natural bias towards the legal nature and the legal operations of government. In the view of the Opposition, it seems to be the natural function of the Attorney-General to have control of the mechanics of law making. The mechanics of law making are the drafting of regulations and ordinances and the legislation of this Parliament. We do not believe that the transfer of control of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel to the Prime Minister will assist this process. We believe that it will create room for friction, for lack of co-ordination and generally will lead to a denigration of the traditional role of the Attorney-General in our system of government. It is a decision which the Opposition, on assuming government, would seek to review. 
The other aspect of this Bill about which I wish to speak briefly and which will be the subject of an amendment in the Committee stage of the debate is the provision of facilities within the Office of Parliamentary Counsel for the use of private members of the Parliament in preference to Ministers. I do not think that I would be adding a great deal to the subject matter of the debate on this issue if I repeated a complaint which has been made over the years by successive Oppositions, and quite often by backbench members of Government parties, that there ought to be some special provision for parliamentary draftsmen to assist private members. In saying this, I in no way denigrate the efforts of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel to assist private members. In the short period that I have been a member of the Parliament, the assistance that I have received in this direction has certainly not been found wanting. It has been extremely satisfactory. 
The principle nonetheless remains that we ought, if we are putting down in statute form and defining the functions of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel, to give some attention to the question of whether we should specifically provide for facilities to be made available to private members in preference to Ministers. There is no suggestion on the part of the Opposition that the first responsibility of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel should not be to the government of the day. Quite obviously, the government of the day is entitled to have first call on that Office and, quite obviously, the business of government in the drafting of government legislation must occupy the first priority. But without any inconsistency with that principle, there is a very strong argument that can be made out that the efficient operation of this Parliament and a meaningful contribution to the deliberations of this Parliament by back bench members of Government and Opposition Parties could be assisted greatly if the services of parliamentary counsel were made available in the manner envisaged in the amendment to be moved by the Opposition in the Committee stage. 
It might be useful if I reminded the House of the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to this issue, as he put it when speaking as Leader of the Opposition in the second reading debate on the Parliamentary Counsel Bill 1970. That Bill subsequently was enacted and it is that Act that the Bill now before the House seeks to amend. In the course of his remarks, the Prime Minister- the Leader of the Opposition as he then was- drew attention to the need to provide the sorts of facilities of which I have spoken. He drew attention to the right of private members of this Parliament to have access to parliamentary counsel for drafting requirements and general legislative advice of the nature to which I have referred. In the course of his remarks, he said: 
I trust that the Attorney-General in his general supervision of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel will accept the fact that there must be a limit to the extent to which the Government can dominate the services of the parliamentary counsel. 
What the Prime Minister was saying was that the Office of Parliamentary Counsel, whilst its first responsibility must always be to the government of the day, also had a general responsibility to the Parliament as a whole. That means Goverment Ministers, Government back benchers and Opposition members. So, there is in Hansard a record of commitment by the Prime Minister, when he was Leader of the Opposition, to the principle that we are asking the Government to accept. 
The Bill, as I said at the outset of my remarks, relates almost exclusively to the operation of this Parliament. We will not oppose the second reading of the Bill. We are unhappy about the transfer of ministerial control of this office to the surveillance of the Prime Minister. That is a bad decision, and one that we would seek to review at some time in the future. We ask the Government to give most serious consideration to the amendment that we will propose in the Committee stage of the debate. 
-Unlike the legislation the House has just disposed of, the Bill that we are now debating has ramifications and a significance far beyond the internal operations of this Parliament. This legislation and the companion legislation to establish the office of an Australian ombudsman are both extremely significant phases in the development within Australia not only of our administration law; they are also momentous events in the evolution of our system of government. 
The legislation we are debating tonight and the Ombudsman Bill 1975 are the legislative results of a process which was commenced in 1968 by the Gorton Government when, at the initiative of the then Attorney-General, the honourable Nigel Bowen, a committee styled the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committeelater to be known commonly as the Kerr Committee- was established. This body was given the responsibility of carrying out an investigation into the whole question of the procedures which ought to be made available for the review of ministerial and official administrative discretions and to generally report on and suggest methods by which a review procedure might be established. 
No doubt many honourable members have read the report of the Kerr Committee. I am sure they would agree with me that it will go down as one of the most outstanding documents covering this particular subject which has been written in the common law world. The provision of an effective system to review the exercise of administrative discretion has the strong support of the Opposition Parties. I should like to make that clear at the outset of this debate. We are strongly in favour of legislation in this area. We have some severe reservations about the legislation presently before the House. There can be no doubt as to our general attitude towards legislation of this nature and the need to provide a more co-ordinated system for the review of administrative discretions and decisions. Perhaps to enforce this, might I read to the House from the policy statement issued by the joint Opposition 
Parties at the time of the May 1974 election in which it was stated: 
A Liberal-Country Party Government will establish an ombudsman. 
Additionally, it will take all necessary steps to provide an effective means of appeal and redress from administrative decisions of officials and tribunals to ensure that citizens have direct and effective protection against bureaucratic decisions. 
It is therefore with some sense of disappointment that the Opposition addresses itself to the provisions of the legislation now under debate. We come into this debate as the Parties which initiated the process which has ended in the production of this legislation. The process was commenced by an Attorney-General of Liberal persuasion. It was initiated by a Liberal-Country Party Government. 
A further committee, a Bland Committee, was established in 1971, once again at the initiative of a Liberal-Country Party Government. This time it was the McMahon Government. That Committee was set up to investigate in detail the types of discretions and decisions which ought to become the subject of review by the bodies which had been recommended by the Kerr Committee report. So we come to this debate with a very strong record of action taken to initiate the establishment of an effective system of review of administrative decisions and discretions. In no sense have we been found wanting in this particular area. It is therefore with a sense of some disappointment that we examine the legislation. I shall comment later on the reasons we feel that this legislation is severely deficient in a number of important respects. 
Before I do that I should like to deal with another matter. I would not want the House to believe that the support the Opposition so freely gives to the establishment of an effective system of review should be misinterpreted or misunderstood. In no way should that support be regarded as a placid acceptance by the Opposition that a government of any political persuasion in this country has a free rein as the extent to which it may intrude into the lives of citizens, their personal and their business affairs. 
There are, in fact, 2 issues involved in this. The first issue is the extent to which Government ought to concern itself in the affairs of the citizens of the country. The second issue is that given that a certain amount of intrusion is necessary, there ought to be established an effective system of review of decisions made by Ministers and officials which affect the ordinary citizens of this country in their daily, personal and business lives. 
As to the first of those things, the extent to which a government- be it a government of the persuasion of the present Government or a government of our persuasion- should intrude by regulation or in any other manner into the way in which people conduct their own lives either on a personal or a business basis, is a matter of continuing concern to the Opposition. It will be a matter of continuing scrutiny by the Opposition and will be a matter about which there will always be a very strong difference of opinion and a marked difference of approach between those who sit on the Opposition side of this Parliament and those who currently sit on the Government side. 
We are concerned tonight with legislation which seeks to establish a method by which decisions of Ministers and officials can be reviewed. I do not think there would be anybody in Australia who is more cognisant of the extent to which the ordinary personal and business lives of citizens of Australia are being intruded upon by regulations, rules, government action, ministerial decisions and departmental discretion than would the members of this Parliament. I say that without passing any comment on whether such intrusion is necessary. I think there would be no body of people in Australia who are more aware of the extent to which in our complex society our daily lives are so regularly subject to decisions by governments and decisions of agencies of governments. It is therefore of immediate concern not only to the people of Australia but also to the orderly operations of our own lives and occupations that we should be concerned. We ought to bring to this debate a more than usual understanding of the sorts of problems that are encompassed in trying to establish an effective tribunal to review the sorts of things about which we are talking tonight. Members of Parliament, perhaps above aU other, are aware of the sorts of problems that people have with ministerial decisions, the frustrations they experience when they approach a department and ask for the exercise of a discretion in their favour and find that the answer is unsatisfactory. Often they have a sense of great injustice that the decision has been given against them and they have a sense of enormous frustration about not being able to do anything about it. 
As the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  pointed out in his second reading speech, there is no doubt that the need for a tribunal as envisaged by this Bill has become more acute in modern times. There is no doubt, that the complexity of our lives and the extent to which governments regulate and intrude into our lives have certainly increased dramatically since the end of the Second World War. The extent to which this intrusion has occurred has increased and the number of areas of our lives which are regulated by government has become a veritable flood since December 1972. But it would be a mistake to imagine that the need to have the sort of tribunal envisaged by this legislation is a phenomenon of the last ten or fifteen years. Concern has been expressed for decades regarding the extent of the rule and law making power, the extent of administrative discretion vested in Ministers and departmental officials and the need to have an effective method by which these decisions should be reviewed. 
Those who have done some study of this area no doubt Will have come across what has become a very well known text on this subject, 'The New Despotism', which was written by Lord Hewart in 1 929. The question might well be asked why it has taken so long for countries of our tradition and our experience, and in particular why it has taken so long for this country, to reach the conclusion that the sort of tribunal and the sort of general overall review process which is envisaged in this legislation are necessary. I could perhaps advance a number of reasons but I think the most important reason- in the context of this debate it ought to be understood- that it has taken so long for us to reach this point is that in our system of government, the common law system of government, the Westminster system of government, the reputation of the Public Service has been extremely high. 
There are other systems of government in the world where the tradition of an essentially incorruptible Public Service is not taken for granted. Generally speaking it has been the happy experience of our system of government that one can take for granted a Public Service that is essentially incorruptible, a Public Service which most citizens regard as basically trying to do the right thing and a Public Service which over the years has developed a reputation for integrity and fair dealing. So it is in no sense of recrimination against the performance of the Public Service in the history of this Commonwealth that we on the Opposition side say quite clearly and categorically that the need for an effective overall system of review of decisions by public servants is necessary. It is certainly no reflection. It is no indictment of their record over the years. It is no indictment of their integrity or of their efficiency. 
Neither should it be thought that to introduce an overall comprehensive system of review of administrative discretions and of departmental decisions will create a climate in which there may be greater inefficiency in the Public Service. Some might think: 'If you provide a procedure whereby they know their decisions can be appealed against that inevitably will create an attitude of lassitude, an attitude of indifference'. This was an argument to which the Kerr Committee addressed itself in compiling its report. That report argued quite clearly that if a proper balance is achieved between the administrative efficiency and the need to provide for the rights of the individual, an effective review process, so far from leading to inefficiency, will in fact increase efficiency. I shall quote from Lord Hewart's work 'The New Despotism' on this subject. I think it is relevant. 
It may not be the latest contribution but it is relevant to the point we make. It states: 
What is likely to be the effect, in the long run, upon the mind of that official if he knows beforehand that any decision which he may give, however unreasonable it may be, and however little capable of being co-ordinated with other decisions given in a similar way, cannot in any circumstances be questioned before a Court? Nobody imagines that he approaches the task with the conscious intention of doing injustice. But it is tolerably obvious that in such a case different considerations may apply from those which would naturally lead up to an extremely careful and wellconsidered system where every decision was made with the knowledge that at any moment both it and the rest might have to be explained and defended in public before an impartial investigator. 
I think that is precisely the object of this legislation. Even though those words were written in 1929 they are relevant to the issue to which we are addressing ourselves tonight; that the establishment of an overall system of review in this area will not induce inefficiency, rather it will promote efficiency. It is not in any sense an indictment of the performance of the Public Service or any indictment of its essential integrity, rather it is a recognition of the overwhelming need to achieve a balance between administrative efficiency and the protection of the rights of the individual. It is for that reason that the Opposition is strongly in support of an effective system of legislation in this area. 
As honourable members are aware, many avenues of review presently exist. All of us who sit here in this Parliament in a sense represent an avenue of administrative review. All of us make representations in respect of ministerial and departmental decisions. All of us ask the Public Service day by day to change its mind, to exercise its discretion in the opposite direction. All of us seek relief on behalf of individuals. Quite plainly, that is simply not enough- not enough in the sense that we are not doing that efficiently. 
The sheer volume and sheer complexity of the issues involved in many ministerial and departmental decisions are such that a far more comprehensive system of review is necessary. 
We have also the prerogative writs- the ancient writs which provide methods of obtaining redress against adminstrative excesses, compel administrative bodies to exercise their responsibilities and prevent them from exercising their responsibilities in other circumstances. It is perhaps proper for me to quote very briefly from the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee, known as the Kerr Committee. In paragraph 58 it deals in general terms with existing courts, principles and remedies available in this field, which include the prerogative writs. The very pertinent and salutary comment was made: 
The basic fault of the entire structure is, however, that review cannot as a general rule, in the absence of special statutory provisions, be obtained 'on the merits'- and this is usually what the aggrieved citizen is seeking. 
Plainly, what the aggrieved citizen is seeking is a reversal of the decision. He does not feel that the decision has given him, in plain language, a fango and he is interested in obtaining a review on the merits. It is precisely the absence of an effective system of obtaining review on the merits which above all other considerations demands that there should be an effective system of review. 
Honourable members will also be aware that elaborate systems of review exist under certain Acts. I refer by way of example to the Repatriation Appeals Tribunal and the Taxation Board of Review. Honourable members will be aware of many others. In their own limited areas these tribunals and bodies are very effective but they suffer from the comment that was made in the Minister's second reading speech, that they have grown up in an ad hoc manner, that they are unco-ordinated and that there is a need to provide an overall approach to the whole problem. There is an obvious need to provide a more comprehensive system. 
I come more specifically to the terms of the Bill. The approach of the Government has been to establish a tribunal with 3 divisions- a general division, a medical division and a valuation and compensation division. The Opposition has no general quarrel with this. It generally follows the suggestion of the Bland Committee report although that particular report recommended the establishment of 3 separate tribunals. The sense of disappointment in the Opposition, of which I spoke earlier, is most acute in respect of clause 26 of the Bill. Clause 26 says in effect that the Government will not confer any jurisdiction on this tribunal which it has just established; it will merely contemplate the circumstances in which jurisdiction may be conferred on it in the future. That is the clause of the Bill which causes the Opposition the greatest sense of disappointment. After a period of 5 years and 3 reports which have been accepted by experts in this field as being quite outstanding contributions to the general issue- the Bland Committee report provided detailed recommendations of those Acts, regulations, ordinances and so forth which ought to be the subject of this particular piece of legislation- what has the Government done? The Government has established this tribunal and given it absolutely no jurisdiction at all. All it has done is to say that in future the tribunal may hear appeals against decisions made by ministers and departmental officials under legislation passed in the future. 
If any honourable member minks that this Bill, when it passes into law, will provide an avenue by which an aggrieved citizen can appeal against an administrative discretion under an existing Act of this Parliament which ought to be the subject of appeal if a person is dissatisfied with the exercise of that discretion, he is totally wrong because there is absolutely no jurisdiction conferred by this Bill. Clause 26 merely says that the tribunal may entertain appeals against decisions made under future legislative enactments. There is absolutely nothing in the language of clause 26 or indeed of any other provision of the Bill which makes it obligatory or mandatory for this Government or any government in the future when drafting legislation to provide for a process of appeal against the exercise of administrative discretions. One does not need to have very much imagination to realise that at some time in the future, no matter what may be the present intention of the Government, a zealous minister who is not very keen on having the exercise of his discretion subject to appeal or review, may make sure that the appropriate provision is not inserted in his legislation. 
In the Opposition's view, this is simply not good enough. Whilst we will not oppose the second reading of this legislation because we support effective legislation in this area, during the Committee stage of the debate we will move comprehensive amendments to clause 26 in order to write into the Bill a schedule which reproduces in very large measure the detailed recommendations of the Bland Committee report as to the areas which ought to be the subject of appeal to the tribunal established by this legislation. It is simply not a good enough performance by this Government after a period of 5 years of the most comprehensive review and investigation to present to this Parliament a Bill which is nothing more than an empty gesture to the provision of an effective system of administrative review. To establish a tribunal and to give it no jurisdiction at all is certainly nothing short of an empty gesture. 
Other amendments will be moved during the Committee stage of the debate. They Will be dealt with at length at that stage. But one of them is of particular importance, and that is our proposal that there should be established an administrative review council. This was recommended in the Kerr Committee report. The recommendation was made in the light of an examination by that Committee of the experience of a similar body in the United Kingdom. I think it is proper when reviewing the sorts of institutions that should be established in this area to draw not over zealously but discriminately on the experience of countries which have shared a common system of government. The United Kingdom experience with an administrative review council has been a successful one. It was seen to be a successful one in the Kerr Committee report, and the Opposition supports the establishment of such a body. In general terms, the purpose of the administrative review council will be to provide an on-going reiview of how the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is operating, to keep under constant examination areas of legislation which ought to be added to those which come within the purview of the Tribunal's operations, and genrally to recommend improvements and alterations to the procedures under which the Tribunal operates. 
Quite clearly the Tribunal, if it is given the sort of jurisdiction that the Opposition wants to give it, will be an extremely busy body. If citizens use it in the way that we would hope it to be used it will have quite enough day to day work without having the responsibility of trying to review its own operations. There is a very clear need to have as a companion to the Tribunal a council which can take a very much longer view of the operations of the Tribunal and generally make recommendations to improve its performance. It is also the intention of the Opposition during the Committee stage to move a series of amendments to delete reference to the Superior Court and to transfer the jurisdiction which the Government would hope to be exercised by the Superior Court to the Supreme Courts of the various States. 
In summary, I state that the Opposition welcomes legislation in this area. We would welcome the proper fruition of the process which was commenced by a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1968. We see a very clear need in Australia in 1975 to have a comprehensive system of review of the exercise of administrative discretions and decisions. We are extremely disappointed that the Government 's legislation falls so far short of the aspirations that many honourable members on both sides of the House must have had when the legislation was introduced. There has been built up in the Australian community an expectation that we would have established an effective system of administrative review. I think it is fair to say that it has been the POliCY of all the major political parties in Australia for a number of years to have an ombudsman and to have an effective system of tribunal review of administrative decisions. It is for that reason that the Opposition will not oppose the motion that this Bill be read a second time. We accept the need for legislation. We are very disappointed at the job that the Government has done with this legislation. We think that it is nothing short of an empty gesture. We hope that the Government will give very serious considerations to the amendments that we propose. The purpose of these amendments is to give the Tribunal some jurisdiction, to get the Tribunal operating once it has been established and therefore meet the need that has been perceived for so long by many in the Australian community. 
-I strongly support and commend to everybody in this chamber the proposition put by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  in his amendment. He suggested that, as far as possible with legislation of this nature, we should endeavour to arrive at some consensus as to the widely held views of people in the community in relation to what our divorce laws should state.  His  amendment has within it the closest approach to a consensus view of the central issue in a divorce law, and that is the ground for divorce, which has yet been presented during this debate. There has been a lot of humbug during the debate about the issue of fault. Those who drafted the Bill initially left considerations of conduct and fault out of the Bill entirely. They were obliged to admit that those considerations had to be included when one looked at the welfare and custody of children and appropriate amendments to that effect were made during the course of the Senate's deliberations on the Bill. 
I therefore do not think it is departing from the central element- the main thrust- of this Bill to concede the evidence of some conduct or behaviour and what some people would call' fault' in a very small degree when looking at the ground for divorce. I want to emphasise that sub-paragraph (c) of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  will permit consideration of conduct and behaviour in a very limited number of cases. The reason why that sub-paragraph has been included is that, if it is not included, a large number of people who presently can obtain divorces quite quickly will have to wait a period of 12 months. In fact, if the amendment of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  is successful, these people will have to wait a period of 2 years. 
I put to honourable members the case- unhappily it is not entirely uncommon- where a marriage is never consummated and parties still endeavour over a period, sometimes of 12 or 18 months, to live together- -cohabitating according to the law- in an attempt to make their marriage work and, after a period of 12 or 18 months, they find that the marriage can never be consummated. Under the existing law- the so-called harsh, repressive, matrimonial causes law- after they have decided the marriage will not work one of the parties can petition immediately for a divorce on the grounds that the marriage has never been consummated. Under the Bill which the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has introduced, that person who would have to wait a further period of 12 months. The parties, after having struggled for 18 months in the most distressing circumstances to make their marriage work, would then have to separate physically for a further period of 12 months before a petition could be lodged. Sub-paragraph (c) of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth has been included to cover categories of cases such as that. 
In this regard I commend the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I thought he made a very proper remark in saying that much of this Bill has been drafted on middle-class assumptions of mobility of partners to a marriage. There is a greater incidence of divorce these days often because people can afford to live separately and apart, whereas a generation ago they could not. Women are more economically independent, therefore they no longer have to tolerate the situations to which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  referred. Indeed, if the sort of proviso which is inherent in sub-paragraph (c) of the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth 's amendment is not included in this Bill we will, in many respects, be turning the clock back. 
This Bill has been hailed by its protagonists as being a step forward- an enlightened piece of legislation to sweep away bitterness, frustration, legalities and technicalities. But in an overadherence to the concept of abolishing fault and the relevance of conduct entirely, greater injustice will be done to some people in the community than is being done at the present time. Above all, legislation of this nature must cater for the spectrum of community views on divorce and marriage. A strong community view exists that marriage is an important institution and that therefore there should be a 2 year proviso which pays respect to that institution. A strong view also exists that when, after a reasonable time parties to a marriage are agreed that their marriage ought to be dissolved, it should be dissolved and that therefore there should be a 12 months proviso where both people want a divorce. A strong view also exists that, in a limited number of special cases, it is intolerable to ask a party to a marriage, be it the man or the woman, to wait even for a period of 12 months before commencing proceedings. 
-The question of whether a Family Court should be established is a matter about which I am not entirely dogmatic. I concede that some very forceful arguments can be advanced in favour of it. I have been drawn into this debate by some of the extraordinary arguments that have been advanced during the course of it by the protagonists in favour of the establishment of a Family Court. An extraordinary contribution was made to the debate by the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn).  He said, as best as I can recapitulate his remarks, that on an average the judges of the New South Wales courts who administer the matrimonial causes jurisdiction spend about half an hour on each case and that, of course, is just not enough time to spend on each case. Leaving aside for the moment whether he has his mathematics precisely correct, the fact remains that one of the arguments that has been consistently and at times mischievously advanced by the supporters of this Bill is that its aim is to reduce the cost and the delay in divorce proceedings. Therefore I find it rather extraordinary that somebody who has consistently voted to put this Bill into law should use as an argument against one of the amendments the proposition that at present judges are not spending sufficient time on administering the law. 
I remind the honourable member for Cook and any other honourable member who does not agree with the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  that the law of divorce has been uniform since 1959. The Family Law Bill does not establish uniformity in divorce law. The Commonwealth has had a jurisdiction in marriage and divorce since Federation. That jurisdiction was taken up in 1959 by the present Matrimonial Causes Act. The proposition that has to be examined is whether circumstances exist at present to justify the creation of a separate elaborate court structure to administer this Bill. If for no other reason than our present economic circumstances, I think it is extraordinary that a proposal should be made for the establishment of an elaborate, expensive structure which will undoubtedly cost a large amount of money and which will undoubtedly cause considerable administrative confusion insofar as the inauguration of the court is concerned. On that argument alone the establishment of such a court is barely justifiable. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  also advanced a very extraordinary argument, that is, that what is wrong with the existing court structure is, of course, that all of the judges who have been appointed to the State courts that are exercising the matrimonial causes jurisdiction were without experience in divorce law but were steeped in criminal law and in other specialties of the law unrelated to the divorce law. I think the honourable member for Griffith in making that statement manifests a total ignorance of the situation. If he is going to advance sensible arguments in favour of the proposition of his friend in this debate, the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  he ought to draw at least on some experience with which he has had acquaintance. The fact of the matter is that to categorise judges of the State courts who perform the duties in matrimonial causes as being inexperienced, as being old fogeys, or as being inadequate to perform the task is at very best an unkind remark and at worst is a total slur on their performance and their professional dignity. I hope that if the honourable member for Griffith intervenes again in this debate he will bring to that intervention a degree of expertise greater than he brought to the clause we are discussing. He displays no knowledge of and a total ignorance of the facts of the situation. 
The question of whether or not we should have a Family Court can be decided only on balance. I do not deny that there are some arguments that can be advanced in favour of it. It was not until my friend the honourable member for Wentworth moved the amendment that I was entirely persuaded I should support it. I do think that on balance the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth ought to be carried by this House. 
-The letter just read by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has gone a long way towards explaining the historical antecedents of the present Matrimonial Causes Act but it does not give an unqualified denial to the remarks that have been made by the honourable members for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth).  The difficulty that I find in accepting the view of Professor Nygh is that its complete acceptance is dependent upon a paragraph which as I recollect is about three-quarters of the way through the letter, where the learned professor said: 
Indeed, there is a strong argument- supported by many judges in England and Australia- that an Australian, being domiciled in a country permitting monogamy only - 
Meaning Australia-  cannot lawfully marry in a polygamous fashion, either here or abroad. 
The problem that I see about clause 6 as it is presently drafted is that so far from it being drafted in reliance on that strong view by the  inclusion of the words 'shall be deemed to be a marriage ', which appear at the end of the clause, it could in fact raise a very real doubt whether a person normally domiciled in Australia, which is a country which does not permit polygamy, who goes to another country, enters into another marriage in that country where polygamy is permitted and returns to Australia with his second wife- this is precisely the point that was made by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)-  does in fact have 2 wives according to the interpretation of the clause. This is my concern. I do not think, with respect to the honourable member for Prospect, that Professor Nygh 's letter gives the total answer. 
Question put: 
That amendment No. 13  (Mr Wentworth's)  be agreed to. 
-Briefly, I would like to second the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Part of the atmosphere of support that has been generated for this Bill has been among those who have felt in the past that our laws have presumed far too much, and that to far too great an extent the only role for a woman in marriage is the traditional role of a wife and the bringing up of children. I would be the first to concede that perhaps in years past there has been an undue bias in that direction and what ideally speaking we ought to achieve is a situation where, with proper regard to the interests of children, women are in a position to exercise a choice as to whether they should fulfil a full-time wife and mother role or only a parttime one. 
The proposition that is inherent in the amendmentI think it needs to be recognised- is that in the process of redressing the balance we might have gone a bit too far and we may be effectively closing off, not only in this legislation but in other legislation that affects the relationship in marriage between men and women, the option of the full time wife and mother role. As I see it, in no way does this amendment destroy some of the other objectives of the Bill so far as maintenance is concerned, but I think the amendment does bring back to the Bill, certainly so far as the principles to be applied by the Court are concerned, a much needed balance so that we do have, hopefully, something approaching the ideal situation where, if a woman does opt for the traditional role of a wife and a mother on a completely full time basis, she should not in any sense be at a disadvantage. If the purpose of clause 43 is to state the broad principles which ought to be applied by the Family Court in exercising its jurisdiction, and if we are to include any principles in that, surely there ought to be room for the expression of the principle that there is a need to protect a woman within marriage who, in the exercise of choice, opts for the full time wife or mother role. 
-My support for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  goes beyond the concern expressed about fraud by both the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I am concerned also about the confusion that will be caused by the retention in the clause of the words 'has rendered some household services to the other'. It will be confusing on 2 counts. Firstly, inevitably there will be a difference of opinion between persons who might have resort to this law as to what constitutes a household service. 
I think most people can understand the intent of the words or the effect of the clause: That is, even if a person continues to reside in the same residence it is possible to say that cohabitation has ceased. But when we start talking about rendering 'some household services' I think we introduce unreasonable elements of confusionconfusion as to what constitutes household services and also confusion as to what degree of household services need to be rendered in order to bring the exclusion contained in the clause into operation. Far be it for me to embrace all the arguments that have been advanced in favour of the legislation, but one that has generally been argued is that this legislation will bring to the divorce law of this country a marvellous simplicity: Everybody will know that the single ground for divorce is separation for a period of 12 months, and if all the doubts, worries and concern are removed people will understand what the law is. I would generally subscribe to the view that, as far as possible, the laws ought to be intelligible to the layman who reads the relevant Act. 
Whilst I can wholeheartedly agree that the first part of subparagraph (2) certainly expresses the law as it has existed for a long time- I would not doubt that for a moment- I also concede that there have been cases in which a few household services have not negatived the proposition that cohabitation has been brought to an end under the same roof. But I think to spell it out in this statute will, quite apart from the issue of fraud, bring into this particular area of the Bill an imprecision, a confusion, and perhaps quite unwittingly and against their will parties may get into a situation the full consequences of which they do not realise. 
I ask the Committee to give very serious consideration to the amendment of the honourable member for Bradfield. I do not think the amendment is meant in any terms other than to clear up a possible area of confusion. I do not think it really goes to a matter of principle so far as the Bill is concerned but I think it is a genuine attempt to remove an area of confusion and also, as the honourable member for Perth has pointed out, to block off a possible avenue of abuse through fraud and deception. On both of those grounds I hope the Committee will support the amendment of the honourable member for Bradfield. 
I rise to take up the concern expressed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  but not necessarily at this stage to speak in total support of his proposed amendment. I confess to a confusion about the matter in my mind. Because it involves a fairly important issue and is something that can be divorced completely from the basic difference of opinion expressed on this Bill, I would be very grateful for an explanation as to precisely what the words 'ancestor' and 'descendant' mean in this context. As I understand it- I will be grateful if the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  in his helping role in this debate, is able to correct me on this clause as at present as the Bill stands it will permit marriages between a niece and an uncle and between a nephew and an aunt. My understanding of the word 'ancestor' is that it applies in a straight up and down line and that the wording in these provisions would prohibit marriages between parents and children. If that is to be the intent of the legislationI would be grateful if the situation could be explained, because I do not think this is an area about which there ought to be any confusion at all- I would have thought that it would have been far more practical and sensible to have spelled out the situation, if in fact the number of prohibitions on marriage within prohibited relationships is being cut down. If my understanding of the words 'ancestor' and 'descendant' is correct, the number of prohibited marriages under this Bill is very limited. I ask the AttorneyGeneral to give very serious consideration to this matter. I would be grateful to know his point of view on the interpretation I have put on the words 'ancestor' and 'descendant'. 
-The Opposition will accept the assurances given by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  regarding progress with the erection of a jurisdiction for this legislation. In so doing, I should like the Attorney-General to understand that the Opposition takes a very serious view of this matter. The fact that we will not divide the Committee on our amendment to clause 26 should in no way be construed by the Government as a successful fob off of the subject. We will look very carefully at progress when this legislation reaches another place. 
Amendment negatived. 
I seek leave of the Committee to move amendments 1 and 2 circulated in my name. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (3) omit 'Governor-General determines', substitute 'prescribed '. 
Omit sub-clause (4). 
These are relatively simple amendments. The Opposition can see no reason why the restriction which presently exists in sub-clause (4) should be retained. If the Opposition's amendment to sub-clause (3) to substitute the word 'prescribed' for the words 'Governor-General determines' is accepted there is all the more reason that the restriction contained in sub-clause (4) should be eliminated. That is the purpose of the amendments. 
-The Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia which form the joint Opposition in this Parliament will oppose the motion contained in notice No. 6 standing in the name of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I think it is appropriate in addressing some arguments to the speech just made by the Minister to recall that this is the first redistribution of electoral boundaries that has been carried out under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act as amended at the Joint Sitting of this House and the Senate in July of last year. The last Australia-wide redistribution of electoral boundaries was carried out in 1968. Since then there have been a number of significant changes to the criteria under which redistribution has been carried out. I think all members of this House will recall the very extensive debate and argument which occurred at the Joint Sitting regarding the indicia to be applied by the Distribution Commissioners in each of the States in carrying out a redistribution. Members of the House will also recall the attitude taken by the joint Opposition Parties on the occasion when these changes were put through by the Government at the Joint Sitting. 
Since the 1968 redistribution was carried out 1 8 year old voters have also been included on the rolls and there has been a significant change so far as migrant enrolment is concerned with respect to the reduction from 5 years to 3 years of the necessary period for which a migrant must be resident before qualifying for enrolment. The broad approach of the Opposition to all the redistribution proposals has already been indicated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony).  For reasons which will be developed during the debate on the proposals for the States we will be opposing the resolutions standing in the name of the Minister in respect of the 5 separate redistribution proposals. 
The redistribution has been carried out in each State under the same Act and has been carried out in each of the States at the same time. The proposals, generally speaking, are being presented for approval to this Parliament at the same time. Therefore the only proper approach that either the Opposition side or the Government side can take to the redistribution proposals is a general approach. With the exception of Western Australia, the redistribution represents a national redistribution. As the Leader of the House indicated in his speech there have been some very substantial changes in various electorates. The Leader of the House and other honourable members will be aware that section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act contains the criteria under which the redistribution must be carried out. The Distribution Commissioners are required to give due consideration to community of interests, to means of communication and travel, to trend of population changes, to physical features of each division and- and 1 stress this- to existing boundaries of divisions and subdivisions. I think the argument can be specifically developed in respect of notice No. 7 that perhaps greater weight could have been given to paragraph (e) of section 19 than has been given in respect of the proposals for the State of Tasmania. So the Distribution Commissioners must consider the various matters in section 19. 
Of course, it is within the knowledge of all honourable members that it would be an extremely difficult task for anybody charged with the responsibility of redistribution to be terribly dogmatic, particularly in metropolitan areas, and more particularly in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne, as to where community of interest stops and starts. We all know that the broad community of interest of the capital cities of Australia is a whole. It is extremely difficult to say with any degree of certainty that a boundary should be drawn in one area rather than in another. Therefore it is not an easy task for a redistribution commission to carry out a redistribution of electorates. 
I think it is an entirely responsible attitude for an Opposition, after having examined the proposals in detail, to form the view that they are unacceptable. The Minister himself said in his speech on the motion that there were certain proposals with which the Government did not agree. Naturally, he reserves the right to have an opinion on the redistribution that was carried out. Nobody is a total, infallible expert on the subject of redistribution. It is a highly arguable subject. It goes to the very essence of political debate in Australia. Therefore I would suggest that in considering whether a set of redistribution proposals ought to be accepted this House ought to address its mind to the essential electoral justice of the redistribution proposals. In doing that it ought to concentrate its attention on the marginal seats. The Minister knows better than anybody else in this House that it does not really matter whether the Labor majority for the seat of Grayndler is reduced by 5 per cent or 10 per cent or whether the Liberal majority in Bradfield is changed by 5 per cent or 10 per cent. What really matters and what really goes to the essence of the electoral justice of these proposals is the impact of the proposals on the marginal seats, because it is the marginal seats, and the marginal seats alone, which determine which party holds government. 
It is absolute humbug to tie yourself completely to an overall examination of percentages. If you want to determine whether there is essential electoral justice in these proposals, you concentrate your attention on the marginal seats. The Minister has been quick to quote the authority of  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, who is acknowledged as a person of some expertise in this area. Honourable members will be aware of the various electoral pendulums that have been produced by that gentleman. Two pendulums which I think are extremely interesting- and I will seek leave at the conclusion of my remarks to have them incorporated in Hansard- appeared in the 'Bulletin' on 12 April after the initial proposals had been put out by the various redistribution commissions. The first shows the situation as it is at the present time. If there is a swing of 3 per cent against the Government, 12 seats will be lost by the Government to the Opposition. In other words the Government would be decisively put out of office. The second shows that under the new proposals, if there were a swing of 3 per cent, only 7 seats would be lost by the Government- a significant change of 5 seats. 
The marginal seats are the seats that really matter when you are talking about government. They are the seats which will determine whether or not government changes. It is no use spending a lot of time talking about the variations in the majorities in safe seats on either side of the pendulum. What all of us know to be' a reality is that seats such as Isaacs, Diamond Valley, Denison and Sturt are the seats that really matter. They are the seats that determine whether the Government is to change. 
-The honourable member asks about Parramatta. That will be converted into an automatic Labor seat. There is a very distinct bias in these proposals, as they affect the marginal seats, towards the Government. Generally speaking, marginal Labor seats have been made safer. Generally speaking, it has been made more difficult for marginal Labor seat holders to be dislodged. Whereas on the present boundaries a swing of 3 per cent against the Government would give the Opposition 12 extra seats, under these proposals a 3 per cent swing would give the Opposition only 7 extra seats. If you realise, as I think you have to in an argument such as this, that the only things that really matter are the marginal seats, however sensitive the holders of safe seats on both sides of this House may be, you see that there is a very distinct bias in favour of the Government all over Australia. This is a national redistribution. It has to be looked at nationally and no Opposition would be responsible unless it took a national approach to it. It is for that reason that the Opposition has decided to oppose the proposals in respect of 5 States. 
The Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia have already referred in their arguments to the well known fact that a census will be earned out in 1976, and in all probability it will be necessary for a further redistribution to be carried out in some, if not all, States. The Leader of the National Country Party also advanced the argument that the very changes to the electoral legislation under which this redistribution has been carried out are under challenge at the present time in the High Court of Australia. I know that it is occasionally the habit of the Government to ignore the fact that something is under legal challenge and to go ahead irrespective of whether its constitutionality in doing so is beyond all doubt. We on the Opposition side of the House would submit that something as fundamental as redistribution, something going so much to the essence of electoral justice and something which will directly and literally determine which Party governs after the next election ought not go ahead if there is any shred of legal doubt regarding the constitutionality of those proposals. Taking a broad national view, I submit there are very substantial reasons of electoral justice why these proposals should all be rejected by this House. 
-The first question that one is forced to ask about the electoral redistribution proposals for Tasmania is why on earth was it ever necessary to carry out an electoral redistribution in Tasmania? I know that very strong arguments could be advanced as to why some change in boundaries in other States was necessary. But when one looks at the enrolments in Tasmania as at December 1974- the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  had referred to these in his speechone sees that the variations are only 6.8 1 per cent below quota and 6.1 1 per cent above the quota. 
We have a situation in which none of the 5 seats in Tasmania in any way approaches the maximum variation from the quota set under the new Act. One might ask why it was necessary at all to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania. One might also ask why a double standard was applied in respect of Tasmania and Western Australia because Western Australia, where no redistribution has been carried out, has one seat- the seat of Kalgoorlie- which is 15.9 per cent below quota. I ask the question: Why on earth was it necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania when the fact that a seat in Western Australia has been 15.9 per cent below quota has been totally ignored and a redistribution has not been carried out. 
Those criteria were taken out of the Act at the Joint Sitting. The fact remains that the quota for Kalgoorlie has fallen short by 15.9 per cent. Yet it has been found necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania, a State in which these sort of variations have not occurred. The variations in all electorates in Tasmania are within the quota. 
In examining the proposals for Tasmania we might first ask why it is necessary that a redistribution be carried out. If there is one thing that promotes a considerable contempt of parliamentary representation it is confusion amongst voters. I think all honourable members would agree that as far as possible there should be huie disturbance in electoral boundaries. That is why one of the criteria in section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act is that the Distribution Commissioners must adhere to existing boundaries of electorates. Tasmania is a State which has an extremely static population. I do not think any honourable member opposite would argue that there will be a substantial explosion of population in Tasmania over the next few years. The increase in population in the electorates of Denison and Franklin, the 2 seats in which there has been an increase in population, has been constant and the population is stable. 
I once again get back to the question why on earth it was necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania. There is no compulsion under the Act to set boundaries which are any different from the existing boundaries. It would have been quite competent for the Distribution Commissioners, having been asked to draw boundaries, to have set boundaries which were exactly the same as the existing ones. There would have been no reason why they could not have done that. It would have been in accordance with the criteria laid down under the Act. In fact, such a result would have been met with the approval of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  because in a submission to the Distribution Commissioners the honourable member argued very strongly against any alteration in the boundaries of Franklin and Denison. He was very trenchant on this point. He said: 
Essentially I submit that upon the evidence available there is no justification for any alteration to the present boundaries of the electorate of Franklin at this stage. 
He went on to recapitulate the arguments that I have just used. He pointed out how static the population was. He stressed the need to preserve as far as possible the existing boundaries and as far as possible to eliminate voter confusion. 
So I once again ask the question which has been asked by the Government's own member in Franklin: Why was it necessary to carry out a redistribution? I am at a total loss to know why it was necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania. Surely the Government is satisfied with the electoral result in Tasmania where it holds 100 per cent of the seats in the House of Representatives. Surely it did not want an increase on that result. So, as I have said, I cannot understand why it was necessary to carry out a redistribution. 
I merely recapitulate the argument that I advanced at the commencement of the debate on the South Australian proposals. The Opposition looks at this matter from a national point of view. What we really have to look at in determining whether an electoral distribution is fair is the test of essential electoral justice; how easily can marginal seats change hands. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  made reference during his remarks on the South Australian proposal to attacks on the Distribution Commissioners. I do not impugn the integrity of any Distribution Commissioner. I never have done this and I do not think that I will have any reason to do so in this debate. But I reserve the right to disagree with them. This Parliament reserves the right to disagree with their conclusions. That is why it is necessary for the resolutions to be approved by both Houses of this Parliament. Just because the Opposition is opposing the redistribution does not mean that we are making any attacks on the individual integrity of Distribution Commissioners. Members of the Opposition have the right to disagree with their proposals and that is precisely what we are doing. 
Consistent with the approach that we have taken in respect of the South Australian proposals and consistent with the approach that we will take in respect of the other proposals, the Opposition will oppose the Tasmanian proposals. There is no manifest reason why a redistribution should have been carried out. I notice that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  is listed to speak in this debate. I will be interested to know his views on the views expressed by the honourable member for Franklin. It is a fact that the position of the honourable member for Denison has been strengthened somewhat by this redistribution from something like a majority of 2.9 per cent to a majority of 4.7 per cent. Of course, it would not have escaped the notice of all honourable members that Denison is one of that critical group of marginal seats which determine whether a Government will change. Naturally the Government will be anxious to see the acceptance of proposals which will strengthen its position in Denison. Having regard to the nature of existing divisions in Tasmania, I cannot see why it was necessary to cause confusion among the voters in that State. None of the electorates was out of kilter. None was more than 10 per cent above or below quota. Therefore neither I nor the Opposition can find any reason why it was necessary to change the boundaries in Tasmania. I will be interested to hear some reasons advanced by Government speakers. 
I move: 
Omit 'except with the approval of the Minister'. 
It seems to the Opposition that a member of the Tribunal is either a full time member or is not to be a full time member. I think most honourable members would agree that quite adequate remuneration is provided for in the Bill. The Government obviously intends that members of this Tribunal shall attract the rank and status of high judicial office and it seems somewhat odd to the Opposition that such a clause should have been inserted. It seems very strange that a person who is styled a full time member of the Tribunal should under any conceivable circumstances be engaged in paid employment outside the duties of his office. The conditions of the employment are not ungenerous. The work load of the Tribunal, particularly if the later amendments that the Opposition has proposed are accepted, will be very substantial, and we can see no good reason why the exception presently contained in clause 12 should remain. We therefore seek its deletion. 
-The Opposition is very pleased that the Government has moved the amendment. It is in substantially similar terms to an amendment to this clause which has been already circulated by the Opposition. We are very pleased that the Government has adopted the Opposition's approach to this clause which is that where conflicts of interest could arise, except with the consent of all parties to the proceeding, the  President  or such other member shall not take part in the proceedings and shall not exercise any powers relating to the review of the decision in question in the proceedings. Quite clearly, as the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  was kind enough to acknowledge in moving the amendment, the discretion given to the Minister is quite wide. This present Government is extremely concerned about disclosure of interest where possible conflicts of pecuniary interests might arise and it is entirely consistent with its approach in those matters that there be stricter rules regarding disclosure. We are very pleased to support the Attorney-General's amendment which takes up, in almost precise terms, the amendment already brought down by the Opposition. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause 15, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 16 to 25- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 26. 
An enactment may provide that applications may be made to the Tribunal- 
for review of decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred by that enactment; or 
b ) for review of decisions made in the exercise of  powers  conferred, or that may bee confered, by another enactment having effect under that enactment. 
Where an enactment, being an Act or an Ordinance of a Territory, authorizes the making of regulations prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the Act or Ordinance, regulations under the Act or Ordinance may provide, notwithstanding that so to provide would be inconsistent with the Act or Ordinance, that applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred by the Act or Ordinance, and, where regulations under the Act or Ordinance so provide, provision may also be made by regulations under the Act or Ordinance modifying or excluding the operation of any provision of the Act or Ordinance providing for appeals from or reviews of decisions in respect of which applications may be made to the Tribunal for review. 
Where an enactment provides for applications to the Tribunal, that enactment, or another enactment having effect under that enactment, may also include provisions adding to, excluding or modifying the operation of any of the provisions of sections 22, 23, 27, 29, 32, 33 and 35 or of subsection 43 (1) or (2) in relation to such applications and those sections and sub-sections have effect subject to any provisions so made. 
I move: Before sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following subclauses: (1a) Subject to sub-section (1b) an application may be made to the Tribunal for the review of a decision made by a person in exercise of a power conferred on that person by a provision specified in Parts I to VI of the Schedule to this Act. ( 1 b) The review by the Tribunal of a decision shall be subject to the limitations or extensions (if any) contained in the Schedule and set opposite the provisions by which the power to exercise that decision is conferred. (lc) The right to apply to the Tribunal for the review of a decision made by a person in exercise of a power conferred by a provision specified in Parts I, II, IV and V of the Schedule shall be in substitution for any right of appeal against or review of that decision whether by a court or other body given by that provision or by the enactment of which that provision forms part. (Id) Nothing in sub-sections (1a), (Ib) and (lc) shall affect any right of appeal or review which any person has at the date of commencement of this Act in respect of a decision referred to in sub-section ( 1 a). 
This is certainly the most important amendment to be moved by the Opposition to this Bill in its Committee stage. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and honourable members will recall that in the course of the second reading debate on this Bill the Opposition was extremely critical of the fact that, after this issue had been given such exhaustive examination by such capable people over such a long period, a tribunal had been established but no jurisdiction had been given to that tribunal. This fact extremely disappointed the Opposition. 
I will read to the Committee the opening words of the final report of the Committee on Administrative Discretion, that is, the final report of the Bland Committee, dated October 1973 and addressed to the precedessor of the present Attorney-General. The opening sentence reads: 
Your predecessor - 
The report refers there to the Attorney-General in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government:  appointed us to examine existing administrative discretions under Commonwealth statutes and regulations and to advise as to those in respect of which a review on the merits should be provided. 
In other words, the substance of this report was detailed recommendations as to the areas where administrative review on the merits ought to exist. 
It has been a consistent disappointment to the Opposition that, whilst we welcome the establishment of the tribunal and we welcome the first legislative step arising out of the process that was initiated in 1968, jurisdiction has not been given to it. We do not want the tribunal to be an empty shell. A long enough time has elapsed and sufficient examination of this issue has been undertaken by persons of undoubted expertise and competence. I remind the Committee that the need for immediate machinery for the review of administrative decisions and discretions is given added point by the employment figures that were made public today. Those figures indicate that employment in the public sector- in other words, employment in the Public Servicerose by 75 000 in the year to 31 March, while in the private sector employment fell by 1 39 900. 
What we have is a situation where the need is for an effective system of review, not just the bones as the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  referred to it in the second reading debate, not just the bare structure, but the flesh and the substance. We need this; and we need it very badly. There has been sufficient time and attention given to the subject. Therefore, the Opposition has seen fit to move in the terms of my amendment to clause 26. 
I remind the Committee that clause 26 refers to a number of schedules which are at the back of the document comprising the Opposition's amendments. These schedules contain the areas where there ought to be appeal from decisions, the areas of review, and in areas where it is appropriate detail the manner in which the tribunal should be constituted to hear the various appeals referred to in the schedules. We think that this amendment will give to the tribunal the substance and the flesh which is so sadly lacking at present. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2 ). 
The amendment seeks to eliminate sub-clause (2) of clause 26. The Opposition is concerned that under this sub-clause, it will be possible to make regulations which are quite inconsistent with the Act or an ordinance under which those regulations are made. I appreciate the reason why this sub-clause may have been inserted, but that does not preclude the Opposition being critical, I think with good reason, of a process whereby regulations under an Act could be inconsistent with the express terms of the Act or an ordinance. I think that in general circumstances the Attorney-General would agree that it is undesirable to have a situation where regulations made under an Act or ordinance can be inconsistent with the express terms of the Act or the ordinance under which those regulations are made. 
-The Opposition is not in a position to indicate total support for this amendment. As the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  will be aware, the amendment was circulated and a copy furnished to the Opposition only immediately before the resumption of this Committee debate. The Opposition is, frankly, not entirely sure as to the operation of paragraph (b). We are not very happy with certain aspects of it and for that reason we cannot accept the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 26, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 27. 
1 ) Where an enactment provides that an application may be made to the Tribunal for a review of a decision, the application may be made by or on behalf of any person or persons (including Australia or an authority of Australia) whose interests are affected by the decision. 
I move: 
Omit 'an' (first occurring), substitute 'this Act or any other'. 
This amendment is consequential on the Opposition's amendments to clause 26 and, having said that, I need not delay the Committee any longer. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 28. 
If a Minister certifies, by writing signed by him, that the disclosure of the contents of a statement prepared in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ) would be contrary to the public interest- 
by reason that it would prejudice the security, defence or international relations of Australia; 
by reason that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Cabinet or of a Committee of the Cabinet; or 
for any other reason specified in the certificate, the person who made the decision is not required by that sub-section to furnish the statement to the applicant. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) omit 'a Minister', substitute 'the Attorney-General '. 
In sub-clause (2) omit paragraph (c). 
These amendments relate to procedures under clause 28. The first amendment seeks to delete the words 'a Minister' and to substitute the words 'the Attorney-General'. I think that honourable members would agree that the power conferred by sub-clause (2) of clause 28 is an extremely wide power. The use of this power would enable a Minister and a department to escape the scrutiny of the Tribunal. It would deny access to the Tribunal to a person who is dissatisfied with an administrative decision. Therefore the Opposition takes the view that if by ministerial fiat access to that Tribunal is to be denied, the responsibility for making that decision should reside with the principal law officer of the Crown and the Government's legal adviser and should not be given to the individual Minister in question. Honourable members can understand that any Minister could be in a situation where for very understandable reasons he may not wish a decision which has been made by him in an extremely sensitive area to be the subject of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It is therefore desirable that the person who gives the authoritative certificate should be the Attorney-General, he being the person who, as far as it is possible to have a completely impartial ministerial mind on the subject, could bring such an impartial mind to bear. 
The second amendment seeks to delete paragraph (c) of sub-clause (2). The wording of this paragraph is extremely wide. It says: 
for any other reason specified in the certificate. 
What the clause seeks to say is that if a Ministerwe hope the Attorney-General- certifies that disclosure of the contents of a statement should not be made for any reason specified in that certificate then the disclosure will not be made. We think that this is an extraordinarily wide power. We do not object to the criteria laid down in paragraphs (a) and (b) and we may not object to some other criteria that the Government might at this stage or at some future stage like to add. But simply to give a blanket authority to the Minister to certify that a document is not to be disclosed and that is the end of the matter is giving too much discretion to a Minister. After all, this Bill is designed to give to citizens some redress against mistakes in administrative discretions. We think it is an extraordinary contradiction to give a fairly uncontrolled discretion in this area. We therefore seek the deletion of paragraph (c). 
I move: 
Omit 'Superior Court of Australia ' (wherever occurring), substitute 'Supreme Court 
The reasons for the Opposition moving this amendment are precisely the same as those advanced in relation to clause 44. 1 detain the Committee no longer. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 260326 Clause Clause 46. 
When an appeal is instituted in the Superior Court of Australia in accordance with section 44 or a question of law is referred to that Court in accordance with section 45- 
the Tribunal shall, notwithstanding sub-section 36 (2), cause to be sent to the Court all documents that were before the Tribunal in connection with the proceeding to which the appeal or reference relates; and 
at the conclusion of the proceeding before the Superior Court of Australia in relation to the appeal or reference, the Court shall cause the documents to be returned to the Tribunal. 
If there is in force in respect of any of the documents a certificate by a Minister in accordance with sub-section 28 (2) or 36 ( 1 ) certifying that the disclosure of the contents of the document would be contrary to the public interest, the Superior Court of Australia shall, subject to sub-section (3), do all things necessary to ensure that the contents of the document are not disclosed to any person other than a member of the Court as constituted for the purposes of the proceedings. 
If- 
the certificate does not specify a reason referred to in paragraph 28 (2) (a) or (b) or 36(1) (a) or (b), as the case may be; 
a question for decision by the Superior Court of Australia is whether the contents of the document should be disclosed to the parties to the proceeding before the Tribunal in respect of which the appeal was instituted or the reference was made; and 
the Court decides that the contents of the document should be so disclosed, the Court shall permit the parties to the proceeding before the Court to inspect the document. 
-The Opposition proposes that proposed clauses 47 a, 47B and 47C, which provide for the establishment of an Administrative Review Council, should be insertedin the Bill. Reference has been made to the establishment of such a Council by Opposition speakers during the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. For the reasons canvassed during that debate, the Opposition believes that such a Council which would have an extremely beneficial role if it were established, should be established. 
-The Opposition would have sought the deletion of clause 47 had the amendments moved to clause 44 been agreed to. Obviously if no jurisdiction were to be entertained by the proposed Superior Court of Australia the provisions of clause 47 which provide for an interim jurisdiction until the establishment of the Superior Court of Australia would be redundant. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new Part IVa. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clauses: '(3A) A person summoned to appear before the Tribunal may request that he be represented by counsel or a solicitor and upon such request being made the Tribunal shall allow such person to be represented and shall hear and decide upon such submissions as may be made by such counsel or solicitor. '(3B) Evidence given by a person before the Tribunal is not admissible against him in any criminal proceedings other than proceedings for offences against this Act. '. 
Clause 40 gives to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal power to summon persons before it. The Opposition believes that any such persons summoned before the Tribunal should have the opportunity of representation by counsel or solicitor of that person's choice. We hope the justification for this amendment is self-evident and that it might commend itself to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby).  The second part of the amendment stipulates that evidence given by a person before the Tribunal is not admissible against him in any criminal proceedings, other than proceedings for offences against this Act. This safeguard is necessary. The Committee will be aware that another clause of the Bill provides that as far as possible the proceedings should not be bound by the strict rules of evidence and should not pay regard to undue technicalities. In these circumstances there is clear justification for a proviso that evidence given by the person before the Tribunal should not be admissible against that person in any criminal proceedings. Of course our amendment has the necessary safeguard that such immunity does not extend to proceedings for offences against this Act. This part of the amendment we also think is selfevident and self-explanatory. We hope it commends itself to the Attorney-General. 
I seek leave to move amendments 10, 1  1  and  12  standing in my name. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit 'a Minister', substitute 'the AttorneyGeneral'. 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit paragraph (c). 
In sub-clause (S) omit ', but does affect any rules of law relating to privilege in relation to the disclosure of information or of the contents of documents in such proceedings '. 
Similar amendments have already been moved in respect of clause 28. Both amendments 10 and 1 1 standing in my name seek deletion of clauses in the same way as did amendments 8 and 9 standing in my name. I repeat the comments that were made in respect of clause 28, that the discretion given to the Minister, whom we want in all circumstances to be the AttorneyGeneral, is too wide. We are not satisfied with paragraph (c) of sub-clause ( 1 ) which states: 
I move: 
Omit 'Superior  Court  of Australia' (wherever occurring), substitute 'Supreme Court'. 
The arguments in favour of this amendment are precisely the same as those advanced during the debate on clause 44. 1 shall take no further time. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause  47 (Temporary exercise of jurisdiction by Australian Industrial Court). 
-I suppose it is a sign of the sardonic sense of humour of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that he has scheduled the debate on these boundaries so that the proposals which are most unacceptable to the Liberal Party- that is, the proposals which involve the State of New South Wales- are kept until last. Maybe the Minister for Services and Property thought that we on this side of the House might get a little tired of the debate. I can tell the House that the Liberal Party, unequivocally and without qualification, is opposed to the proposals for redistribution in New South Wales. Let there be absolutely no doubt that this is a decision shared both in the organisation itself and in the parliamentary section of the Liberal Party in New South Wales. The Minister for Services and Property said in his speech: 
A study of the submissions by the Liberal-Country Party in all States, particularly New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria, clearly indicates that their only interest in the redistribution was self-preservation, the 'loading' of electorates and the perpetuation of electoral injustices. 
Let us put that proposition against the proposals made by the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party and the proposals made by the New South Wales division of the Liberal Party. The proposals of the Labor Party, which of course the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  was a little too embarrassed to say very much about, if applied against the figures of May 1974 would have produced in New South Wales 29 Labor seats against only 16 Opposition seats. Yet the Liberal Party submission would have produced 23 Labor seats as against 22 Opposition seats. Who is perpetuating the injustice? Who is loading the boundaries? Who is looking to their own self-interest in these proposals? The Labor Party cannot have it both ways. On the one hand we have been upbraided for being overborne by the National Country Party in respect of other States, and in respect of New South Wales the honourable member for Phillip tries to persuade my colleagues in the National Country Party that the Liberal Party is out to get them. It is true that the Liberal Party in New South Wales submitted a plan that proposed the abolition of the seats of Riverina and Hume and their replacement by the seat of Lawson. It is equally true that the Liberal Party submission on New South Wales was written with the following qualification: 
Although we realise that the matter is outside the authority of the Commissioners, our first submission is that it is undesirable to carry out a redistribution at this particular time. A national census is due in 1976, and this may well have the effect of altering the allocation of electoral divisions as between the States, resulting in the need for another redistribution for New South Wales during 1 977. 
Forty-five seats from New South Wales are held in this Parliament of which, at the present time, the Labor Party has 25 seats and the Opposition has 20 seats. Under the proposals now being debated if the 1974 figures applied the Labor Party would have 28 seats and the Opposition only 17 seats. The Labor Party majority would go from 5 to 9 seats a net gain of 4 seats. The seats of Riverina and Evans are effectively abolished. As the Minister pointed out, they will be replaced by Eastwood and Toongabbie. The real significance of these redistribution proposals is not the tip of the iceberg but the iceberg itself. 
It has already been raised in this debate on redistribution that the really important seats to examine are marginal seats. It is an examination of marginal seats, particularly in New South Wales, which is so revealing. A 3 per cent swing against the Government at the present time would cost the Government 12 seats. If these proposals are accepted a 3 per cent wing would cost the Government only 7 seats. At present the most marginal Labor seats in New South Wales are Eden Monaro, Cook, Macarthur, Barton, Evans, Phillip and St George. Let us look at them one by one and see what is to happen to them. The seat of Eden Monaro is to remain substantially the same. It has not been significantly strengthened for the Opposition, as the Minister for Services and Property carelessly pointed out during his remarks. The seat of Cook is to be slightly strengthened for the sitting member. The seat of Macarthur is up by 5.1 per cent in the Labor Party's favour. Now a 9.8 per cent swing would be required, under these proposals, to dislodge the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  The seat of Barton is to remain substantially untouched. The seat of Evans will be abolished but it is to be replaced by a rock-safe Labor seat of Toongabbie. What is to happen to Phillip? We heard much from the honourable member for Phillip during the debate tonight.  His  vote will be up by 1.2 per cent. The seat of St George is to remain substantially the same. Unfortunately, the electors of St George will not have as one of their number the Minister for Services and Property. 
Let us look at the Opposition's marginals. The seat of Paterson is to be made into a Labor seat. A swing of 4.5 per cent on the new boundaries would be required for the Opposition to hold the seat of Paterson. I have little doubt that if, by mischance these boundaries do get through, my colleague from Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  would achieve that swing of 4.5 per cent. The seat of Hume is to remain substantially the same. The seat of Riverina is to be abolished. I concede that it is to be effectively replaced by the new Liberal seat of Eastwood which, I understand, the Minister wants to call Gilmore. The seat of Parramatta, so well held in this Parliament by my colleague,  Mr Ruddock,  is converted with a stroke of a pen into a seat with a Labor majority such that he would need a swing of 6.5 per cent to hold the seat. I think that whilst the honourable member for Parramatta would achieve that, it would be a very difficult job. Then we have the interesting complex of Evans and Lowe. We have the new seat of Concord which is now proposed to be renamed Evans. The seat of Lowe is, I think, for all practical purposes a fairly safe Opposition seat, but under the new proposals the seat of Concord is  2y2  to 3 per cent weaker for the Opposition than the existing seat of Lowe. 
So the pattern emerges in New South Wales, so far as the marginal seats are concerned, in which Labor marginal seats are to be significantly strengthened and Opposition mariginal seats are, in many cases, to be significantly weakened. These are the seats that really count so far as holding power in Australia is concerned. The Labor Party knows that it is electoral history in the rural areas of Australia and that its last hope of hanging on to power is to hold the large urban areas of Australia, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. It therefore is no real coincidence that we find in the metropolitan areas a pattern that so clearly favours the Labor Party. 
To suggest that there is anything wrong with the boundaries under which the last elections were fought is complete nonsense. After all, the Government has twice won an election on the existing boundaries. At the last election, in 1974, the Labor Party won a clear majority of seats in New South Wales. It had a clear majority of votes, and I would not argue otherwise. It won 25 out of 45 seats. But that is not sufficient. Under these proposals, with the same vote- no extra votes needed- its number of seats would go from 25 to 28 and the Opposition's share would go down to 1 7 seats. What is more important, the Opposition's prospects of disturbing that allocation would be extremely small notwithstanding a reasonable swing. 
If there is one thing that is required in a redistribution of electoral boundaries it is a situation where the people of Australia, wanting a change of government, can be certain that when they cast their votes they will be able to achieve a change of government. The only way that can be achieved is by preserving equity in relation to marginal seats. It does not matter if we reduce the Liberal majority in Bradfield or Warringah by a few per cent or the Labor majority in Chifley or Grayndler by a few per cent; what really matters and what is so important about the redistribution in New South Wales is what happens to seats like Phillip and Macarthur. What has happened to those seats? What has happened on the other side to seats like Paterson? It is gone. It has been altered to give a 4.5 per cent swing against the Opposition. 
Honourable members opposite call that democracy. That is not democracy. The proposed redistribution in New South Wales has a very distinct bias in favour of the Australian Labor Party. It is totally unacceptable to the Liberal Party. The decision of the Liberal Party was arrived at independently. It coincides with the attitude of the National Country Party, but in no way is it a result of any subordination. There is a total repudiation of these electoral boundaries in New South Wales by the Liberal Party because, particularly in the metropolitan areas of Sydney, they contain a very distinct bias in favour of the Labor Party, especially in the marginal seats. 
A consistent attempt has been made during this debate by supporters of the Government to divide the members of the Liberal Party and the members of the National Country Party. Of course in electoral matters it has been a tactic of the Minister for Services and Property to hold out a few carrots to the Liberal Party and say: 'Look how generous we are. You have a nice new seat in the metropolitan area of Melbourne called Doncaster- Templestowe and a nice new seat in the metropolitan area of Sydney called Eastwood. They are nice rock-safe Liberal seats and we have abolished Wimmera in Victoria and Riverina in New South Wales. You would be mad if you did not take advantage of this. You could get two up on the National Country Party if you do'. Of course what the Minister for Services and Property does not want members of the Liberal Party to realise is that although he is dangling a couple of carrots under our noses, these redistribution proposals will make it extremely difficult for a significant swing against the Labor Party- in New South Wales particularly, and to a slightly lesser extent in Victoriato result in a change of Government. I have news for the Minister for Services and Property. 
-I have the good oil for him. He is not the only person who does his electorate sums. We do not entirely go to sleep in Ash Street and we have done our electoral sums on this. I think the Minister ought to understand that the New South Wales Liberal Party and the New South Wales members of the Parliamentary Liberal Party find the proposed redistribution totally unacceptable because it contains a distinct bias in favour of the Government. It does not deliver essential electoral justice in New South Wales. The Labor Party can coo as much as it likes. 
-And the honourable member for Phillip can screw up his nose as much as he likes. Honourable members opposite can talk about redistribution in the States. They can talk about Queensland or New South Wales however much they like. We are talking about a redistribution of electoral boundaries for this Federal Parliament. These proposals in New South Wales are as unacceptable as any proposals could be and both the Liberal Party and the National Country Party will vote en bloc to reject them. 
I seek leave of the Committee to move together amendments numbers 1 4 to 1 8 standing in my name. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1) omit 'Superior Court of Australia', substitute 'Supreme Court of a State or a Territory'. 
In sub-clause (2) omit 'Superior Court of Australia', substitute 'Supreme Court of a State or a Territory'. 
Omit sub-clause (3), substitute the following sub-clause: '(3) The Supreme Courts of the States are invested with federal jurisdiction and jurisdiction is conferred on the several courts of the Territories within the limits of their several jurisdictions whether those limits are as to locality, subject matter or otherwise .to hear and determine civil and criminal proceedings instituted in those courts under this Act. '. 
In sub-clause (5) omit 'Superior Court of Australia', substitute 'Supreme Court'. 
In sub-clause (6) omit 'Superior Court of Australia', substitute 'Supreme Court'. 
As will be apparent to the Committee all these amendments have the effect, if carried, of transferring jurisdiction to hear appeals from the decisions of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal on matters of law from the proposed Superior Court of Australia to the Supreme Court of a State or Territory. The Committee will be well aware of the attitude of the Opposition to the establishment of the Superior Court of Australia. As was pointed out during the Committee debate last night, the Superior Court of Australia does not exist. Admittedly, the Government has provided in this legislation that until such time as the Superior Court comes into existence the jurisdiction which would otherwise be exercised by the Superior Court of Australia will be exercised by the Australian Industrial Court. 
The Opposition does not believe that there should be a Superior Court of Australia. Our views on this matter are well known. In the opinion of the Opposition there are very good and substantial reasons why such a court should  not exist. During this Committee debate is not perhaps the appropriate time to dwell at any length on the differences between the Government and the Opposition on the question of the Superior Court. The Opposition proposes that the reference to the Superior Court should be eliminated. Instead we propose that jurisdiction to hear appeals from the Tribunal on questions of law should be given to the Supreme Courts of the States or Territories. For this purpose the Supreme Court of the State or Territory will be invested with the appropriate federal jurisdiction. Amendment No. 16 provides precisely for that. 
I move: 
After Part IV insert the following new Part: 'PART IVa-ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW COUNCIL '47a. There shall be an Administrative Review Council which shall consist of the  President,  the Ombudsman, the  Chairman  of the Australian Law Reform Commission, a senior administrative official and a Parliamentary draftsman. '47b. The function of the Council shall be to advise and make recommendations to the Attorney-General from time to time as to the following matters- 
those decisions made in exercise of powers conferred by enactments which are not the subject of review by a Court or other body and which in the opinion of the Council ought to be and as to the appropriate Court or other body (including the Administrative Review Tribunal) to which a right of appeal or review should be given; 
the sufficiency or otherwise of the procedures in use by tribunals engaged in the review of such decisions and the improvements which might be made in those procedures; and 
the sufficiency or otherwise of the procedures in use for the judicial review of such decisions and the improvements which might be made in those procedures; 
the constitution of tribunals engaged in the administrative review of such decisions; 
the desirability of decisions which are the subject of review by a special tribunal being made the subject of review by the Administrative Appeal Tribunal; and  (0  generally as to ways and means of improving the pro cedures for administration and to ensure the adoption of a just and equitable system of review. '47c. The Attorney-General shall provide the Council with such staff (including research staff) as the Council considers necessary for it to perform its functions. '. 
Schedule Section 26 
Pan I 
I am very pleased to hear the assurance given by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I remind him of the comments that were made during the committee debate last night about other amendments in respect of which similar assurances were given. The Opposition does regard this matter as important and it will watch the progress of events in this area when the Bill is considered in the other place. 
Proposed new Part IVA negatived. 
Clauses 48 to 57- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 57a. 

 Mr ENDERBY (CanberraAttorneyGeneral and Minister for Police and Customs)- I move: 
After clause 57, insert the following new clause: 57a. ( 1 ) A person who- 
has made, or proposes to make, an application to the - Tribunal for a review of a decision; 
is a party to a proceeding before the Tribunal instituted by another person; or 
proposes to institute a proceeding, or is a party to a proceeding instituted, before a court in respect of a matter arising under this Act, may apply to the Attorney-General for the provision of assistance under this section in respect of the proceeding. 
Where an application is made by a person under subsection ( 1 ), the Attorney-General, the Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office or a person employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office authorized by the Director in writing in that behalf may (in the case of a person employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office, subject to any restriction specified in the authorization) authorize the provision to that person of legal assistance including assistance by way of the payment of any costs and expenses reasonably incurred by or on behalf of that person in connexion with the proceeding, in accordance with the means and needs test of the Australian Legal Aid Office for the giving of legal assistance. 
I need not speak at any great length on proposed clause 57a. It deals with the provision of legal assistance- legal aid- to the people who might be using the facilities. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clause 58 agreed to. 
Reconsideration of new clause 57A. 

 Mr HOWARD (Bennelong)-Mr  Chairman,  I seek the leave of the Committee to speak to new clause 57a. 
-Will the Prime Minister table a letter dated 22 November 1974 from the Department of Environment to his Department expressing opposition to the application by Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals for a licence to export minerals from sandmining operations on Fraser Island in order that the Minister for Environment and his Department may be cleared of charges of delay and inefficiency? I add that that letter was written in response to a letter dated a day earlier, namely, 2 1 November 1974. 
-During the course of the second reading debate the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  took issue with my reference to the article written by  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras which has formed the basis of the Government's justification for the fairness of these electoral boundaries. The Minister may recall that during my earlier remarks I pointed out that the article had been written prior to the publication of the New South Wales boundaries. The Minister intervened and argued that the article had appeared in April and that the New South Wales boundaries had in fact been published in March. It is true that the New South Wales boundaries were published in March, but the article to which I referred appeared in "The Bulletin' of 22 February and it contains the paragraph that was used by the Minister, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  I think the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and other honourable members. They have referred to these remarks by  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras. 
If the honourable member for Phillip feels that I have misrepresented his position I am prepared to withdraw what I said about him. But this article certainly formed the basis of the arguments put by the Minister for Services and Property and by the Prime Minister. 
The article in question is dated 22 February and was written 2 weeks before the publication of the New South Wales boundaries. The paragraph that has been used so often states: 
In overall political terms the 1975 redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to any Australian Parliament in my lifetime . . . 
As I have said, the paragraph is contained in an article that was published about 14 days before the New South Wales boundaries were published.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate the article in Hansard. 
-The Opposition will oppose the 5 Bills which are the subject of this cognate debate. I do not think that it would have escaped the attention of any member of this House that the boundaries referred to in each of the 5 Bills are precisely the same boundaries as have been rejected by the Senate during the past 10 days. In many respects the proposal of the Government to incorporate these boundaries into legislation is a waste of the Parliament's time. The course of action that the Government is taking on this redistribution is without precedent. It flies very much in the face of the spirit of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Under the Commonwealth Electoral Act a pattern is laid down for redistributions- a pattern which was followed in respect of the redistribution proposals that were debated last week and a pattern which I suggest should have been followed by the Government in respect of the redistribution proposals that have been rejected by the Senate. 
Section 24 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act makes quite clear the course of action which the responsible Minister and the Government should follow if redistribution proposals are disapproved by either House of the Parliament. Sub-section (2) of section 24 says: 
If either House of the Parliament passes a resolution disapproving of any proposed distribution, or negatives a motion for the approval of any proposed distribution the Minister may direct the Distribution Commissioners to propose a fresh distribution of the State into Divisions. 
The section goes on to provide: 
The Distribution Commissioners shall thereupon reconsider the matter, and forthwith propose a fresh distribution - 
So the first question that Opposition members are entitled to ask in this debate is this: Why has the Government not followed the dictates of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and why is the Government scared to let the Commissioners have another look at these boundaries? 
Section 24 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act clearly gives to the Government 2 options: Either it may refer the boundaries back to the Distribution Commissioners or the redistribution can be allowed to lapse. The Government has chosen to disregard those 2 options. The Government has chosen to disregard the spirit and the intent of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. I think it is legitimate for Opposition speakers to ask why this extraordinary procedure has been adopted by the Government. The correct procedure in the event of the whole or any part of the redistribution being disallowed by a House of this Parliament was followed in 1968 when the redistribution proposals for the State of Queensland were rejected by the Senate. They were rejected by the Senate by the combined vote of the Australian Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party. On that occasion the then Liberal-Country Party Government, rather than following the extraordinary procedure that this Government has chosen to follow with respect to the current redistribution, referred the earlier proposals back to the Distribution Commissioners. Certain changes were made. The boundaries were submitted again to the Senate and were then passed. Why is that procedure not being followed on this occasion? I remind the House again that the action of the Senate in rejecting the redistribution proposals for Queensland came about as a result of an initiative from the Labor Party, supported by the Democratic Labor Party. On that occasion the Labor Party observed both the spirit and the letter of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. On this occasion the Labor Party chooses not to do so. The correct procedure was followed in 1968. The incorrect procedure is being followed at the present time. 
It is clear that the Government thinks that by putting these redistribution proposals into the form of legislation it might intimidate the Opposition into changing its mind. These 5 Bills will be opposed both here and in the Senate. If the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  imagines that by putting them into legislative form he will change the attitude of the Opposition or the attitude of either the Liberal Party or the National Country Party, he is quite wrong. Throughout the whole debate last week on the issue of redistribution the Government tried again and again to divide the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. The Minister for Services and Property is quite obsessed about the attitude of the National Country Party on the issue of redistribution. He cannot get on his feet to talk about redistributions or electoral matters without launching an unrestrained attack upon my colleagues in the National Country Party. 
I say again what I said during the debate last week on the redistribution proposals: The Liberal Party has examined these proposals independently in the various States. The Liberal Party organisations in the various States have examined the proposals. The members of the Parliamentary Liberal Party have examined these proposals. It is the combined, unanimous opinion of both the Liberal Party and the National Country Party which results in the Opposition's opposing the redistribution both here and in the Senate. Let there be absolutely no doubt that the Liberal Party in its own right is completely opposed to these proposals. They do a manifest electoral injustice to the Liberal Party, particularly in the major metropolitan centres of Australia such as Sydney and Melbourne, and they are quite unacceptable to the Liberal Party. In no way has our attitude to these electoral redistributions been dictated by the attitude of the National Country Party. 
The Minister and his colleagues failed during the debate last week to exploit any differences between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, and he need not think by putting the redistribution proposals into the form of legislation that the attitude of the Opposition Parties is going to be any different or that the attitude of the Liberal Party is going to change. Quite obviously, there has been a pattern in the Minister's approach to electoral redistribution to kid the Liberal Party into believing that the redistribution proposals were to its advantage. Of course, the Liberal Party and its various members have had a very careful look at these proposals and they all know that the proposals do great disservice to the Liberal Party .and would be extremely harmful to the Liberal Party if they were accepted. During the debate both here and in the Senate the Opposition has explained the reasons why it opposes the redistribution proposals. 
Throughout the debate the Minister for Services and Property quite rightly said that the Distribution Commissioners were men of integrity and high qualifications. I agree with that. Why then is the Minister not prepared to send the boundaries back to those Commissioners, as provided for in the Commonwealth Electoral Act? If they are persons of such great integrity, as I believe they are, why should they not be given the right to re-examine the boundaries, as intended under the Commonwealth Electoral Act? Is the Minister scared that some of the arguments that have been advanced by the Opposition during this debate might be given some heed by the Distribution Commissioners? Is he concerned that if the boundaries were referred back to the Distribution Commissioners some alterations might be made and that therefore they would not be so acceptable to the Government? Why does the Minister not refer them back to these men of admitted integrity and high qualifications? It is very easy to understand why he does not refer them back. The Government is frantic for these boundaries because it is running scared. The Government does not want the boundaries looked at again because it knows that there is an advantage for the Government in these boundaries that it might not get under another redistribution. It does not want the procedure laid down in the Commonwealth Electoral Act followed on this particular occasion because it is scared that a different result might be produced in the future. So the Government has adopted this extraordinary procedure of putting these boundaries into the form of legislation and, in an attempt to intimidate the Opposition into changing its mind, the Bills have been presented to this Parliament. 
The Opposition's objections to the new boundaries were made quite well known during the debate on the proposals last week, when the Opposition set out 3 reasons why it was not prepared to accept the boundaries. I briefly recapitulate those reasons. We regard the redistribution as being premature in the light of the pending census in 1976. Secondly, some of the legislation under which the redistribution is being carried out is still under legal challenge. Thirdly and most importantly, we believe that the boundaries fail the essential test of electoral fairness. They fail that test extremely badly. As pointed out during the debate last week, a swing of 3 per cent against the Government on the existing boundaries would cost the Government 12 seats. On the proposed boundaries, an equivalent swing would cost the Government only 7 seats. It was pointed out during the debate last week that the seats that really matter so far as the test of electoral fairness is concerned are the marginal seats. It is the marginal seats of this country that determine which Party shall govern. It is the marginal seats that must be examined most closely when one is running a test of fairness over any redistribution proposals. If one looks carefully at the impact of these redistribution proposals, particularly the proposals for the State of New South Wales, one finds that they failed very badly the test of electoral fairness. 
During the whole of this debate the Minister has sought with almost monotonous regularity to rely upon the statements of  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras in aid of his arguments in support of the proposed redistribution. On every single occasion on which he has spoken he has referred to  Mr Mackerras  ' view. I do not wish to join issue on the merits or otherwise of  Mr Mackerras  so far as electoral matters are concerned. However, I should like to point out one very salient thing. The quotation to which the Minister refers so repeatedly, was taken selectively from an article in an issue of 'The Bulletin' dated 22 February 1975, and that particular article was written before the publication by the Commissioners of their proposals for the State of New South Wales. How is it possible for any commentator of repute on this particular subject to make an overall assessment of the essential electoral fairness of these proposals without the benefit of the redistribution proposals for the largest State in Australia, without the benefit of those proposals which contain within them the most manifest defects of the whole of these redistribution proposals, is quite beyond me. I think the Minister ought to pay a little more attention to the overall context in which he so selectively quotes  Mr Mackerras. 
There is no doubt that this Government does have something of a mania for electoral change. These particular Bills, this pattern of legislation, this extraordinary procedure by the Government, are only one item in a long list of measures dealing with electoral matters which have been introduced into this Parliament since the Government took office in December 1974. We have had legislation dealing with optional preferential voting; we have had legislation dealing with simultaneous elections; we have had legislation dealing with territorial senators; we have had legislation dealing with the registration of political parties; and we have had other comprehensive proposals to amend in every conceivable manner imaginable the electoral laws of this country. So this particular act of the Government, while it is without precedent and while I think it is an extraordinary breach of the spirit and letter of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, does fit very much a pattern of legislation that the Government has pursued since it came into office. 
One is tempted to the conclusion that it is part of the policy and the strategy of this Government so far as electoral matters are concerned to tamper with the rules of the game. I think the Australian people ought to understand that what is happening today, the course of action that the Government is following today, is yet another instance of a pattern of tampering with the rules of the electoral game which has been pursued by this Government since it took office.  (Quorum formed)  That pattern of tampering with the electoral rules of the game, of which this latest move by the Government is yet another example, deserves the attention not only of this House but also of the electorate at large. After all, the present Government was elected twice- in 1972 and 1974- under the electoral laws which it is endeavouring so assiduously to change. The Opposition is not prepared to accept the proposition that the device to which the Government has now resorted properly conforms with the spirit or the intention of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The Opposition is not prepared to allow the procedure laid down in the Commonwealth Electoral Act as the one to be followed in the event of either House of Parliament rejecting redistribution proposals to be disregarded by the Government. 
The Leader of the House has made it quite clear that he regards this issue as a matter of confrontation between the Government and the Opposition. I can only repeat what the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  said during the debate on the question that the Bills be declared urgent Bills and what I said at the commencement of my remarks: The Opposition will oppose this legislation both here and in the Senate. The fact that the redistribution proposals have been put in the form of legislation does not alter in any way the fact that the proposals contained in the legislation are exactly the same as the ones that were rejected by the Senate. They contain within them the same essential electoral injustice of which Opposition speakers spoke during the previous debate. The attempts made by the Government during the course of the debate to divide the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have failed completely. In fact, the device to which the Government has now resorted has done a great deal to cement the unity of attitude between the National Country Party and the Liberal Party on this issue. If the Government imagined that by resorting to this legislative device it would open up some division between the 2 Opposition Parties, it was very much mistaken. 
We are more determined than ever that these proposals will be rejected. We are more resolved than ever that the redistribution which the Government now wishes to put through the Parliament is manifestly unfair. We are more determined than ever that when the next election comes it will be fought on the electoral boundaries on which the last election was fought. We are more certain than ever, after what the Government has done today, that it is absolutely frantic to have the boundaries which are contained in these Bills. The Government is running scared. It desperately wants these electoral boundaries. It is not prepared to refer them back to the Distribution Commissioners, as provided for in the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It is afraid that if that occurred there might be some changes that would not be to its liking. So the Opposition will vote against these 5 Bills both in this House and in the Senate. 
-I wish to indicate at this stage that having regard to the time limit that has been imposed on this debate by the action of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that it is not the intention of the Opposition to call for divisions during the Committee stage and the third reading stage of each of the 5 pieces of legislation. But I say that in no way to diminish the opposition of the Opposition to the procedure that the Government has adopted in respect of this redistribution or in fact in respect of the substance of the redistribution. Obviously a large numer of honourable members on the Opposition side who wish to make a contribution to the debate will be denied the opportunity to make a contribution. I think sensible members of this House will acknowledge that the attitude of the Opposition to this legislation is clear and can be most effectively registered by calling for divisions on the second reading stage. The Leader of the House has tried again, during his little contribution on the South Australian redistribution proposals in the Committee stage, to use the tactic that he has adopted ever since he was given the responsibility for electoral matters by his Leader after the 1972 election, that is, to create mischief and discord between the 2 Opposition Parties. I can tell the Minister again that he has failed completely in that mission, and the longer debate continues on the subject of redistribution the more obvious it must become to members of the Government that the Minister will not be able to create mischief between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. 
The question of the attitude of either of the Opposition Parties to redistribution is a matter to be determined by those 2 parties. The Liberal Party arrived at an attitude towards this redistribution after examing the proposals. That attitude has been made perfectly clear during debate on this redistribution. It was made perfectly clear by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Notwithstanding what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said, the Leader of the Opposition was the first person to state the Opposition 's attitude on electoral redistribution. The Leader of the Opposition quite sensibly sought a suspension of Standing Orders so that this House could have a cognate debate on the 5 redistribution proposals. But the Leader of the House would not agree to that. During the course of the debate on the motion to suspend Standing Orders, the Leader of the Opposition made perfectly clear the attitude of the Opposition Parties to this these redistribution proposals. So for the Prime Minister or for any member of the Government to say that the Leader of the Opposition has played no part in this debate is completely wrong. It is complete humbug. Of course it belongs to the pattern of behaviour that the Leader of the House has pursued ever since he has been in charge of electoral matters- to create discord and disunity between the 2 Opposition Parties. In plain language, that is just not on. We have arrived at an attitude towards these redistribution proposals. We have stated it again and again. 
The contribution to the debate on the first proposal was made by myself and by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)-  both of us from the Liberal Party, both of us stating a Liberal Party attitude to these redistribution proposals. It so happens that our attitude coincides with the attitude of our coalition partners. We are forming a joint opposition to these proposals. We have jointly voted against the motion for the second reading of the Bill concerning the South Australian proposals. We will jointly vote against the motion for the second reading of the Bills concerning the proposals for Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. We will jointly vote against the proposals when they go into the Senate. If the Prime Minister and the Leader of the House like to carry forward their intimidation insofar as a double dissolution is concerned we will jointly campaign against the Labor Party and we will jointly defeat it. We will jointly give to this country a government which can restore some of the sanity and some of the economic stability of which the honourable member for McPherson spoke so well during this debate. 
I think it was rather extraordinary that not only the Leader of the House but also the Prime Minister himself fell into the trap of relying on a selective quotation regarding the justice of these redistribution proposals. The Prime Minister quoted selectively from the 'Bulletin' article of  Mr Mackerras  when talking about these redistribution proposals. I again remind the House and I remind the Leader of the House in case he has in mind using that quotation in any further speech on these redistribution proposals that that article was written before the New South Wales redistribution proposals came out. 
The Leader of the House has criticised the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  for pre-empting his attitude and for making statements before the redistribution proposals came out. The main independent source on which the Government relies in this debate-  Mr Mackerras'  article- was published and written before the New South Wales proposals were even published. Those proposals cover 45 out of the 127 seats in this Parliament. They are proposals that meet with the strongest possible objection from the Opposition because it is in the proposals in respect of the State of New South Wales that the most manifest evidence of electoral imbalance is to be found. The New South Wales proposals contain the greatest distortion. The New South Wales proposals on the 1974 figures would give to the Government 28 seats against 17 seats to the Opposition. 
Assuming for the purposes of the argument that everybody voted in the same way as they did in May 1974, which I think is highly unlikely, there would be under these proposals a net gain by the Government of 4 seats. So the opinion of the outside expert- the independent expert- on which the Leader of the House relies and has relied repeatedly, and on which the Prime Minister relied during his contribution to the debate on this subject, as to the fairness of the redistribution was given without any knowledge of what was contained in the New South Wales proposals, without any knowledge that those proposals would give to the Labor Party 28 seats out of the 45 seats in New South Wales with no extra votes, and without any knowledge that the New South Wales proposals contained the greatest possible imbalance and the most manifest evidence of how unjust are these proposals. 
I suggest to the Leader of the House and to other honourable gentlemen opposite that if they are going to rely on selective quotations from articles written by outside experts they ought to check the context within which those articles were written and they ought to check the dates on which they were written. I suggest that any further reliance on that quotation from the article by  Mr Mackerras  during the context of this debate is totally irrelevant. 
The real substance of the Opposition's objections to these proposals- the objections of the Liberal Party and the objections of the National Country Party- is that they will give to the Labor Party an advantage that cannot be delivered in the ballot box. Nothing the Leader of the House can say about the attitudes of the Opposition Parties alters that fact. What we are debating here is whether the people of Australia and not the map-makers will determine who governs and whether, if there is a substantial shift of opinion at the next election against the Government, there will be a change of Government. The only way in which to achieve that state of affairs- the electoral justice to which constant tribute is paid by the Prime Minister and his Party- is to preserve equity insofar as the marginal seats are concerned, it is marginal seats that determine what parties shall be in government and not seats like Grayndler or Bradfield. 

 -Mr Speaker, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  never really gives up on the subject of redistribution. From the beginning of the debate when it started last week to the very end of the speech that he has just concluded he has sought to promote the mischievous lie that in some way the Liberal Party has - 
I withdraw that remark and I apologise to my honourable friend. He has sought to promote the mischievous distortion that in some way the Liberal Party has no heart in opposing these boundaries and that it has been dragged reluctant to the barricades on the subject of electoral redistribution. But I quote the Minister's own words in the context of his argument that this redistribution has been carried out by Distribution Commissioners over whom he has absolutely no control. He said: 
I have even given the Liberal Party seats. 
If indeed the Minister has absolutely no control over the situation, if he is the lily white administrator so far as electoral redistribution is concerned, how can he purport to give the Liberal Party any seats? The fact remains that neither the Commissioners nor the Minister for Services and Property, in his undoubted bounty, have given the Liberal Party any seats. All of the remarks made a few moments ago by the Minister for Services and Property were consistent with his absolute obsession about the National Country Party. He spent the whole of his time denigrating the Country Party. He talked about my colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O "Keefe),  he talked about the electorate of Flynn and he talked about the Country Party gerrymanders. He did not really direct his mind to what these redistribution proposals have done to the metropolitan area of Sydney where there are no Country Party seats. He did not direct his mind to the argument that has been advanced by many members of the Opposition querying why it was necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania, where none of the electorates were out of kilter. There are no Country Party seats in Tasmania; there is no prospect of there being any Country Party seats in Tasmania. If there is going to be any change, those seats will be won by the Liberal Party. 
The fact of the matter is that so obsessed is the Minister for Services and Property with the existence of the National Country Party, so smitten is the Government by the defeat that was delivered to it by the National Country Party in Queensland at the end of last year that, not being able to defeat the National Country Party at the polls, it is running scared about its prospects at the next election. The Labor Party is frantic, absolutely frantic, to have these boundaries. It is not prepared, as the Commonwealth Electoral Act requires- in fact invites- to send these boundaries back to the Commissioners. It is concerned that some of the arguments advanced in this debate by Opposition speakers might be given some weight by the Distribution Commissioners. It is not prepared to send the boundaries back; rather it is trying to enshrine these boundaries in the form of legislation. That is not acceptable to the Opposition. It is not acceptable to the Liberal Party or to the National Country Party. We have voted against these boundaries in this House. We will vote against these boundaries in the Senate. We regard the present redistribution as being essentially unnecessary. The legislation under which it has been carried out is still under legal challenge. 
But above all, the Opposition is opposed to this redistribution because it is essentially unfair according to any reasonable test of electoral justice. Nothing that Government speakers have said during this debate- be it the Minister, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  or the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  and I think his intervention is terribly relevant- disturbs the Opposition argument that what really determines whether a redistribution is fair is the impact of the redistribution on marginal seats. The honourable member for Diamond Valley knows very well that what happens to seats like the one he holds is terribly important to the government of this country. Of course it is no accident that, of all the marginal seats in Victoria only one that is held by the Labor Party has not been improved by this redistribution. That is the seat held by the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child).  Of course, that prompted the remark by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  that this is really a sexist redistribution and that in fact the only marginal seat held by the Labor Party that has not been improved is the seat held by the honourable member for Henty. But if one has regard to the whole Australian situation and considers the seats that really count in relation to whether or not the Government is going to change- if one looks at the seats of Diamond Valley, Phillip, Macarthur, Denison - 
That is right. If one looks at all these seats one will see a pattern whereby they have been strengthened for the Government. I invite honourable members to look at the marginal seats held by the Opposition, such as the seat of Paterson held by my colleague. What will happen to that seat? On the 1974 figures, it will give Labor a majority of 4.5 per cent. If one looks at the seat of Parramatta, what will happen to it? It will be turned into a seat with a Labor majority of something like 7 per cent. The seat of Lowe, which by any reasonable assessment is a fairly safe Opposition seat at the moment, will be converted into a highly marginal Opposition seat. If one is honest enough and looks at the seats that really count in a redistribution- the marginal seats- one will see again and again, moving from State to State, but particularly in the metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne, a pattern whereby Labor marginal seats have been strengthened and Opposition marginal seats have been weakened. Certainly on the surface there are a few carrots. It is all part of the pattern. The Government can say to the Liberal Party: 'There is a nice new seat of Templestowe and Doncaster in Melbourne'. The Minister wants to rename it Menzies- a fine name. There is the new Liberal seat of Eastwood, but if one really looks below the surface, below the tip of the iceberg, one finds that there is a pattern whereby Labor marginal seats have been strengthened and Opposition marginal seats have been weakened. If the Government wants a double dissolution on this issue, it is welcome to have it. We will be happy to fight the Government at any time on any issue. The Opposition Parties are jointly opposed to these redistributions. We will jointly oppose them in the Senate and, if the Government wants to make an issue of it, we will jointly campaign against it. I am certain that jointly we will defeat it. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
-The Opposition is very pleased that the Government has accepted the amendments which have been made to this Bill in another place. The Opposition believes that the amendments will have the effect of replacing the blunt instrument of the Bill as originally presented with a process of conciliation and education which we believe will do a great deal more effectively to reduce the incidence of racial discrimination in Australia than would have been the case with the Bill in its original form. There is no doubt, as the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  said, that a common ground exists between the Government and the Opposition concerning the abhorrence of racial discrimination. But it is an extremely tender area. 
Throughout the Australian community there are many people of good will, without racial prejudice, who do not believe that one achieves anything in a reduction of racial tension by passing the type of legislation that the Government originally wanted. There are in fact a great number of people of similar good will who believe that one does nothing towards reducing the incidence of racial tension by legislative coercion. As occurs in so many matters of this nature where there are genuinely held views across a spectrum, a consensus has to be achieved, and the Opposition's view is that the correct way of approaching it is to put emphasis on conciliation and education, to decriminalise the procedures originally proposed. It was for that reason, and not because of any reluctance to oppose racial discrimination, that the Opposition moved the amendments. 
The Minister referred to the experience of the Race Relations Board in the United Kingdom. The Opposition does not believe that the experience of that Board is substantially relevant to the Australian experience. The problems of racial discrimination and racial tensions in the United Kingdom are vastly different from problems of the same nature in Australia. The legislation in its amended form, which we welcome and which we support, now conforms to the Opposition's view that the best way to promote harmony between the races in Australia is through the process of conciliation, education and- one hopes, in the long term- greater understanding between the races without the existence of legislative coercion of the type originally proposed. The Opposition gladly supports the motion of the Minister. 
-The Opposition regrets that the Government does not agree to the amendment that was inserted in another place. I would like to point out again, as I think Opposition speakers pointed out during the Committee stages of this Bill, that the Opposition's amendment in no way represents a criticism of the assistance given hitherto by parliamentary counsel to members of the Opposition. We freely acknowledge the help that they have given. But what the Opposition seeks in this amendment is an important principle: There should be some statutory recognition of the rights of private members so far as the drafting of instruments and amendments in the Parliament are concerned. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in his brief comments a few moments ago suggested that this is something that should beleft on an ad hoc voluntary basis. 
-He suggests it should be left oh a flexible basis. The Government has sought to put on a formal basis a number of things which hitherto have existed on an informal ad hoc basis. This is a matter to which previous Oppositions have drawn attention. I think the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  former  Senator Murphy  and other members of the Government when they were in Opposition raised this point. It is a concession that was not made by previous governments. If that is the case- obviously it isthat is a criticism that the concession was not made, but that is not a reason for the concession not now being made. The Opposition thinks this is a time to make the concession, now when the rights of private members in Parliament are being constantly categorised as declining. There has been talk that, so far as the functioning of Parliament is concerned, it is all the Government's way and it is all the Executive 's way. 
The Opposition believes that this amendment should be put into this Bill. If we are to regularise the status of parliamentary counsel and if we are to give legislative form to practices which have existed on an informal basis during the past three or four years- I think since 1970- we have to go a step further and give some legislative recognition to the right of private members in this House to have the use of not less than two of the professional staff of parliamentary counsel. I am not saying that the use those 2 members of staff would be to the entire exclusion of other members of Parliament but private members would be given the priority. The Opposition still wants the amendment to be included and will vote against the resolution. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Mr Enderby)  agreed to: 
That  Mrs Child, Mr Cope  and the mover be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate. 
-The Opposition will not oppose this Bill. We will give the Bill a very speedy passage. As the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  outlined in his second reading speech, the Bill contains 3 main proposals concerning the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory. The first of these proposals is that in future the Supreme Court is to be constituted by a bench of not fewer than 3 judges when dealing with matters relating to the professional behaviour or conduct of a legal practitioner. Secondly, the Bill will enable the court to be constituted in a like manner where a single judge considers that the proceedings before the court are sufficient to warrant the bench being constituted of 3 judges. The final proposal in the Bill is that specific provision should be made for a change of venue in criminal proceedings before the court. 
During the course of his second reading speech the Attorney-General rightly drew attention to the fact that doubt had recently been expressed as to the power of the Supreme Court to order a change in venue in criminal proceedings before it. Whilst, as the Attorney-General acknowledged in his second reading speech, there could be grounds for believing that the inherent jurisdiction of the court was sufficient to resolve the doubt, the passage of this legislation will put that matter beyond all doubt. The amendments dealing with the first 2 matters canvassed in the Attorney-General's speech are in like nature to similar provisions dealing with the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. One of those provisions in clause 9 of the Bill will ensure that an appeal lies to the High Court against a sentence when an accused is committed for sentence to the Supreme Court and is sentenced by that court. Such an amendment is necessary following the decision of the High Court in Jackson against The Queen in 1964 when it was decided that the expression 'convicted on indictment before the Supreme Court' did not cover the situation in which a person was not arraigned before that court but was committed to the Supreme Court for sentence by a lower court. 
The changes to the Northern Territory Supreme Court Act 1961 which this Bill seeks to make are, in the view of the Opposition, necessary and desirable. They recognise the increased status of the Northern Territory Supreme Court. They remove certain areas of doubt where they previously existed, particularly in relation to the constitution of the bench of the court in providing that there shall be not less than 3 judges in dealing with matters of professional behaviour or conduct of a legal practitioner, which certainly brings the provisions relating to the Northern Territory Supreme Court into line with similar provisions concerning State courts in Australia. There disciplinary matters dealing with the behaviour of members of the legal profession are dealt with not by a single judge but by the Supreme Court sitting either as a court of appeal in respect of some States such as New South Wales or as a full court in those States in which there is not a separate court of appeal. The Opposition welcomes the legislation and will give it its full support. 
-The House is now debating the second reading of the Ombudsman Bill 1975. The Opposition gives its enthusiastic support to this legislation and commends the Government for bringing it forward. When this Bill, with a few amendments which the Opposition hopes the Government will accept and also a few amendments that the Government has indicated its intention of moving, with which there is general but not total agreement by the Opposition, passes into an Act there will then bein existence in all the Australian States, with the exception of Tasmania, and on a Federal and territorial level provision for the office of an ombudsman. It will remain for the Australian Labor Party Government of Tasmania to legislate for an ombudsman in that State. 
The word 'ombudsman', as many honourable members will know, has its origins in the legal order of decentralised German tribes. In that legal order 2 options were available for the handing out of justice. Firstly, the culprit on being convicted could be declared an outlaw and then become fair game for everybody or, secondly, a fine could be imposed on the culprit's family to be paid to the victim's family. To prevent violence between the families a neutral person was needed to collect the fine from the culprit's family and give it to the victim's family This person became the ombudsman, meaning the person or the messenger collecting the fine. 
The first legislative recognition in modern times of the concept of an ombudsman, of course, occurred in Scandinavian countries. Those countries are commonly and quite properly credited with having given birth to the modern concept of an ombudsman. The concept of an ombudsman must have appeared to those brought up according to the common law system as a strange Scandinavian concept which was unsuited to common law conditions. In fact, for many years the notion lingered that having an ombudsman was in effect denying the traditional role of parliament in the Westminster system as a place where grievances should be aired. The experience of parliamentary life in the 20th century, a recognition that the role of members of Parliament cannot be entirely devoted to the airing of grievances, although substantially they must continue to do so, and the sheer weight of administrative decision making and the sheer volume of administrative intervention in the ordinary affairs of the citizens have meant that the concept of an ombudsman, so far from being alien to the Westminster system of government and the common law system of government, can be properly grafted on to those systems of government and can aid the process of those systems. 
New Zealand was the first common law, Westminster system country to legislate for an ombudsman. It did so in 1962. The office has gradually spread throughout the common law world. The United Kingdom legislated for an ombudsman in 1967. Successive Australian States have legislated for an ombudsman, the most recent legislation being that passed by the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales. The ombudsman in that State took office in the past 2 months. 
To be effective the Ombudsman in my opinion should meet 5 criteria. Firstly, he should be independent. Secondly, he should be impartial. Thirdly, he should have a thorough understanding of government. Fourthly, he should be accessible. Fifthly, the powers that the Ombudsman should have should be powers to recommend and to publicise; they should not be powers to overrule and to change. In the Opposition's view the provisions of this legislation broadly meet those 5 criteria. The Opposition does not envy the job of the Minister responsible and the Cabinet in choosing a person to fill the role of the first Australian Ombudsman. It will be a very difficult role to fill The person who is to fill it will need to meet the 5 criteria which, in the view of the Opposition, are essential in order for the Ombudsman to be effective. 
In case it should be thought that the Opposition is a latecomer so far as enthusiasm for the establishment of the Ombudsman is concerned, I would remind honourable gentlemen that the establishment of an ombudsman was part of the joint Opposition policy for the 1974 election. Ombudsmen have been established in the various States by State Liberal governments. Perhaps above all, the process commenced in 1968 by the Gorton Government through the establishment of the Kerr Committee which ultimately led to the presentation of the interim report of the Bland Committee in 1973 is really the mainspring of this legislation. As the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  acknowledged in his second reading speech, the provisions of this BUI largely follow the recommendations of the interim report of the Bland Committee which was presented early in 1973. 
As honourable members will be aware, this legislation is very much a companion to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal which was dealt with in another place today and which I understand has been subject to a certain level of common ground so far as amendments in that place were concerned and it is likely to pass into law very soon. The Ombudsman BUI and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill deal with the same general area. Although they are complementary Bills there is a clear delineation of functions between the Ombudsman and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The role of the Ombudsman will be to investigate, to conciliate, at times to cajole, to report and publicise but not to overrule or reverse administrative decisions. That Will be the proper function of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. If the whole area of review of administrative decisions is to be effectively covered it is essential that Parliament legislate both for a review tribunal and for the office of an ombudsman. The role of investigating, conciliating and cajoling is to be reserved for the Ombudsman. 
In detailed terms this Bill does, as I mentioned earlier, effectively meet the requirements of 1975 for an effective Ombudsman. The Bill does give the Ombudsman extremely wide powers. In the process of investigating a complaint the Ombudsman has the right to obtain information from a department, to call for files, obviously to interview departmental officers and generally to obtain all information necessary for a proper investigation of the complaint submitted to him by an aggrieved citizen. It will be only in special cases that the Ombudsman will be denied access to the information required to investigate the complaint properly. Only on rare occasions will the Ombudsman be denied that access. The Bill, as it presently stands, will permit a Minister to deny the Ombudsman access to files and information only where the disclosure of such information and the furnishing of such files would, in the opinion of the Minister, prejudice the defence, security or international relations of Australia or might lead to a disclosure of Cabinet deliberations or Cabinet secrets or might preju-dice relations between the Federal Government and the State governments. 
The Bill provides that such access can be denied on the certificate of the Minister whose department, or the action of whose department, is being investigated by the Ombudsman. A similar provision originally appeared in the Administraive Appeals Tribunal Bill. Honourable members will recall that when that legislation was debated the Opposition moved an amendment to delete the proviso that the certificate should be given by the relevant Minister and to provide that the certificate should be given by the Attorney-General. In the Opposition's view the same procedure should be followed with the Ombudsman Bill and it is our intention during the Committee stage to move an amendment to that effect. No doubt the Attorney-General will again blush at the ringing vote of confidence that we have in his discretion in these matters. Under the Bill as it stands a Minister, the action of whose department is under investigation, has the authority to decide whether or not the matter under investigation falls within any of the excluding criteria of the Bill. The Opposition takes the view that it would be far better so far as the justice of the situation is concerned, for the final decision as to whether or not the matter involved fell within those excluding criteria to be given to the Attorney-General who is the principal legal adviser of the Government, the principal law officer of the Crown. 
I know it may be argued that in practical terms this arrangement might present problems, that it is unreal to think that the Attorney-General would perhaps rely other than on the advice of his ministerial colleagues. That may well be true in certain cases, but the principle nonetheless remains that if the action of a particular department is under investigation, a Minister who potentially might be embarrassed by the processes of that investigation should not have the right in his sole discretion to decide that the facts of the matter fall within the excluding criteria and thereby terminate the process of investigation commenced by the Ombudsman. So the Opposition will most certainly persist with its amendment and we hope that the Government will give consideration to its acceptance during the Committee stage. 
The passage of this Bill will not, in the Opposition's view, diminish the historic role of Parliament as a place where grievances should be aired. Rather, that role will be enhanced by the Bill. Under the terms of the legislation the Ombudsman is empowered, after investigation of a complaint, if he feels that a decision of a department or an officer of a department should be reversed or should be mitigated in some way, to so advise the department. If he feels that the department has not paid proper attention to the advice given to it he may inform the Prime Minister of the results of his investigation and he may also inform the Parliament. The final proviso that he may also inform the Parliament in respect of specific investigations carried out ultimately means that if any further action is to be taken it is a matter for Parliament to decide. Far from the establishment of the office of Ombudsman taking the grievances of individual citizens out of the concern of Parliament. This Bill will create a situation where outstanding instances of citizens having suffered from administrative errors will be brought to the attention of the Government. In addition to the power of the Ombudsman to report to Parliament in respect of specific investigations there is provision in the legislation for an annual report to be furnished to Parliament. This is a most valuable proviso in the legislation. It will mean that the activities of this person, who I think all honourable members will admit will be given enormous privileges and powers, will come under consideration. While it is true that specifically the ombudsman has no power to change a decision, the mere fact that one man, given the independence and the statutory protection of a special Act of Parliament, will be given power to go behind the exterior of government to investigate complaints and to talk to Ministers and to departmental heads, indicates that he will be a very significant person in the Administrative processes of our nation. 
Obviously, Parliament is the body to which that person should report. The whole concept of an effective ombudsman would be negated if his report were to go to the Executive. The whole purpose of there being some impartial independent person to investigate the administrative activities of government would be negated if the ultimate recipient of the ombudsman's investigation is not to be the Parliament. During the course of the Opposition's consideration of this legislation very careful attention was given to the question of whether an ombudsman would be given power to investigate decisions of Ministers. This, of course, is an extremely complex area. It is an area that the Opposition believes should be the subject of continual review. Certainly for the time being the Opposition accepts the view of the Government that certain acts of certain people should not be the subject of investigation by an ombudsman, and it certainly agrees with the conclusions reached by the Government that one category of persons which should not be subject to such investigations is Ministers of the Crown. 
During the course of the debate in this House on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill, many speakers drew attention to the historic nature of that legislation so far as the administrative processes of the government of this country were concerned. When that Bill, in whatever final form it may be when it emerges from this Parliament, and the Bill we are presently debating both pass into law, this country will have an extremely modern and comprehensive legislative framework for dealing with persons who are unhappy about the way in which they are treated by government. Here we are dealing with an area that touches everybody in the country. We spend a great deal of time in this Parliament arguing and talking about the provisions of legislation which may affect only a small number of people. We have just had a lengthy debate about tariffs. That is a very important issue but it deals in the main with a limited number of people. But the area that this sort of legislation covers and that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal covers, embraces everybody in the community. 
It is not necessary for any honourable member to remind the House that the ordinary citizen day by day is confronted with administrative decisions. The ordinary citizen day by day is the recipient of the exercise of adminstrative discretion. As a result in 1975 with such a complex system of government and such an increasing existence of administrative . decisions, departmental officials and the like intruding into our everyday lives, it is essential that we have an effective framework to deal with them. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal will provide such a framework where a person wishes a formal review to be undertaken of an administrative decision. But it is necessary in order to complement that procedure to have a procedure whereby on an informal, ad hoc basis it will be possible for the ordinary citizen to have his complaint or irritation at an adminstrative decision investigated. The Ombudsman Bill will provide that advice. 
The Opposition welcomes the legislation. We pay tribute to those persons who from 1968 onwards were responsible for the various reports which finally produced this legislation and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal legislation. Those documents- the report of the Kerr Committee and the 2 reports of the Bland Committee and also the companion report prepared by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  on prerogative writs- collectively constitute one of the best appraisals of the whole area of reviewing administrative decisions that can be found anywhere in the common law world. 
I move: 
After clause 7 insert the following new clause: '(7a) The Ombudsman may conduct an investigation in respect of an action taken before the coming into operation of this Act if in all the circumstances the Ombudsman considers it proper to do so. '. 
The purpose of this amendment is, I think, selfevident. It aims at a situation in which the Ombudsman may conduct an investigation in respect of some event or action which occurred or was taken before the Act came into operation. If in all the circumstances the Ombudsman considers it proper, that course of action may be taken. I do hot think honourable members would need any explanation from me of the circumstances in which this might be appropriate. It is self-apparent. Of course, the fact that we have brought in the Ombudsman Bill means that there is a wide area in which administrative discretions ought to be the subject of investigation. Cases are occurring every day, and we think that the scope of operation of the Ombudsman should be as wide as possible. 
-The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  was kind enough to supply to me some explanatory notes regarding these amendments. The Opposition agrees with the Government's amendments to the definition of 'prescribed authority' contained in clause 3. As the Attorney-General's explanatory memorandum points out, the definition as it previously stood in the Bill did not distinguish sufficiently between the holders of statutory offices, such as the Commissioner of Taxation with whom the ombudsman ought to deal directly, and the holders of statutory offices such as the Commissioner of Patents, who are officers of a department and in relation to whom the ombudsman should deal with the Permanent Head of the relevant department. 
Further on in the explanatory notes the Attorney-General drew attention to the position of the Australian National University. The University was established under an Act of this Par.liament. The Act which established the university also created a series of bodies associated with the operation of the universities, such as the Institute of Advanced Studies, the School of General Studies and so forth. Obviously a definition of 'prescribed authority' should be sufficiently broad and precise so that a reference to an appeal under the Act, which establishes a variety of bodies, can be taken to include appeals in respect of decisions of any of the individual bodies which have been established under the Act. The effect of the amendment is that unless the regulations provide otherwise it shall be assumed that a reference to the bodies established under the Act shall mean all of the bodies established under the Act, such as, in the case of the Australian National University, the bodies that I have mentioned. It is a very desirable amendment and the Opposition welcomes it as it will do a great deal to clarify the Bill. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
The Ombudsman is not authorized to investigate- 
action taken by a Minister; 
action taken by a Justice or Judge of a court established by a law of Australia; 
action taken by a magistrate or coroner for the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory; 
action taken by any body or person with respect to persons employed in the Australian Public Service, the Public Service of the Northern Territory or the service of a prescribed authority, being action taken in relation to that employment, including action taken with respect to the promotion, termination of appointment or discipline of a person so employed or the payment of remuneration to such a person; 
action that the Defence Force Ombudsman is authorized to investigate; or  (0  action taken by a Department or by a prescribed authority with respect to the appointment of a person to an office established by or under an enactment, not being an office in the Australian Public Service or an office in the Service of a prescribed authority. 
Paragraph (2) (d) does not prevent the Ombudsman from investigating action taken by a member of a Police Force referred to in sub-section 3 (8), or by any other person, with respect to a complaint made to a member of that Police Force concerning action taken by another member of that Police Force. 
Where, at any time during an investigation under this Act into action taken by a Department or prescribed authority, the Ombudsman becomes of the opinion- 
that the action was taken in the course of giving effect to a decision of the Cabinet, of a Committee of the Cabinet or of a Minister; or 
that the action was taken in the course of giving effect to a decision of the Administrator in Council of the Northern Territory, and that the Department or prescribed authority did not act improperly in the course of giving effect to that decision, the Ombudsman shall not investigate the action further. 
-The Opposition does have some difficulty with this amendment. We appreciate that the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that any person who is detained in custody is entitled, notwithstanding the fact that he is detained in custody, to have access to the Ombudsman. For that purpose he is to be provided with facilities for preparing a complaint under this Act and for enclosing the complaint in a sealed envelope to ensure that the envelope is sent to the Ombudsman. Provision is made in the amendment for penalties if any person who has the custody of the person making the complaint does not ensure that the envelope is delivered. On first reaction that is a very reasonable amendment. The problem that the Opposition has is that in no way does the amendment categorise the circumstances in which a person might be taken into custody. It raises in the Opposition's mind the problem of a possible conflict with State laws so far as they relate to the conditions under which people shall be held in custody. 
Honourable members will be aware that matters dealing with the detention of persons in respect of the States is a matter entirely for the States. It may well be that present regulations in the various States provide that in certain circumstances correspondence shall not be sent from a person in custody to a person outside the gaol or other institution in which that person may be held, without that mail being inspected by a prison or other official. I hope that perhaps in the course of any future review of this legislation the Government will take into account the point which is raised by the Opposition. It is not raised frivolously; it is an important point. Whilst the Opposition will not oppose the main principle which is embodied in this amendment, that is, to ensure that a person in custody is not denied access to the Ombudsman, the Opposition does voice a concern as to the impact it may have so far as it may conflict with State laws regulating the conditions on which persons are detained in  custody. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Reconsideration of Clause 5. 

In sub-clause (3) omit 'a Minister', substitute 'the AttorneyGeneral'. 
This amendment was the subject of discussion during the second reading stage. A similar amendment was moved during the debate on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill. The Opposition feels that the excluding criteria in clause 9 are so important, that the discretion available to the Minister is so important and that the circumstances in which a Minister may not wish an investigation to proceed could potentially be so important that the discretion should not rest with the Minister; that the Minister should not, so to speak, be a judge in his own case. We feel that the proper person to make the decision as to whether the circumstances fit the excluding criteria is the principal law officer of the Government, the Attorney-General. I appreciate that this could, in many circumstances, place the Attorney-General in a very difficult situation. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-When the House rose for dinner I had moved amendment No. 2 standing in my name. The purpose of this amendment was referred to during the second reading debate, that is, to give to the Attorney-General the sole authority to determine whether or not the excluding criteria of clause 9 operate in respect of the circumstances of a particular matter. For the reasons which I think have been fairly fully canvassed during the second reading debate, the Opposition believes that this is a proper amendment. It will pay proper regard to the concept of an ombudsman being able to carry out an untrammelled investigation in respect of a complaint lodged with him and will remove the possibility of a Minister who may not welcome an investigation of a particular complaint being able to abuse the discretion which is conferred on the Minister by the existing provisions of clause 9 of the Bill. I hope the suggestion of the Opposition meets a favourable response from the Government. 
-The Opposition will not oppose the amendments moved by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  The Minister will be aware that amendment No. 3 circulated in my name sought the deletion completely of paragraph (b) of sub-clause (3) of clause 9. We were concerned that the exclusion contained in that paragraph would have the effect of taking away from examination by the ombudsman a great number of acts carried out by State and Federal Government officials, which arise out of arrangements which had been made between the Australian Government and the government of a State. The Committee will be aware that the network or arrangements that exist between State governments and the Federal Government is such that is would be very easy to conceive of circumstances whereby it could be alleged that any complaint against something done by a State official could be said to prejudice relations between the Australian Government and the government of a State. The Opposition therefore originally intended to delete paragraph (b) of sub-clause (3) of clause 9 completely. 
I turn to the amendment moved by the Attorney-General additional to the amendments originally circulated by him. So that the Committee may understand this aspect, I think that I ought to read it. The amendment states:  . . . by reason that it would involve the disclosure of communications between a Minister - 
That is a Minister of the Australian Government:  . . . and a Minister of a State, being a disclosure that would prejudice relations between the Australian Government and the Government of a State. 
It is quite apparent from that that the original ambit of paragraph (b) has been greatly restricted. If that amendment is accepted by the Committee, the only matters which can be excluded are those connected with communications between Ministers of the 2 governments, with the further condition that disclosure of that communication would prejudice relations. The Opposition compliments the Attorney-General on producing an extremely sensible compromise. I think that my honourable friend has recognised the point that we were making. The compromise that has been produced by the Attorney-General is, if I may say so, very intelligent. It meets with the full approval of the Opposition. 
Progress reported. 
-The Opposition will not agree to the motion moved by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  The Government and the Minister will be aware of the reasons which have been given by the Opposition for the amendments which were made when this Bill came before the Senate. The Opposition remains determined that the stand it has taken on this Bill is a responsible stand having regard to the economic circumstances of this country. In no sense has the Opposition taken the decision that it took on this Bill without proper regard to the need to preserve equity between superannuation benefits received by employees in the public sector and like benefits received by those in the private sector. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who led for the Opposition when this Bill was first before the House, canvassed in great detail the consequences of this scheme in the present economic circumstances of this country. 
The amendments that have been inserted by the Senate are responsible amendments. I remind the Committee that they have been so described by  Senator Hall  from South Australia who does not always agree with the stand taken by the Opposition either in this place or another place. They are amendments which I think will be accepted by the great majority of the Aus.tralian people as appropriate to the present economic circumstances in which we find ourselves. The Minister was not concerned in his speech to describe the nature of the amendments, but I remind the House that the amendments that have been made by the Senate have a threefold effect. Firstly, they substitute the retiring age of 65 years for the retiring age of 60 years, as originally proposed in the legislation. Secondly, they limit the application of the consumer price index provisions of the Bill to the Government funded portion of benefits to be received under the legislation. Thirdly, they eliminate the provision which originally existed in the Bill that where an eligible employee had served more than 30 years he would be entitled to an additional one-half of 1 per cent for each additional year of service beyond 30 years up to a maximum of 40 years. The Opposition does not believe that these amendments leave any present member of the existing superannuation scheme at any disadvantage in relation to the position that he now enjoys. 
I remind the Committee and those who are interested in this legislation that the Opposition strongly supports, as we have said on earlier occasions in this House and in the Senate, the significant advances which have been made by this legislation. The Opposition totally agrees with the proposition put by the Government that the existing scheme has very considerable defects, one being the size of the contributions which are required to be paid by members of the scheme in their later years of service. The Opposition believes that the Bill will remove a great number of these deficiencies in the existing scheme. The maximum compulsory contribution will be 5 per cent of salary. There will be the option of contributing an additional 5 per cent. The provisions relating to all the anomalies which the Bill seeks to remove from the present scheme remain untouched. Perhaps it is a pity that so much of the debate on this Bill has centred on the alterations which have been proposed by the Opposition because the essential reforms and the essential thrust of the Bill remain unaltered by the amendments made by the Opposition. 
The amendments show a responsible reaction by the Opposition to wage justice between the public and private sectors. They show a responsible reaction by the Opposition to the paramount duty of any Australian Government at present to pay regard to our economic circumstances. Nothing that can be said or that has been said by the Government in respect of the action of the Opposition in regard to this Bill can alter the fact that, on the question of responsible reaction to this piece of legislation, it is the Opposition which has provided the responsible reaction, both here and in the other place. In the other place it secured the support of a  Senator who  is not renowned for his support of the Opposition. So the Opposition greatly regrets that the Government has adopted an attitude which could prejudice the coming into operation of these provisions on 1 July. I do not think it should escape the attention of the Committee that if this scheme does not come into operation on 1 July it will be because of the action taken by the Government. 
The Government will be responsible for the scheme not coming into operation on 1 July. I think that the attitude it has taken is essentially a negative and a destructive attitude in the face of the wholly responsible and wholly consistent amendments made to the Bill. The Government has adopted an irresponsible attitude; it has adopted an attitude of confrontation. Members of the Government Party talked at great length about their commitment to the essential reforms in this legislation but the essential reforms have been untouched by the Opposition's amendments. It is the action of the Whitlam Government which will prevent these reforms coming into operation on 1 July. This Bill was introduced in an atmosphere where both Government and Opposition agreed that there were anomalies in the existing superannuation scheme. The essential anomalies of this scheme have been removed by the Bill and their removal has not in any way been opposed or disturbed by the Opposition's amendments which we believe are a responsible reaction to the situation. 
What is the reaction of the Government? It is to embark on a course of action which could prejudice the coming into operation of this scheme on 1 July. The Government knows this and I think all members of the community who are interested in this legislation also ought to know it If this scheme does not come into operation on 1 July it will not be the fault of the Opposition. We have facilitated debate on this legislation. We have made responsible amendments and if it does not come into operation on 1 July it will be on the head of the Government of which the Attorney-General and honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby)  is a member. It will be on the head of all other members of the Governmrent Party who have sponsored this reaction to the Opposition's very responsible amendments. I hope that those who take a great interest in this matter will understand that it is the Government's behaviour which could prejudice this scheme coming into operation on 1 July. 
-Might I have the leave of the Committee to mention one matter which perhaps ought to have been more appropriately mentioned during debate on the earlier clauses and that is the question of the Australian Industrial Court. The Committee will recall that - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  The honourable member is seeking leave to deal with this point. Is leave granted? 
-The contribution that I make to this debate will be short. In view of the aspersions cast by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  on the motives of the Opposition in relation to this matter I think it is only proper that I should say 2 things. The Opposition has not approached this matter in a political sense, in the sense of solely being concerned with currying political favour. If the Opposition had approached it in that manner the very simple, expeditious, easy option would have been to adopt the Government's scheme in toto. 
The Opposition realises that there has been criticism of its stand. I, along with other members of the Opposition, have received submissions which, I might say, have been in the main very courteously and helpfully put by leaders of the Public Service unions throughout Australia. We have listened to their points of view and can understand their interest in the matter. The fact of the matter is that the Opposition has decided that, having regard to all of the implications for the Australian economy at the present time, the stand it has taken is a reasonable one. In no way does it cut across the very many reforms which are contained in the 2 Bills which were debated during the last session. In no way does the Opposition's stand represent a punitive attitude towards Commonwealth public servants. The Opposition believes that it does have a responsibility to all sectors of the Australian community. It believes that it has an obligation not only to those employed in the public sector but also to those employed in the private sector. 
If there is one argument in the whole debate on this superannuation scheme that has not been answered by the Government and that in my belief has not been effectively answered by the leaders of the Public Service unions in Australia it is the argument that if the benefits provided under this scheme were to be matched by the private sector an intolerable financial burden, particularly in the light of present economic difficulties, would be placed upon the private sector. In all responsibility to the Australian people we cannot put aside consideration of the impact of this scheme upon the private sector. It may suit the convenience of the Government to do so but it does not suit the convenience of the Opposition. We believe that the impact of this scheme upon the private sector is a relevant consideration. That is one of the matters that weighed so heavily upon the Opposition in formulating its attitude. 
I want to make one other comment about the remarks of the Attorney-General. He talked about the passage of a resolution at the Canberra Branch of the Liberal Party of Australia. I know that a resolution was passed in relation to this matter and that it was carried by a vote of something like 22 to 18, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  but I really do not think that that sort of selective choosing of the actions of a particular branch of the Party really contributes very much to the debate. I could just as easily point out- I know it to be true- that some of the honourable members who sit opposite are still privately opposed to this scheme and that so are some blue collar unions. I do not think that that really contributes a great deal to the debate. It is inevitable in any matter of some controversy that there is going to be a division of opinion inside political parties, but the overwhelming consensus within the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia is that whilst we warmly support the improvements contained in this scheme and the elimination of the many anomalies in it we believe that in certain defined areas it goes too far, having regard to the present economic circumstances. We believe that an intolerable financial burden would be placed upon the private sector if it tried to match the scheme. Given the newfound concern which has been expressed by some supporters of the Government towards the economic health of the private sector we are frankly surprised that they have not paid more regard to this aspect of the argument. 
Question put: 
That the House insists on disagreeing to the amendments insisted upon by the Senate. 
-The Opposition regrets that the Government will not accept the amendment which was inserted during the Senate debate on this Parliamentary Counsel Bill 1975. The argument advanced by the Opposition is, in our belief, a very strong argument. Having regard to the remarks that were made on an earlier occasion today regarding the dignity of the procedures of this House, the Opposition wonders whether some of the things said by Government members were completely sincere. One of the important things that has to be achieved if the procedures of this House are to become more effective and if the Executive is not to have a completely untrammelled run- be it an Executive of the present Government's political persuasion or an Executive at some time in the not too different future of the opposite persuasionthen more effective parliamentary facilities must be provided for private members. I repeat what was said in the earlier debates on this measure: The Opposition is in no way critical of the efforts of Parliamentary Counsel to assist the Opposition at present. But as the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  rightly pointed out, the legislative burden at the present time is such that it is just not possible for the type of assistance that ought to be provided to be provided. In the Opposition's view, that is all the more reason for the insertion of the amendment that was placed in this Bill during the Senate debate. 
The Attorney-General spent some time talking about the massive legislative program that the Government had undertaken. Whilst that is acknowledged, I think that many honourable members on this side of the House and people throughout the Australian community, might well think that had there been a little less legislation from this Government in many areas and a little more responsible government, we would all be a great deal better off. So it is hardly a very good excuse for the attitude that the Government is taking towards our amendment just to refer to the sheer quantity of legislation that has been passed during the lifetime of this Government. The Opposition regrets that the Government will not agree to the Senate amendment. The Opposition does not intend to change its attitude in this place on the Senate's amendment and will accordingly vote against the motion moved by the Attorney-General. 
Question put- 
That the House insists on disagreeing to the amendment insisted on by the Senate. 
-The Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill has already been the subject of a very lengthy debate in the House and also in the Senate. The Opposition is pleased to say that it will support the amendments now moved by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  Most of them, as the AttorneyGeneral has pointed out, are consequential upon amendments inserted during the Senate debate. The Attorney-General acknowledged that, in substance, a number of the amendments which he has just moved arose from amendments inserted by the Opposition. I am very happy to say that this Bill will, because of this debate, pass into law very soon and will bring to a legislative conclusion a process which has been going on for a long time in Australia to provide a framework for appeals against the exercise of administrative discretion. 
While, during the course of the debate, there were some substantial disagreements between the Government and the Opposition regarding the original form of the Government's Bill, I think that all honourable members will acknowledge that there has been a degree of unanimity on both sides of the House regarding the desirability of establishing an effective tribunal to review administrative decisions. In this regard the Opposition is pleased to support the amendments which have been moved by the AttorneyGeneral. We believe that they will improve the Bill. We believe in particular that it is desirable that the principal law officer of the Crown, the Attorney-General, have the responsibility of deciding whether there should issue a certificate, which in effect excludes from the operation of the Tribunal certain acts of departments or Ministers. We believe that discretion should be with the Attorney-General and not with the individual Minister concerned. That point is, of course, the substance of amendments 1, 2 and 3. 
The other amendments deal with the question of jurisdiction. The House will recall that, at the time the Bill was debated during the second reading and Committee stages, the Opposition was critical of the fact that no jurisdiction had been conferred upon the Tribunal, that having come so far the Government did not go the step further and confer upon the Tribunal some effective jurisdiction, that we were given a framework without any substance or a skeleton without any flesh, as I think the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  described it. Whilst the amendments now proposed by the AttorneyGeneral perhaps fall short of those originally devised by the Opposition, we are nonetheless pleased to accept them so that the Tribunal once established by this Bill when it becomes an Act will not only have an excellent framework but it will also have some substantial jurisdiction. The Opposition is pleased to support the amendments moved by the Attorney-General. 
Amendments agreed to. 
I am extremely sorry that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  adopted the line of argument that he did because I do not think it reflected any credit on him or upon this debate. It seems very strange to me and, I am sure, to all members of the Opposition that a government that is so intent on breaking what the Attorney-General's predecessor described as 'those vestigial legal links between Australia and the United Kingdom' should resort to one of the most vestigial of all those links to bring about the purposes contained in this Bill. I am referring to the Statute of Westminster. 
During his remarks the Attorney-General, who became more heated about the subject as he went along, called in question the Opposition's credit. He said that we are not really genuine in saying that we want to abolish appeals from the courts in Australia to the Privy Council. Honourable members will know that at the time this Bill was introduced there was a companion Bill to abolish the final right of appeal from the High Court of Australia to the Privy Council. Was the Opposition seen to be opposing.that Bill? It was not. The Attorney-General knows that; the Government knows that. We supported that Bill and our support was consistent with our attitude that the final court of appeal should be the High Court of Australia. We supported that Bill because the correct course of action was being followed. On that occasion we were not being asked to embark upon the embarrassing exercise of reviving a 1 93 1 statute. 
It never ceases to amaze me that the leader of this.Government, who is so intent upon breaking what he calls the vestigial links that in government offices throughout Australia he hangs his own portrait in place of the portrait of the sovereign of this country, is prepared when it comes to his own political purposes to use a 1 93 1 statute of the Imperial Parliament- a statute which by its very description, by the history which led up to it and by the history which followed it - 
Speaking to the point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member for Bennelong may proceed, but I ask him to respect the terms of the Bill before the House. 
With respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is impossible to talk intelligently about this Bill without referring to the Statute of Westminster because that is the very legal device that the Government is using to abolish appeals from Australian courts to the Privy Council. 
I move: 
Omit 'determined by the Governor-General', substitute prescribed'. 
I have already explained the basis of this amendment to the Committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 22 agreed to. 
Clause 23. 
The Deputy Ombudsman Tor the Australian Capital Territory has all the powers, and may exercise all the functions, of the Australian Ombudsman in relation to action taken by a Department or by a prescribed authority in the Australian Capital Territory, except the power to report to the Parliament under section 1 7. 
The Deputy Ombudsman for the Northern Territory has all the powers, and may exercise all the functions, of the Australian Ombudsman in relation to action taken by a Department or by a prescribed authority in the Northern Territory, except the power to report to the Parliament under section 17 and the power to report to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory under sub-section 18(5). 
Nothing in this section prevents the exercise of a power or the performance of a function by the Australian Ombudsman. 
-The Opposition accepts the compromise proposed by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I think it is obviously sensible to have this clause on the same basis as clause 9. The Opposition is agreeable to that course being followed. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 36 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 36a. 
-With the concurrence of the Committee, I will move together the 2 amendments that I propose to clause 21. 1 move: 
At the end of sub-clause ( 1 ) add: "but shall not be appointed until each House of the Parliament has approved of the proposed appointment". 
In sub-clause (2) omit "determined by the GovernorGeneral", substitute "prescribed". 
I understand from the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that the Government has no objection to my second amendment which is to sub-clause (2) and which seeks to omit the words 'determined by the Governor-General' and substitute the word 'prescribed'. My first amendment which seeks to add a proviso at the end of subclause ( 1 ) of clause 2 1 as it is presently drafted, is to the effect that the appointment of the ombudsman shall not be effective until such time as both Houses of the Parliament have approved the appointment. I appreciate the amendment might be met with the objection that it is normally the responsibility of the Executive to appoint persons to positions of this nature, and that argument I accept in most cases. The ombudsman does have a special role in relation to this Parliament. The ombudsman is obliged to report to this Parliament. The ombudsman in many respects is answerable to this Parliament. The establishment of the office of the ombudsman is meant in many ways to complement the role of this Parliament. In that respect, the appointment of the ombudsman can be distinguished from the appointment of other persons holding equally responsible positions. If indeed, the Parliament after the appointment of an ombudsman is to continue to have a creative interest in the activities of the ombudsman, I think that process will be aided if Parliament has the authority to vet the appointment of the ombudsman made and determined by the Executive. The purpose of having an Administrative Appeals Tribunal and an ombudsman is to emphasise that discretions of the Government are open to review. What better way to confirm that process than to give to the Parliament of the country a role in the appointment of the person who is to fill the position of ombudsman. I hope that the Government might see its way clear to accept that amendment. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-clause (1). 
This amendment seeks to delete from clause 33 the whole of sub-clause (1). I understand that the Government may be receptive to this amendment. I think the purpose of the amendment, on reading sub-clause (1), is self explanatory. The Opposition takes the view that the protection afforded to the Ombudsman or persons acting under the direction of the Ombudsman in subclause (2) is sufficient and that the correct protection that should be given in the circumstances is  amply contained and that there is in effect no reason why the type of protection which was contemplated in sub-clause (1) should be afforded and that that sub-clause should be deleted. 
-The Opposition will not oppose the insertion of this clause. We do enter a caution that perhaps in the light of experience in the operation of the Act it may well be found that the ambit of this new clause is too wide and that some persons may unreasonably suffer as the result of the making of malicious, frivolous or careless complaints. Whilst I accept the proposition of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  that it is necessary to have protection of this kind in the Act and that the original clause 9 (6) was not the appropriate way of doing it, we do see some potential dangers in the wording of the new clause. Whilst we will not oppose the insertion of the proposed new clause we hope this particular matter will be kept under very careful review and that the appropriate person might in the future amend it if any damage is done. 
-I have only a few remarks to make at this second reading stage. They relate mainly to the reasons which prompted the Government to introduce this measure, or rather the lack of explanation of the reasons why this measure was introduced. The second reading speech of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  was conspicuous for the omission of any explanation as to precisely why this measure should be introduced. The Opposition is ready to accept that if there are reasons for measures of this nature the Bill certainly should be introduced. The Opposition has absolutely no intention of hindering the passage of the Bill in that context, nor indeed does it in any way oppose the Government's remedying what it apparently regards as an unsatisfactory situation. I hope that during the course of his remarks on this debate the Attorney-General will explain the reasons why the Bill was brought forward. 
I understand that  Senator Greenwood,  the Opposition's spokesman on matters relating to the Attorney-General's responsibilities, has written to the Attorney-General on a number of occasions endeavouring to obtain some information as to the reasons for the introduction of this measure.  Senator Greenwood  requested that information of the Attorney-General to enable the Opposition to make a responsible and considered assessment of the Bill so that it could make up its mind as to what attitude it would take. So far, the Attorney-General's response has been courteous but unhelpful. I hope that during the course of this debate we may be able to find out precisely why the Government has brought in this measure. 
I would like to . commend to the House the remarks of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  regarding matters disclosed in the interim report tabled recently by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. Matters involved in the Royal Commission into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions that  Mr Justice  Sweeney is presently conducting have prompted the Opposition to move an amendment during the Committee stage of the debate. The amendment has been circulated in my name. I again ask that the AttorneyGeneral explain to the House the reasons behind this legislation and, in particular, why in an area which is normally covered by the crimes Acts of the various States he has seen fit to introduce measures which are essentially amendments to the ordinary criminal law. 
-I move: 
Add the following new clause: 
The Crimes Act 1914-1973 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following section: "92. Any person who being an officer member or employee of an organization registered pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1 975 by menaces, threat or intimidation of any kind to whomsoever directed compels or induces an employee, employer or any organization so registered (or any member or servant thereof) to pay any money or deliver any property to himself, to any organization or to any other person shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for 7 years. ". '. 
The purpose of this amendment is to insert a new clause 4 in the Bill to amend the Crimes Act further by adding a new section 92 to the Crimes Act. 
Any amendment may be moved to any part of the Bill, provided that same be within the title or relevant to the subjectmatter of the Bill, and be otherwise in conformity with the standing orders of the House. 
If one looks at the Bill one will find it is a Bill to amend the Crimes Act for the purposes of the protection of the property of certain organisations. It is for the protection of the property of the unions in this particular case. It is pursuant to that title that the amendment to add proposed new clause 4, which would insert proposed new section 92 into the Crimes Act, is moved. That, of course, will make it a crime for a person to, in effect, steal, take from or convert property belonging to an association- to take from a union. The title of the Bill is to achieve the protection of the property of unions and to make it a crime for people to steal from unions. That is putting it as simply as I can. The amendment would have to be consistent with that title and those purposes. 
If one looks at the amendment we find that it has nothing to do with protecting the property of certain organisations. Neither does it have anything to do with stealing from those organisations. What is does is seek to create quite a different kind of offence. It seeks to make it an offence- and it may well be proper that such an offence should be proscribed under our law- by menaces, threat or mtimidation of any kind to whomsoever directed, to compel people of other groups- not the associations covered by this Bill- to give money to the associations. In other words, the Opposition is seeking to make it an offence to enrich unions, not to steal from unions. That is not consistent with the title. It is not consistent with the purpose of the Bill. 
I rise to speak to the point of order. The purpose of the amendment is to deal with other categories of behaviour by officers, members or employees of organisations registered pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Bill as it now stands deals with certain categories of behaviour. Those are covered in clause 3 of the Bill. It outlaws behaviour of the type specified in clause 3 by officials, members or employees of particular organisations. The purpose of the Opposition's amendment is to extend the ambit of the Bill and to deal with another aspect of the behaviour of those officers, members or employees. 
I would ask you,  Mr Chairman,  in ruling on the point of order taken by the AttorneyGeneral, to bear in mind that the Bill attempts to deal with the behaviour of certain categories of people and the Opposition's amendment deals with the behaviour of the same categories of people. Therefore, I would submit, that the amendment is clearly within the terms of standing order 227 as the subject matter of the Bill is the behaviour of officers, members or employees of organisations registered pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the subject matter of the amendment is likewise the behaviour of officers, members or employees of organisations registered pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. By way of a short preface, I refer him to the first annual report of the Trade Practices Commission tabled by the honourable gentleman in this House last week. In that report the Commission states that it is the policy of the Trade Practices Act that administration be kept as much as possible in the open. Is it a fact that the honourable gentleman has on 3 occasions during the past 9 months used his power under section 90 of the Act to compel the Trade Practices Commission to grant authorisations in respect of proposed mergers? Can he explain to the House why on none of those 3 occasions did he give any reasons as to why the directions were being given? Will he be prepared to supply such reasons in future cases so that the actions of the Government might accord with what the Trade Practices Commission regards as the spirit of the Act? 
-In many respects it has taken until the speech delivered by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for this House to recognise just how indebted this Parliament and the Australian people are to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last Tuesday night. Leaving aside for one moment the economic value of what he said, in his speech last Tuesday night the Leader of the Opposition gave to political debate a precision and a difference which perhaps we have not seen for many, many years. How often have the political commentators in this country spoken of the pale differences between the major parties? How often have they spoken of me-tooism? How often have they spoken of quantitative differences but not qualitative differences? 
Last Tuesday night the Leader of the Opposition delivered an economic philosophy which is in total and stark contrast to the economic philosophy of the present Federal Government of Australia. I was very interested to hear the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, at the commencement of his speech, revive the reference to the system by his close colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the former  Deputy  Prime Minister, when he was the Treasurer. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development spoke about the failing system. He was referring of course to the free enterprise system, the system which the present Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  acknowledges must be revived if true economic recovery in this country is to be achieved. The Minister says that the system is failing. Any system in a democracy will fail if you set out to undermine it. Any system in a democracy needs help to be sustained. If anybody in this House imagines that the systems under which we live in our system of government are just going to survive irrespective of whether we work to make them survive, then they are totally deluding themselves. No economic system known to the experience of man will survive attempts to undermine it. 
The Opposition argues that since the Government came to office in December 1972 its poh.cies have been to undermine the system that we have known for generations and the system which the Government's own Treasurer, in delivering the Budget, belatedly recognised as the only way to our economic recovery. It is very curious that when one looks through the Budget Speech delivered by the Treasurer one does not find any references to the system fading but one finds plenty of references to the need to stimulate the private sector. One does see statements such as that:  . . . where three out of four jobs are in the private sector, there are firm limits on how far the public sector should be stimulated in this recovery phase. 
In other words, the Treasurer acknowledges that a recovery in the private sector is necessary. He acknowledges that the only way for an economic recovery in this country is to give proper stimulus to the private sector. What lamentably he faded to_do, having made that acknowledgement, was to provide the recipe for that recovery- to provide the necessary stimulus in the Budget whereby that recovery could be achieved. 
It was left to the alternative government last Tuesday night, through the Leader of the Opposition, to provide the recipe for economic recovery in Australia. In contrast to the Treasurer the Leader of the Opposition was honest enough to tell the Australian people just how serious the economic situation is at the present time. He was honest enough to say to the people that unless we are prepared to be courageous enough to make a significant contribution to the recovery of the private sector- the sector of our economy which the Treasurer recognises is essential to our economic health- then economic recovery is simply not going to be achieved. The failure of the Treasurer, having acknowledged the problem, to provide the stimulus is the true failure of this Budget. 
During the course of his remarks the Minister for Urban and Regional Development made the almost incredible claim that if the public sector is expanded the private sector will not be affected in any way. He spent quite a bit of time advancing that proposition. It reminded me of a paragraph in the Budget delivered by the former Treasurer- the now  Deputy  Prime Minister, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports- in September last year. Although I do not have the document in front of me I can remember the words very well. He stated: 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect on the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
What the then Treasurer- the now Deputy Prime Minister- was saying in September 1974 was that if the private sector is subdued enough it will be possible to stimulate the public sector. Of course that proposition, which was at the root of the Government's philosophy and thinking at that time, does not fit in very easily with what the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has just said. The fact of the matter is, of course, that there is an inter-relation between activity in the public sector and the private sector. Unless there is a significant transfer of assets from the public to the private sector of the order outlined last Tuesday night by the Leader of the Opposition we will just not get that economic recovery which all members of the House, I hope, will work towards, and which the Australian people want and are entitled to have. Unless there is a significant transfer of assets we will not be able to solve the present economic dilemma 
I do not suppose that any Budget since the end of the Second World War could have attracted quite so much interest and attention as this Budget. I do not suppose that the editorial comments in the various newspapers of Australia and other comments in those newspapers about the Budget have been matched in the political experience of this country during the past generation. I think that is very cogent evidence of the real concern of the Australian people about the problems that we presently experience. I would like very strongly to associate myself with everything that was said by the Leader of the Opposition last Tuesday night. That speech gave to the Australian people a clear choice between 2 philosophies and 2 approaches, a choice that none of us on this side of the House equivocates about or is ashamed of. He declared his faith in the free enterprise system and in the capacity of Australians to make their decisions as to the manner in which they Will spend the money they have earned. He rejected in his speech the proposition that governments have some inalienated right to determine how the Australian people shall spend the money they have earned. Nobody will argue that government services are not essential, but we argue very strongly that what has gone wrong with this Government is that more and more it has tried to tell the Australian people how they shall spend their own resources. 
I make one comment about the income tax reforms which have been attempted by the Treasurer. I do not deny that in some areas improvements will occur, although overall the fact remains that under the Treasurer's proposals, under the tax reforms, there will be a 25 per cent greater take by the pay-as-you-eam income tax system. The real significance of these taxation changes is that a penalty will be put on the thrifty and the provident. No matter how much supporters of the Government quote thenversions of the statistics the fact remains that the type of rebate system that has been introduced in the Budget will discourage many people from making their own provision for their own future. We reject that type of approach because it encourages a mendicant mentality on the part of the Australian people- a handout mentalityand discourages those in the community who want to make their own decisions about the way in which they will spend the resources that they earn. 
I would like, in the remainder of my speech, to make a few remarks about an area of the Government's activities which is of particular interest to me and of great significance to economic conditions in Australia at present. I refer to the Trade Practices Commission which was established under the Trade Practices Act which came into operation a few months ago. The first annual report of the Trade Practices Commission was tabled in this House this week. As the Opposition spokesman on the area covering the Trade Practices Act I would like to record my compliments and appreciation of the report furnished to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  by the Trade Practices Commission. To those of us who have a very close interest in the operations of this Commission the first annual report provides an extremely good illustration and handbook of just how the Commission operates. Restrictive trade practices legislation in this country was pioneered by a Liberal-Country Party Government. It was  Sir Garfield  Barwick, then AttorneyGeneral, who first told this House that wholly consonant with the Liberal Party's philosophy on free competition there should be restrictive trade practices legislation and indeed it was in 1965 when, I think, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  was AttorneyGeneral that the first restrictive trade practices legislation was passed by this Parliament. In 1974 the present Government passed into law the present Act. That Act has been in operation for only a few months and it is too early to make definitive conclusions as to whether in its entirety it has been a successful piece of legislation. 
I make it quite clear on the Opposition's part that we believe in having legislation which promotes competition. We believe there are restrictive trade practices around Australia and we believe there should be strong and effective legislation to deal with those practices. There are 2 matters arising out of the first report of the Trade Practices Commission that I would like to mention. I referred to one of them last Tuesday when I asked the Attorney-General a question. It is the power that the Attorney-General has under section 90 of the Trade Practices Act in effect to compel the Commission to issue authorisations. The scheme of the Act is that if a practice is declared to be illegal under the Act and is held to be an anti-competitive practice then it is open for any company carrying on that practice to ask the Commission to authorise the continuance of that practice on the ground that it provides a public benefit. 
On 3 occasions prior to 30 June the AttorneyGeneral saw fit to direct the Commission, as he has power under the Act to do, to issue authorisations notwithstanding the fact that on two of the three instances in question the Commissioner had determined that the practices being carried on were anti-competitive and in relation to the other one, a proposed merger- I know the interest which the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has in these matters- the Commission had not only held that the practice was anti-competitive but it had also determined that it was against the public interest. Yet the Attorney-General, exercising his power under section 90 of the Act and without giving any reasons at all apart from using the statutory form of words set out in section 90, instructed the Commission that it had to issue an authorisation and the Commission, as it is bound to do under the Act, went ahead and issued that authorisation. 
I mention this matter because I think it highlights an area of the operation of the Act that ought to be looked at. I think there are very, very good reasons why this type of power should not be given to the Attorney-General. Under the Act the Commission is obliged to publish reasons for most of its findings. Under the Act companies which have to apply to the Commission for clearances and authorisations are obliged to put on a public register information which many of them regard as highly confidential. It is in fact the practice of the Commission, as is demonstrated by its first annual report, to grant confidentiality only in very, very special circumstances. So the whole spirit and operation of the Act so far as the Commission is concerned and so far as companies are concerned are that everything has to be out in the open. That is a proposition with which most honourable gentlemen would agree and I would have thought it is a proposition with which a party committed to open government would agree. Yet we find under this Government that when the Minister who is responsible for the operation of the Act gets involved he does not give any reasons at all. He applies a double standard. He says to the Trade Practices Commission: 'You can publish your reasons'. He says to the corporations: 'You make all your information available; you disclose all your business details. But when I make up my mind that I am going to compel the Commission to issue an authorisation I am not going to give any explanation'. I do not think that is good enough, and I do not think this Parliament ought to regard it as good enough. This is an area of the operation of the Act that I think ought to be looked at. 
The other area that I should like to mention briefly in the few minutes that are available is the consumer protection sections in Part V of the Trade Practices Act. I do not think that anybody on this side of the House would dispute the fact that in our community there is a need for effective legislation to protect consumers. When Part V of the Act was being debated, the Opposition expressed concern that many of the provisions in it would overlap provisions in existing State legislation, that confusion would be caused to the manufacturer and to the consumer, and that the net result to the community might well be minimal. Some of those fears have proved to be unfounded, but some of them have not. The Opposition is concerned that in the area of consumer protection there should be a complete integration of the activities of the Federal Government and of the State governments. The State governments are close to the market place. They have been operating in the area of consumer protection for a number of years and they know a great deal about the complaints and concerns of consumers. 
What worries me about the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission is that there is evidence that in this area it is dealing with issues that ought to be dealt with by State consumer protection bodies. I refer to page 42 of the annual report, where reference is made to investigations involving the following matters: A false representation that a 1965 model car was a 1968 model car and a false representation that a car was an ex-manufacturer's executive's car when in fact it was an ex-rental car. I do not think that anybody in this House would dispute that representations of that nature ought to be investigated, and if false representations are made they ought to be dealt with under the law. There are State laws dealing with these matters, and I think it is cause for some concern that the legislation as presently framed allows this overlap and this confusion to arise. I am not suggesting that it is the fault of the Trade Practices Commission. It is obliged to interpret the Act as best it can. But I think there is room even at this early stage for reviewing the operation of the legislation to see whether we can write into it provisions that prevent overlapping and provisions that will ensure that in providing a sensible system of consumer protection for all Australians there will be total integration of the operations of the Federal Government and of the State governments. 
-The Opposition agrees that the amendments circulated by the Minister for Overseas Trade improve the clause. Subject to our general opposition to the Bill the Opposition raises no specific objection to the amendments. 
-Once again, subject to our general opposition to this Bill, the Opposition agrees with the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  that the amendment improves the clause. 
-The Opposition does think that the amendment improves the clause. We are always pleased to see legislation establishing Government business corporations stating that sound commercial principles should be observed. Subject once again to our objection to the Bill, we think an improvement is brought about by the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-I direct the attention of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  to clause 41 which deals with the guarantee. It is couched in language which is found in other legislation establishing government corporations. While it purports to give a guarantee by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia in respect of debts due by the Corporation it does not in any way authorise a creditor or other person claiming against the Corporation to sue Australia in respect of his claim. Would the Minister be kind enough for my guidance and perhaps the guidance of the Committee to explain the basis of what I see as a limited guarantee? 
It is inevitable in a debate such as this that much of the discussion time should be taken up with suggestions as to the way in which the work of the Parliament could be improved together with comments upon deficiencies. As a member who has been here for a very short period, I make only one suggestion: Perhaps the Standing Orders Committee might consider a reduction in the time allowed private members for speeches on the second reading of Bills from 20 minutes to 10 minutes. During the time that I have been here I have formed a very strong opinion that what is lacking in many of the second reading debates is an atmosphere of debate. One of the things that contributes to sterility in a debate is the large number of members on both sides of the chamber who read prepared speeches. There is no spirit of give and take in the course of the debate. There is no attempt to answer comments and criticisms which have been made by preceding speakers. Whilst I think that it would be impractical to alter the time allotted to the leading  speaker  for the Opposition or to a Minister in a debate, I think that the Standing Orders Committee ought to give some serious consideration to introducing a reduction in the speaking time from 20 minutes to 10 minutes. I think that this should be considered particularly towards the end of a second reading debate when every principle has been canvassed carefully and gone over again by the preceding speakers. I think that 20 minutes speaking time for every  speaker  is far too long. The fact that on many occasions we are exhorted by the Government Whip, the Leader of the House, our own Whip and our own Leader of the House to limit our remarks to about 10 minutes only proves the point. I hope that the Standing Orders Committee might take that matter into account. 
The other matter that I want to mention is one that was referred to by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  in his remarks. It is not saying anything new in a debate like this to say that the institution of Parliament throughout the world is under very serious challenge. I take the matter even further than that. The institution of Parliament, as we understand it, is virtually nonexistent throughout the world. I do not think that it should pass the notice of honourable members that since the estimates for the Parliament were last debated in October of last year the largest functioning parliamentary democracy in the world has ceased to exist as a parliamentary democracy. 
I refer to the very unfortunate events which have overtaken the Indian nation in regard to its parliamentary system. I derive no pleasure from referring to this matter and I do not raise it in any unduly punitive sense. But I think that it is a first class tragedy for the parliamentary system throughout the world to have witnessed the events which have overtaken India during the last few months. To many honourable members on both sides of the chamber India represented hope for the success of the Westminster parliamentary system in Asia. It was to be an example to the Third World that the system of parliamentary democracy might be able to work in an environment that many thought was alien to that system. I think that it is a tragedy for the parliamentary system throughout the entire world that the events which occurred in India did occur, particularly after a period of 25 years of parliamentary democracy. If we imagine that our problems are immense, India had problems far beyond the problems of this nation. As I say, it had tried for so long to make the system of parliamentary democracy work. I think that it ought to serve as a salutary lesson for all of us, irrespective of our partisan feelings, that the system of parliamentary democracy throughout the world is limited to a very few countries. 
One can travel the length of the African continent and not find one system which can genuinely be called a free parliamentary democracy. In Europe, the number of genuine parliamentary or semi-parliamentary democracies is very limited. Honourable members on both sides of the chamber know that in only a very few countries in Europe does the democratic parliamentary tradition have a very firm basis. Of course, one is confronted with the same experiences in South America as one finds in Africa. So the countries throughout the world which have a system of government which resembles anything like an effective parliamentary system are reduced to a very small number. We belong to that very small group of countries. It ought not to be assumed from that that we will always be able to take our parliamentary system for granted. 
It is very easy on an occasion like this to make flowery speeches about the value of a parliamentary system of government. But I think that it is a valuable system of government and all of us must try to make it work. There is a responsibility on political parties and all members of Parliament to make the system work and not to imagine in the present conditions throughout the world in which violence is often used to obtain political ends in a far more frightening and, to the ordinary citizen, a far more blood-curdling way than perhaps was used in the past, that this system wa endure forever. We have to work very hard to make it survive. 
It is only natural that Government supporters have taken this opportunity in debating the parliamentary estimates to talk about the events which have occurred in another place in respect of the filling of a casual vacancy. I would have been surprised- in fact, astounded- if the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  had not taken advantage of that. The only comment I want to make on the matter is to remind honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Bourke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who has now left the chamber, that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Macolm Fraser)  made his attitude perfectly clear on that matter. It is an attitude which I certainly share, and it is an attitude which I am sure the overwhelming majority of members of the Party that he leads share. 
-I am glad that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  interjected on that note. I would remind the Minister that the Leader of the Opposition leads the Federal Parliamentary Liberal Party in the same way as his Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  leads the Federal Parliamentary Australian Labor Party. When the South Australian Premier decided that the Minister's leader was a little too close for electorate comfort a couple of months ago, he did not have any compunction about dissociating himself from the Federal Party. I think that the Minister knows enough about the functioning of political parties in this country to know that State parliamentary parties operate independently from Federal parliamentary parties. The Minister for Services and Property and other Government speakers took advantage of this debate on the Estimates to raise the filling of the casual vacancy in the Senate. Whilst it does not surprise me in the least that they did this, I do not think that it Will have the effect that they think it will have. The Leader of the Opposition made his position abundantly clear and the attitude that he expressed is shared by the overwhelming majority of the members of the parliamentary Liberal Party and Liberal supporters throughout Australia. 
I conclude my remarks by again saying that the institution of parliamentary democracy throughout the world is in a fairly fragile state. The system has gone under in the world's largest functioning parliamentary democracy during the last 12 months. Only a very few countries have anything resembling a viable parliamentary system. We are one of those countries. Perhaps in a debate such as this, above aU other debates in this Parliament, we ought to recall our collective responsibility to protect that institution. It can survive only if we want it to survive. We cannot write rules that will preserve parliamentary democracy for all time. It rests to a very large extent on the desire and the willingness of the people who participate in it to make it work. I think that that involves all of us and places a heavy responsibility on all of us. 

 Mr king (Mallee) (10.9)-This evening we have heard some very interesting contributions from both sides of the chamber in the debate on the estimates for the Parliament. I think, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  rightly said, to a certain degree there is a lot of agreement. However, there are a few things that were said by honourable members opposite with which I think possibly some members of this side of the chamber do not agree. I was rather amused to hear the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  talking about honourable members on this side of the chamber carrying on Uke a lot of larrikins. Far be it for me to comment on a reference about larrikinism by the Minister for Services and Property. He went on to blame the Opposition for stopping the passing of legislation. He also said that we should not squeal when the Government brought down the hammer and gagged debates. After all, the Minister's most famous statement is: While the Opposition might have aU the logic, the Government has the numbers. I am afraid that the Minister for Services and Property quite often uses that argument to his advantage. I think it was a tragedy that the Minister discussed issues such as this tonight. If he had not raised them I certainly would not have done so. 
I am, Uke a lot of other honourable members, somewhat concerned at the decision of the Minister. He said that it is quite aU right if we want to call quorums because again he has the numbers and he uses them. I do not think this is a good and proper attitude to take. The Minister talked about altering the hours of sitting of the Parliament so that we could have more time in our electorates. I thank him for that consideration. I then immediately noted that in the Estimates debate all honourable members, other than Ministers, are limited to 10 minutes speaking time. What happened tonight? The Minister not only had his 10 minutes but he exceeded it by quite a considerable time. i am not too sure of the exact time by which he exceeded the 10 minutes, but i know he spoke for at least 15 minutes. Be that as it may; that is his privilege as a Minister. 
-In the brief time available to me to speak on the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department I would like to take the opportunity to express to the Committee my concern, and I think the concern of a great number of members of the Opposition, about the quality of the legal advice which has been tendered to the present Government by the 2 persons who have occupied the office of Attorney-General since this Government took office in December 1972. It will be well known to members of the Committee that the AttorneyGeneral is the principal law officer of the Crown. He is the government's principal legal adviser on all the activities of the government. In the last analysis the Attorney-General in any government is the person who should, notwithstanding his partisan political support of the government of which he is a member, be the person who is prepared to blow the whistle on the legal aspects of any proposals which the government to which he belongs may have in mind. T was educated to believe that a good lawyer was one who kept his client out of court by giving him the right advice in the first place and by advising him to settle a case when he could not win it, and above all one who kept his client in a situation where he was not involved in constant litigation. Let us examine that proposition against the performance of the two persons who have occupied the position of Attorney-General since this Government came to office. When we conduct that analysis I think we find that the two occupants have fallen very far short of the proposition that a good lawyer is a person who keeps his client out of court. 
I am sure the Prime Minister would agree. The facts indicate that the two persons who have occupied the position of Attorney-General since this Government came to office have not kept their client out of court. In fact this headline appeared in an article in the Financial Review of recent date: 'Whitlam packs the High Court- with business'. Of the many records which this Government has established since December 1972 one record which perhaps has escaped the notice of the House and the Australian people is the amount of litigation in which the Commonwealth Government has been involved. 
The Government has set many recordsrecord inflation, record strikes, record post-war collapses of small businesses and record economic uncertainty. Another record is the record litigation involving the Federal Government. I think this reflects directly and without qualification upon the quality of the legal advice which has been offered to the Government by the 2 persons who have occupied the position of AttorneyGeneral. At present 17 cases involving the Federal Government are before the High Court. The House will be aware, and in particular my colleague the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  who is sitting opposite, of the extent to which the High Court, as the only arbiter in Australia of the constitutional limits of the power of the Commonwealth Government, literally is bogged down in adjudicating on matters involving the constitutional power of Acts passed by this present Government. 
One could be forgiven for believing that when this Government came to office it set out upon a course of action which involved a complete disregard of any consideration by its own legal adviser as to whether or not a particular Act of the Parliament was valid. Whilst I would never deny the proposition that it is the place of the High Court in the final analysis to determine whether or not a law of this Parliament is valid I put it to the Committee that any AttorneyGeneral of this country has an obligation to advise the Government that he serves whether or not Acts passed by this Parliament are within constitutional power. I think when one examines the fate of the Acts which have been passed by this Parliament since this Government came to power one finds that the quality of the advice tendered to the Government on so many occasions has not been perhaps what it should have been. I can quote one or two examples. One is reminded, of course, of the fate of the petroleum and minerals authority legislation which was rejected by the High Court as being outside the operation of section 57 of the Constitution being legislation which ought not to have been considered at the Joint Sitting of this Parliament convened last year. One thinks of the legal advice that was tendered by the occupant of the office at the time of the notorious loans affair. Members of the Committee will recall the remarks made in respect of that advice by my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  when he categorised the advice given on that occasion as advice that no honest men could possibly have given. 
When one goes through so many examples one finds time and time again that the quality of the legal advice which has been given to the Government has been sadly-lacking. I think it is a matter of real concern that the High Court of Australia should have so much of its time consumed with determining the constitutional validity of Acts of this Parliament. I think there is an obligation on the principal law officer of the Crown to give advice to the Government of the country from time to time as to whether or not Acts of Parliament are valid. I think it is a dismal commentary on the quality of the advice that has been given to this Government that the High Court is so occupied with constitutional cases. The High Court is not exclusively concerned with determining constitutional cases. It is also a general appellate court and as far as the Opposition is concerned long may it remain a general appellate court throughout this country. 
-The Attorney-General interjects and says that we want the Privy Council to determine constitutional matters. I remind the Attorney-General that it was Attorney-General Bowen of a Liberal-Country Party Government who introduced legislation in 1968 to determine for all time appeals from the High Court of Australia to the Privy Council in constitutional cases. 
-We voted in favour of that legislation and we will vote in favour of legislation to abolish appeals to the Privy Council if the procedure to abolish those appeals is the correct one. Once again one is reminded of the extraordinary legal advice which is given to the Government in respect of appeals to the Privy Council. Instead of giving what I think most Australians would regard as mature advice- the advice consonant with Australia's independent status in 1975- successive Attorneys-General of this country have advised the Federal Government that it should invoke the terms of a 1931 statute of the Imperial Parliament which represents perhaps the most prestigious of all the legal links between Australia and the United Kingdom, links which my honourable friend's predecessor was so ready to refer to in contemptuous terms. They would invoke such a statute to abolish appeals to the Privy Council. 
When one examines the history of legal advice tendered by the Attorneys-General under the Whitlam Labor Government since 1972 one finds that time and time again that advice has been found wanting, that this Government has been bogged down in a series of constitutional cases before the High Court and that this client, the Federal Government, has been involved in too much litigation. The quality of the advice must be found wanting when one examines the many matters that have come before the High Court. I think the two Attorneys-General of the Whitlam Labor Government have failed the test of any good lawyer- being able to keep bis client out of court. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-At the outset of this cognate debate on the redistribution proposals for 5 Australian States let me say that the Opposition parties will oppose these 5 Bills both in this House and in another place. In so doing we will repeat the attitude that we displayed in the debate on these Bills and during the debate on the motions presented to the House in May of this year. The decision of the Opposition to oppose these Bills was arrived at by the joint Opposition parties. The opposition to this legislation is as strongly felt in the Liberal Party as it is in the National Country Party of Australia. On the third occasion on which this House has the opportunity of debating these measures let me say again that the proposition advanced by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and by other Government speakers during the several debates on these measures this year, to the effect that the Liberal Party had a vested interest in supporting these proposals, is absolute nonsense. In fact if one examines in detail the redistribution proposals for New South Wales, the largest State in Australia, one finds that this is the State in which the Liberal Party would be the most disadvantaged and the Labor Party would be the most advantaged. 
As the Leader of the House has reminded us this is the third occasion within a few months on which this House has had the opportunity to debate these measures. To some extent the arguments that will be advanced during the course of the debate this afternoon will be repetitive, but sometimes repetition is necessary to drive home the point. We intend to repeat the arguments that we advanced on the 2 earlier occasions as to why these proposals are unacceptable to us. One of these arguments drew attention to the unusual procedure that the Government has used to deal with these proposals. Honourable members will be aware that it has been the custom of this Parliament- as indicated by the Commonwealth Electoral Act under which the redistribution has been made- not to deal with redistribution proposals in the form of legislation but rather to have motions asking the House to approve the proposals. That is the scheme laid down by the Electoral Act and that is the practice that has been followed on earlier occasions when redistributions have been carried out. Therefore we on this side of the House ask the initial question: Why has the Government decided to put these redistribution proposals in the form of Bills? It does not need terribly much intelligence or genius to work out why. The Government wants to add these 5 Bills to its storehouse of unpassed legislation. Government supporters think that somehow or other these 5 Bills constitute an issue on which they could win a double dissolution election campaign. If they want to send these 5 Bills into the storehouse we are only too happy to facilitate that process and we will be doing so by voting against these proposals this afternoon. 
The practice, as I have said, has always been to bring motions forward. That is the scheme laid down by the Electoral Act, and incidentally was the procedure that was followed at the time of the last redistribution carried out by a LiberalCountry Party Government. On that occasion the redistribution proposals for Queensland were rejected in the Senate. Did the Liberal-Country Party of the day in a petulant reaction to the then Opposition, the Labor Party, and the Democratic Labor Party defeating its proposals in the Senate run off and bring the proposals back in the form of legislation and hold a double dissolution threat over the then Opposition? Of course it did not. It did what the Electoral Act requires. It sent the maps for Queensland back to the Distribution Commissioners and asked them to bring up an alternative set of maps. That is the scheme laid down by the Electoral Act and the Opposition, of course, draws attention to the fact that the Government has departed from that procedure. . We have heard a great deal during the debates we have had in this House on redistributions about the integrity of the Distribution Commissioners. In fact one of the principal arguments that has been advanced by the Government in support of its proposals is the fantastic proposition that the Opposition, in criticising the redistribution proposals, is in some way reflecting upon the honour, credit and integrity of the Distribution Commissioners. Time and time again we have been accused of defaming honest men. We even had an incredible speech from the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  who is now the Minister for Housing and Construction, on 22 May. He was speaking on the initial proposals for New South Wales and said: 
A subversive speech was made by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia tonight when he attacked the members of the Commission for carrying out the law. The Leader of the National Country Party stood in this Parliament tonight and advocated opposition to a law of Australia. 
What the honourable member for Phillip, now the Minister for Housing and Construction, was saying- and what the Leader of the House no doubt will say during the course of this debatewas that to attack these proposals in any way and in any way to call in question their objectivity is to impugn the honesty and integrity of the Distribution Commmissioners. I remind members of the Government, and in particular the honourable member for Phillip and the Leader of the House, that the Electoral Act specifically gives to this Parliament the right to decide whether the proposals of the Distribution Commissioners will be put into effect. If it was never intended by this Parliament that we should have the right to carry out our own objective review of these proposals the Electoral Act would never have given to the Parliament the right to review the proposals of the Commissioners. If one looks at the electoral legislation of some of the States one finds that proposals once made by Distribution Commissioners are not submitted to Parliament for parliamentary approval. The Leader of the House knows that that is the case in New South Wales. 
-The Leader of the House says that is a shocking thing. On this occasion I happen to agree with him. I believe this Parliament has a right to make its own decision about the electoral boundaries drawn up by Commissioners. I do not think that, in disagreeing with those proposals, it is correct to say that we are impugning the honour, the integrity and the decency of the Distribution Commissioners. In no way have we attacked their honour and decency. We just beg to differ from their conclusions. In doing so we exercise a right which has been given to this Parliament by the Act under which the redistribution has been carried out. So much for the principal argument that has been advanced constantly during these debates by the Government. 
Surely the Government does not suggest that the redistribution proposals, once drawn up by the Commissioners, should receive a rubber stamp approval from this Parliament. Or does it really think they should? If the behaviour of many Ministers of this Government during the past few months is any indication, the Government does regard this Parliament as a rubber stamp. Every time the Opposition criticises legislation or responsibly uses its majority in another place it is accused of obstructionism and of frustrating the democratic will of the Australian community. It is accused of being ultraconservative and of being led by the nose by the National Country Party. What absolute nonsense. In expressing our views on these proposals and in using our numbers in another place to defeat them we are exercising a right and a power lawfully given to us by the Electoral Act under which the redistribution proposals were carried out. 
Having put to rest that spurious argument advanced by the Government let us turn to the next argument the Government has often relied on- the famous argument of one vote one value. The Leader of the House knows better than most that theoretically you cannot have one vote one value. He knows very well that unless you have a totally static population, a population which grows in equal proportion throughout the entire country, you can never have one vote one value, for as soon as you adjust the electoral boundaries on a basis of numerical equality, within a few months they are by normal population trends out of kilter. So the proposition about one vote one value is a spurious one. 
If indeed the Government is so dedicated to one vote one value why does it tolerate a situation whereby Tasmanian divisions have on average 15 000 to 20 000 fewer electors than mainland divisions have? I am not advocatingindeed the Opposition does not advocate- that the situation should be otherwise, but if the Government is so committed to a principle of one vote one value why does it not, to be consistent, initiate some amendment to the Constitution to cover that situation? While I am on the subject of Tasmania, one of the Bills before the House- in fact, the first one to be voted onproposes a redistribution for the State of Tasmania. One wonders why it is necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania. All of the seats in Tasmania are of roughly equivalent enrolment. None of the seats in Tasmania is out of kilter with the permissible variance from the quota, so one asks the question: Why is it necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania? The Government did not deem it necessary to carry out a redistribution in the State of Western Australia, although one of the seats in Western Australia exceeds by many thousands the permissible variation from the quota and yet, strangely enough, it found it necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania. The Government knows, or it ought to know, that unlike the other States a redistribution in Tasmania creates internal State political dislocations because, as honourable members on the Opposition side of the House will know, State electoral divisions are totally geared to Federal electoral divisions in Tasmania under the Hare-Clark system of voting and that if there is an alteration of Federal boundaries in Tasmania it will then be necessary automatically to change the State electoral boundaries in Tasmania. 
One wonders why it is necessary to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania. There does not seem to be any overwhelming one vote one value argument. There do not seem to be any overwhelming discrepancies from the permissible variations from the quota. Wicked though members of the Government apparently think it is for members of the Opposition to contend that there might be some political advantage for the Government in carrying out a redistribution in Tasmania, of course it will not escape the attention of members on this side of the House that indeed the Government's most marginal seat in Tasmania- the seat of Denison- has been strengthened under these proposals. 
As we go around the various States we find again and again examples of where these redistribution proposals have failed what I regard and what other members on this side of the House regard as the essential test of any redistribution proposals and that is an essential test of fairness. In this respect and on that test we on this side of the House disagree with the conclusions which have been reached by the Distribution Commissioners and in exercising the right given to us under the Electoral Act we shall be voting against them. Perhaps nowhere can there be found better evidence of how these proposals have failed the test of fairness than in the State of New South Wales. The Minister knows that in the 1972 and in the 1974 Federal elections the Australian Labor Party polled a clear majority of votes in New South Wales and on both of those occasions the Labor Party won a clear majority of seats. At the present time of the 45 New South Wales seats in this Parliament 25 are held by the Australian Labor Party and 20 by the Opposition; rightly so, according to the votes that were cast in May of 1974. What perhaps some members of the House may not know is that if the proposals submitted to the Distribution Commissioners by the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales- this Party which is so committed to democratic government, which is so committed to one vote one value, which is so committed to electoral justice- were accepted by the Commissioners they would, on the same votes cast in May 1 974, give to the Labor Party in New South Wales 29 seats and not 25 seats and would give to the joint Opposition Parties 16 seats and not 20 seats. One also knows, and the Leader of the House knows, that under the proposals presented to this Parliament the proposals that the Government wants us to accept and that we are criticised for opposing, the Australian Labor 
Party would on a repetition of the May 1974 vote in New South Wales receive 28 seats to 17 seats to be won by the joint Opposition Parties. 
If one looks at the proposals in detail in New South Wales one finds again and again that the seats which are critical in any election, the marginal seats, have been by and large strengthened in favour of the Government and strengthened, I might emphasise, to the distinct disadvantage of the Liberal Party. If one is to have any rational approach to redistribution proposals one must direct one's attention to the impact to those proposals on marginal seats. It matters not whether the seat of Grayndler held by the Leader of the House is altered so that his majority is 5000 or 10 000 less. He is still going to win it and equally honourable members of this side of the House will know of many seats where the same comment could be made in reference to Opposition members. 
What really does matter in redistribution proposals is what they do to the marginal seats. None of the seats of Eden-Monaro, Cook, Macarthur, Barton, Evans, Phillip and St George, the marginal Labor seats in New South Wales, has been weakened for the Government and quite a number of them have been strengthened for the Government, in particular, the seat of Macarthur, where a swing of 5.1 per cent on present boundaries would defeat the sitting member. Under the proposals of the Commissioners a swing of 9.8 per cent would be required to defeat the sitting member. 
One thinks of my honourable friend, the member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe). His  seat is effectively turned into a Labor seat by these proposals and, whilst I have little doubt that he would be able to retain the seat, the pattern is still there. Again and again these Labor marginals have been strengthened and the Opposition marginals have been weakened. Therefore, these proposals fail the essential test of electoral fairness because there is a manifest imbalance so far as the redistribution of the marginal seats is concerned, particularly in the States of New South Wales and in the State of Victoria. 
During the course of this debate and particularly today the Leader of the House and the member for Port Adelaide tried to raise the spectre of division between the Opposition Parties on these proposals. In fact if one looks at these proposals in detail one sees that what the Government really set out to do was to try to kid the Liberal Party into believing that by abolishing the odd country seat here and there and creating the odd new metropolitan seat in some way it was going to advantage the Liberal Party. It hoped that we wOUld look at the redistribution in Victoria and see that nice new seat of DoncasterTemplestowe, that we would look at the redistribution in Sydney and see that nice new seat of Eastwood and say: 'This is good for the Liberal Party. Let us have it'. Of course, what the Leader of the House did not realise was that we also look at the impact of the redistribution proposals on other seats that we presently hold and on seats that we would win in the event of a Federal election. 
I say to the members of the Government and to the Leader of the House that they won the last 2 elections on the present boundaries. Surely they do not argue that those boundaries are rigged against them. If, indeed, the Leader of the House believes, as members on this side of the House believe, that the Distribution Commissioners have done an honest job, why does he not send the maps back to the Distribution Commissioners and say: 'Have another go; the Parliament disagrees with you'! Why will he not let them have another look at them? Why does he not send these maps back? He cannot really answer that question. He does not want these maps to go back to the Distribution Commissioners because he knows that the proposals as they have been presented are a good thing for the Labor Party and that it is absolutely frantic to have these boundaries. It desperately needs these boundaries. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  pointed out, it is running electorally scared and it needs these boundaries to shore up its sagging electoral fortunes and that is the reason why they have been converted into legislation. That is the reason why the maps are not going back to the Distribution Commissioners and that is another reason why we should be opposing this legislation, both here and in another place. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 


 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (2.15)- I support the Electoral Re-distribution Bills before the House. I find it difficult to understand the Opposition's tactics when electoral Bills come before the House. It always seems to complain about the amount of time it has to discuss the Bills and then sets out to waste as much time as possible. Everyone remembers the last occasion when these Bills were before the House. The Opposition kept calling for quorums and for divisions and doing everything to hold up debate on the Bills. Lo and behold, we see the same tactics again today. On a clearly procedural matter put by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  the Opposition set out to spend a lengthy time in debate deliberately to hold up the passage of these Bills. Members of the Opposition complain about not having enough time to discuss these Bills, yet, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, in the Senate where the Opposition has a majority it applies the gag as quickly as possible to force its objection to these Bills. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  informed the House that the Government has no right to bring these Bills back into the House. He said that they should be sent back to the Distribution Commissioners. Would that not be a joke? Has the National Country Party not clearly shown that it does not matter how many times these Bills go before the Commissioners they will never be passed by this Parliament. This is an example of the National Country Party's old attitude of having two laws, one for the rich and one for the poor; one for the privileged and another one for the unprivileged. It does not want to obey the law. Why are members of the National Country Party opposed to these Bills? Are they not consistent with the requirements of the Electoral Act? Would elections held under these electoral boundaries drawn up by the Distribution Commissionersindependent Commissioners- not reflect the will of the majority in the individual constituencies as well as in the States as a whole? Of course they would. Should these considerations not be the basic and overriding consideration in any redistribution? Of course they should. 
There are only two means by which the electors can get electoral justice in Australia. Surely no one wants to go on with the gerrymander under which elections have been held for so long. Some members of the Opposition have asked: 'Why do we need a redistribution?' It should be clear to anyone that there is a real need for a redistribution in Australia. Is it not a fact in many electorates there has been a substantial shift in population since the last redistribution in 1968? Is it not also a fact that there has been a marked increase in population in some areas. There has been an alteration to the Commonwealth Electoral Act to provide for voting by 18-year olds. Surely that must affect a lot of electorates in which there is a young population as compared with other areas with older populations. Migrants have been granted the right to obtain citizenship after 3 years of residence in Australia instead of after 5 years. Who would say that has not made a difference to the numbers of electors eligible to vote since 1968? Of course this has made a difference. 
If I were concerned about only my own political opportunities I would not want to support these Bills. They do not help me. But it is the law. That should be the overriding consideration. Members of the Opposition should want to obey the law, not for their own advantage. It is a responsibility of all members of this Parliament to give a lead. They should give some respect to the law. Of course many honourable members must know as I do that the number of electors in their electorates would have to be substantially increased to meet the statutory requirements of the Act. Take as an example the electorate of Mitchell and the electorate of Darling, my own electorate. There are 82 864 electors in Mitchell and only 47 806 in Darling- a 75 per cent difference. No one can tell me that that is not gerrymandering. Who can say that there is any semblance of democracy in that kind of difference. No decent honourable member should want to remain in Parliament by finding a way around the law. One should follow the law. One should be prepared to endorse it. We know what members of the Opposition will do. They will knock back every redistribution proposal that comes before the Parliament. The real meaning of democracy must surely be one vote one value, or one vote of one citizen equal to the value of the vote of another citizen. 
These two Parties were telling us this morning how united they are on this issue, whereas the Liberals have indicated by this map that they give little consideration to community of interest. The National Country Party keeps hammering aU the time that there is no community of interest in some country electorates. But what does it mean by community of interest? It has made a reference to country centres and mining centres like Broken Hill and Cobar. What does it mean that it has no community of interest with the people in these areas. It wants these people to buy the meat and contribute to the floor price of the wool of its supporters but it does not want them in the same electorate because those people are different from National Country Party supporters. What a lot of nonsense. I want these people to know, whether they are in country areas or in mining towns, that they have a lot of community of interest with me and I will be doing my best for them in this Parliament 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  referred to a document written by Malcolm Mackerras in which he said: 
In overall political terms the 197S redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to any Australian Parliament in my lifetime. 
That was written before the boundaries were presented. 
The commissioners have bent over backwards to avoid any suggestion of gerrymander. My impression is that they have set out to draw boundaries so patently fair that rejection by the Senate would reflect discredit on the Senate and not on the commissioners. 
Yet we hear all this nonsense today. Now I want to refer to some of the submissions that were made to the commissioners opposing the proposed boundaries. One letter came from a person in my electorate. It reads as follows:  'Alpha'  Collarenebri. 10 March 1975 
Dear  Sir, 
I should like to complain about the size of the suggested alteration of the Gwydir electorate. It is far too big for any member to cover and find out what the electors want. We in this area have only seen our member once since it was last altered; and he never seems to take any notice of what we want in this area. 
We have one of the worst mails, if not the worst in the State and nothing has been done about it. 
We have had the worst open throated locust plague that has been known. This area is the worst of anywhere, and our member has not had time to come and see us. So if the Gwydir electorate is made bigger, it would be just impossible for any one man to keep in touch with his electors. 
I want to point out that I used a large portion of my $1,000 allowance to go up to that area and observe the spur throated locusts. When I returned I spoke in this House about the plague. 
The only complaint the people have is that they have never seen their State Country Party member there. They said:  'His  electorate is only half the size of yours but he never comes around to see us. ' There is a problem also with the hospital. They said: 'Look at the terrible hospital we have. ' I said: 'Yes. That is a State matter. ' I think that it is shocking that a man like  Dr Kalokerinos  has to live in that hospital. I told the people that I would see what I could do. I came back here and spoke to the relevant Ministers. I said: 'There is a large population of Aborigines there. Can you do something about it?' Now we see that a home is being built for the doctor in that town, although this was neglected by the Liberal-Country Party Federal and State governments. The Liberal and National Country parties are not sincere in their opposition to these Bills. They want to continue these unfair boundaries that have been so advantageous to them. They do not want the electors of this country to get a fair deal. All they are worried about is their own survival. I commend these Bills to the House. 
-My friend, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  in the course of his remarks during the second reading stage of the debate, amongst other things spent a great deal of time talking about electoral arrangements that exist in the various States of Australia. I would be very happy to engage the honourable member for Port Adelaide in a debate on the electoral arrangements that used to exist in New South Wales prior to 1965. But I would remind honourable members that the purpose of this debate this afternoon is to discuss the redistribution proposals for the Commonwealth Parliament. 
References to electoral arrangements that exist in various States are irrelevant to the discussion. 
The thing that intrigued me most about the speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide- particularly in view of the eloquent tributes to democracy paid by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)-  was his reference to the result of the last Senate election. He said that the result was caused by the system. I think we ought to take such a proposition very seriously because in effect, what the honourable member for Port Adelaide is saying is that the present method of electing senators at Senate elections is undemocratic and unacceptable to the Labor Government. I think that is a very interesting proposition because I think even the honourable member for Port Adelaide, in his less partisan moments, might agree that there is less electoral distortion and a more direct expression of popular will through a system of proportional representation than there often is through a system of single member constituencies. It is precisely because the Senate is so evenly balanced so often that the fairness of the system of proportional representation is demonstrated. 
On most occasions in the past, not all- and I dare say it will not be the case on the next occasion that this country goes to the polls- the total number of people who voted one way or another is usually fairly close. The percentage variations between the two are not very large. Above all, because the Senate has a system of proportional representation- a system which the honourable member for Port Adelaide knows very well- the result is always likely to be close and one which is very democratic. So the honourable member for Port Adelaide and Government supporters cannot really blame the result of the last Senate election in May 1974 on anything other than an expression of will by the Australian people. 
One of the greatest untruths about the electoral situation in Australia at the moment is the story which has been peddled by the Labor Party that somehow or other the result of the Senate election last year was a fraud. Government supporters argue in that way only because they did not win the Senate election. That is the reason why they think it is a fraud. That is the reason why they are suggesting that in frustration they might go outside the system. This tack was adopted last night by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  He spent 6 minutes during the adjournment debate talking about the frustration of Labor members who entered Parliament as young men and grew to middle and old age in Opposition. He said they were so frustrated that they were tempted to go outside the system. This is a very remarkable proposition that has been advanced by the Government because - 
-The remarks that I wish to make in this third reading stage of the Electoral Re-distribution (Victoria) Bill are designed to put to rest, if it ought to be done, the misrepresentation which has been perpetual in this debate from the Government side regarding what it claims to be an equivocal attitude by the Liberal Party of Australia towards these redistribution Bills. 
-I am glad that my friend from Wilmot has interjected. This is precisely the point I wanted to make. If my friend from Wilmot would go back through the  Hansard  records of the 3 debates we have had this year on redistribution proposals, it might surprise him, the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and no doubt the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the other experts on electoral matters who sit opposite to find that the very first person to express the Opposition's attitude to these electoral proposals was none other than the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who happens to be a member of the Liberal Party of Australia and Leader of the Opposition. He laid down the position. He made it quite clear what the joint attitude of the Opposition parties was to these proposals. If I remember rightly, on that occasion the Leader of the Opposition endeavoured to persuade the Government that we should have a cognate debate on all the proposals which, of course, would have been a sensible course to have adopted on that occasion. But because of the fractious attitude taken by the Leader of the House on that occasion, the Government used its weight of numbers to prevent a cognate debate. It is only now when the Leader of the House is getting a little tired of the argument that he is agreeable to have a cognate debate. 
Government supporters come into this House and say that the Liberal Party is not interested in the matter and that there are great benefits in this redistribution for the Liberal Party. I would like them to repeat that sort of statement in the presence of the Liberal Party candidates for all the marginal seats in Melbourne that we will win at the next election. I would like them to repeat this statement in the presence of the Liberal Party candidates for the marginal seats in Sydney that we will win at the next election. The Liberal Party is very directly and very significantly affected by these redistribution proposals, particularly in Melbourne and Sydney. The Government's tactic during this debate has been a very clear one. It has tried to use the old scratchy record of creating mischief and division between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. It has tried to use this totally fallacious argument that the Liberal Party has been reluctantly suborned into opposing these measures. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
The attitude of the Liberal Party organisation towards these proposals, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria where they are most damaging to the Liberal Party, is quite clear and unambiguous. The proposals that were submitted by the Liberal Party organisation to the distribution commissioners acknowledges that the joint Opposition parties have consistently taken an attitude on redistribution. We opposed the alterations to the Electoral Act which were passed during the Joint Sitting. There is nothing inconsistent with what we have done either jointly or severally in respect of redistribution. We have maintained a united attitude. I can understand the attitude of my colleagues in the National Country Party, particularly those of people like the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  whose seat will disappear. Of course one can understand the attitude of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  There is a manic preoccupation in the ranks of the Government with regard to country representation in this House. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield said, they hate the farmers. 
-Even though the Minister for Services and Property may have come from Currabubula, his heart is very much in Marrickville. The truth of the matter is that this tactic of the Government to try to divide the Opposition parties on this issue has been a miserable abysmal failure. The Liberal Party is a wake-up to these redistribution proposals. We recognise that it is not the tip of the iceberg that matters; that it is not the icing on the cake that matters; but it is what is below the surface of these redistribution proposals which is bad news for the Liberal Party and for the Opposition in general. That is why we are opposing these redistribution proposals. For the Minister or any of his colleagues to come into this House and suggest that we are being suborned, led by the nose, over-borne or acting in accordance with other epithets which Government supporters might throw at us, is absolute nonsense. 
As the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  says, it is a heap of garbage. Our attitude was made clear in this House. The first person to enunciate the Opposition's attitude was the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Wannon. That ought to put at rest completely this phoney argument that the Government has tried to advance during the course of this debate. The truth is that the Government is frantic to have these new boundaries. It is a matter of some interest not only to me but to other members of the Opposition that when the provisional parliamentary program was circulated for this week, the information we were given was that the Estimates were to be debated for the whole of the week. The idea was that there were not going to be any second reading debates on the redistribution proposals but that we were going to get rid of the Estimates. Then out of the blue came these redistribution proposals. The preoccupation of this Government with regard to electoral matters is something quite amazing. 
The  Hansard  reports of this Parliament since the honourable member for Grayndler has been the Minister in charge of electoral matters are absolutely chock-a-block full of debate on electoral matters. The Minister has sought on 3 occasions to put through redistribution proposals. He has tried on multiple occasions to amend the Electoral Act in every conceivable fashion. The Government does not Uke the present electoral system in Australia, notwithstanding the fact that that electoral system gave to the Government a majority in 1972 and 1974. It was a majority that I am prepared to say the Government was entitled to receive because it polled a majority of votes. Nobody who believes in substantial democracy could ever argue otherwise. 
The Government was elected twice on the present boundaries. If Government supporters are worth their salt, they will be re-elected on those same boundaries the next time the people of Australia have an opportunity to pass judgment. But Government supporters know very well that they are not worth their salt at present and the people of Australia will not return them on the next occasion. That is why the Minister for Services and Property and his colleagues are so frantic to have these boundaries. Let us put to rest the phoney attempts by the Government to create division and mischief between the Opposition parties. That division and mischief does not exist. We are jointly opposed to these boundaries. We will jointly vote against them here and we will jointly defeat them in another place. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of his earlier answers to questions asked of him by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that he accepts the findings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum in its third report, does the Prime Minister agree with the findings contained on page 33 of that report to the effect that all the directors of ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd, including by inference the managing director, share responsibility for the deliberate deception of a Minister of the Australian Government? 
-Like the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  I should like to direct my remarks to the second limb of responsibility of the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  and that is the area of consumer affairs. When the Minister was sworn into his present portfolio all the Australian States and the Federal Government had a member of the Government specifically designated as having a responsibility for consumer affairs. This development itself indicates the mounting community demand that Australian consumers should have a fairer deal and that there should be a proper voice for consumer protection demands in government. This is a trend which the Opposition, like the Government, welcomes. I hope that in the area of consumer protection objectives there will be some measure of agreement between the 2 sides of this chamber. We may differ in approach along the road to achieving our objectives but I hope that adequate laws to protect the rights of consumers are beyond argument in the political context. 
In the time available to me I should like to make a couple of remarks about what might be palled the consumer phenomenon of the past 10 or 20 years. I think it is true to say that a generation ago the concept of elaborate consumer protection laws was not given great prominence. Whilst many factors have influenced the emergence of consumerism as a public issue, not least being a more articulate community, I think one of the factors which has led to the emergence of consumer protection as a live public issue is the development of the supermarket economy in the Australian society. A generation ago when it was a habit of consumers to purchase their day to day foodstuffs and consumer goods from the corner grocer store the relationship between a seller and purchaser of consumer goods was a far more personal thing and the opportunities for on the spot ad hoc redress for a consumer who purchased from such a store, having such a relationship with the storekeeper, were much greater of course than they are in the mass supermarket economy that we have at present. It is obviously necessary, if the consumer is to receive proper value for the money expended on consumer goods, that laws exist to protect the consumer against unfair, coercive and deceptive practices. 
I think also the impact of mass advertising, particularly on television, has contributed to the emergency of consumer pressures. Whilst it is fashionable sometimes in a debate on consumer protection to criticise advertising and to point to the more extreme examples of puffing and deception that might occur in advertising, the fact remains that advertising is an integral part of the market process. The fact remains that advertising is an integral part of the market process. It does make a contribution towards the provision of information for consumers and it does facilitate the exercise of choice by the consumers. In that respect I would hope that this Parliament and the parties represented in this Parliament will continue to recognise the proper place of advertising in consumer transactions. 
On behalf of the Opposition I would like to welcome the initiative of the present Government in bringing together the many consumer groups throughout Australia which led to the formation of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations. I believe that consumer groups should have a representative body, that this body should be able to express an articulate consumer viewpoint on issues and that it ought to have the type of access to Ministers and to the Public Service that is presently enjoyed by bodies such as chambers of manufacturers and chambers of commerce. 
I would hope that in the administration of his portfolio the Minister would pursue a policy of involving consumer groups as far as possible in the development and the implementation of policies and programs. I would also like to express the hope that in implementing his policies the Minister will see the value of a consultative approach in developing consumer protection laws. By a consultative approach I mean an approach that not only involves representatives of consumer groups but also involves representatives of retailers, manufacturers, advertisers, the media and aU the other groups which are concerned in consumer transactions. 
I know that the Minister some weeks ago convened a meeting in Sydney of consumer bodies throughout Australia at which he outlined his plans for this portfolio. I am glad that the Minister convened the meeting. This was a proper thing to do and a welcome initiative to bring the Government into contact with consumer groups. I wonder, though, whether the Minister before proceeding with any further legislation in this area might consider convening a meeting which involved not only consumers but also the other interested groups which I mentioned a moment ago and which I think should be involved at every stage of developing policies to protect the consumer. I make this suggestion seriously. I think the Minister may well find if he adopts that approach that there are a greater number of manufacturers, retailers and advertisers who accept the need for effective consumers protection laws than some of the honourable members who sit behind him imagine. 
I would also like to commend to the Minister the need for a co-operative federalist approach to consumer protection legislation. I was disappointed, frankly, that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  gave only a grudging acknowledgement to the role of the States in consumer protection legislation. It is simply not on to have consumer protection legislation which effectively covers the Australian market unless there is a co-operative approach between the Federal and the State governments. The Federal Government simply does not have sufficient legislative power to cover the field. Whether honourable members opposite like that or not, it is the situation at the present time and it is likely to remain the situation for quite a while into the future. 
I believe that Australia is increasingly a national market so far as consumer transactions are concerned and obviously one needs national iniatives and a national approach to consumer protection. But unless that approach involves on a co-operative basis the State governments with their respective powers, advice facilities, expertise and experience in the area, I do not believe that the Government Will be able to develop a comprehensive and effective consumer protection POliCY 
I would also like to comment briefly on the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide about the fusion of the functions of product safety and market regulations. He gently implied a criticism of me for some remarks that I made a couple of weeks ago about the difficulties of combining in the one body the expertise required to decide whether a radiator was dangerous and the expertise to decide whether market behaviour was deceptive. I would like to remind the honourable member that the United States of America, the country whose consumer protection laws impressed him greatly, preserves a division between those two functions. On the one hand the United States Products Safety Commission deals exclusively with consumer safety and on the other hand the questions of market regulation and monitoring are the responsibility of the Federal Trade Commission which exercises functions very similar to those exercised by the Australian Trade Practices Commission. 
My final comment is that I believe the real challenges in the area of consumer protection are in providing assistance to the less articulate, the economically disadvantaged and the migrant groups in Australia. I think the Minister would agree with me that consumer protection ought not, as someone has said, become the plaything of the middle classes and that there is tremendous scope for the development of consumer protection policies which will assist the more disadvantaged in our community. I would like to thank the Minister for the courtesies he has extended to me in my capacity as the shadow Minister for Consumer Affairs since he has become the Minister 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Speaker, the Opposition supports in principle the purpose of this Bill. Honourable members will be aware that the purpose of the Bill is to provide for a referendum to amend the Constitution of the Commonwealth by inserting in the Constitution two new sections to be known, if the referendum is carried, as sections 108A and 108B. In summary, the effect of these two proposed sections is intended to clarify the power of the Commonwealth Parliament to refer powers under the Constitution to the State parliaments and, conversely, to clarify the power of the State parliaments to confer on the Commonwealth Parliament residual powers that the States have. The measure provides that the designations of power as they are described in the Bill may be on such conditions and terms as are agreed at the time when a referral takes place. 
The Opposition whilst supporting in principle the objectives of this Bill believes that, because of its unique importance to the States, it is imperative that the views of the States on the provisions of the Bill be made known. I know that on many occasions when the Opposition asks the Government to take into account the views of the States on particular measures, if the matter is within the legislative power of the Commonwealth Government the Government suggests that whilst the views of the States may be interesting and relevant, it is in no way encumbent upon this Parliament to take their views into account. I would ask the Government to consider that in respect of this Bill there is a unique State involvement as the legislation deals with the constitutional balance between the Commonwealth and the States. Nobody could logically argue that in a matter which affects the powers of the States under the Commonwealth Constitution the full views of the States ought not to be known by this Parliament. I would therefore like to make it clear at this stage that, whilst supporting the measure in principle, the Opposition does reserve the right in another place to consider any appropriate amendments that it might think it necessary to make. 
In the course of his second reading speech, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that this measure had received the unanimous support of the meeting of the Constitutional Convention in Melbourne in September. That of course is true. But, as the Prime Minister would know also, that Constitutional Convention was held in the absence of representatives of the governments of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia and also in the absence of representatives of the Opposition Parties in this Parliament. I put that matter no higher than that. I would not want the Government to draw any unnecessary conclusions from my having raised that matter. But, having regard to the Prime Minister's own remarks in his second reading speech, I think that the effect of the measure having received unanimous support at the Constitutional Convention ought to be seen in its true perspective. I would simply mention that at no stage has the Prime Minister asserted, or indeed has any representative of the Government asserted, that the specific terms of this Bill have received the total endorsement of all the States. 
The Prime Minister has rightly acknowledged, in the view of the Opposition, that the effectiveness of the proposal, if it is subsequently carried at a referendum, will depend entirely upon the goodwill existing between the Commonwealth Government and the States. For my part, on behalf of the Opposition, I welcome this acknowledgement from the Prime Minister, belated though it may be, that it is necessary in constitutional matters to have co-operation and goodwill between the Commonwealth and the States. This is the argument that the Opposition has been putting for years. It is an argument that we hope will be accepted by those who sit opposite in a fuller sense than perhaps it has been in the past. 
Indeed, our federalism policy recently announced, and which has drawn a very cerebral reaction from many members of the Government, is based on the absolute belief that a partnership should exist between the Commonwealth and the States. The theory behind the Bill which the Parliament is now debating is a most attractive one. That theory is that there should be a clear and unambiguous facility under the Constitution for an interchange of power between the Commonwealth and the States. This is a theory and a principle with which the Opposition does not argue. However, we would argue, and the House also should be reminded, that unless the legal and constitutional co-operation which is inherent in this proposal is matched by a financial partnership between the Commonwealth and the States, the objective of co-operative federalism of which the Prime Minister spoke in his second reading speech will not be achieved. A legal power in a government to provide a service is no power at all unless the Government with responsibility to provide that service has the financial resources to meet the obligation. 
That in essence has been the dilemma of State and local governments in Australia for many years. It is a dilemma which the Opposition has recognised in the recently announced federalism policy which has drawn such interest and attention from members of the Government. It is also a policy which has drawn interest and attention from State and local government bodies throughout Australia. They see in it the most fundamental recognition by any political party or grouping of political parties in Australia of trie need to have a partnership between the arms of government in Australia, and a partnership which involves not only a legal distribution of power but also an effective distribution of the financial muscle required to discharge responsibilities which flow from a legal distribution of power. During the course of my remarks I shall raise a couple of points which the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  may care to clarify in his reply. Clause 2 (2.) of the Bill reads as follows: 
The power of the Parliament of the Commonwealth to designate a matter under this section is not limited by the provisions of this Constitution other than this section. 
It has occurred to members of the Opposition and to others that in the event of this amendment to the Constitution being carried at a referendum there could be read into this provision a possibility that, for example, the provisions of section 92 or section 99 of the Constitution would cease to have the force and effect which they presently have. I would like the honourable gentleman to give us the benefit of his views on this matter. As I said at the outset in my remarks on this measure, the Opposition while supporting the principle involved in the Bill and while acknowledging- as the Prime Minister pointed out during his second reading speech- that during the past few years there have been general expressions of support for the idea contained in this measure from various State governments, State premiers and political parties across the whole spectrum in Australia, is very strongly of the view that until the attitude of the 6 State governments on the specific terms of this Bill are made known to the Parliament then the Bill ought not to be present to this House for a second reading vote. 
I know that members of the Government may well say that the Opposition is once again indulging in obstructive tactics and that we are not genuine in our expressions of support for the principle which underlies this Bill. But as honourable members will be aware, this measure was introduced into the House only last week. It is an important measure. It is a measure which relates to the constitutional balance between the Commonwealth and the States. The Prime Minister during his second reading speech was not able to establish to the satisfaction of the Opposition why it was necessary or why it might be necessary for a vote to be taken on this Bill in advance of detailed responses from the States being obtained. Therefore, I think the Opposition is entitled to ask the Government to explain why it might be necessary to take a second reading vote on this measure only a little over a week after it was first introduced into this House. A measure which might ultimately lead to a constitutional amendment is no ordinary measure. It is a measure which, if carried into force by vote of the people, will have a long and far-reaching effect on the respective rights and responsibilities not only of this Parliament but also of the Parliaments of the various States. So in those circumstances the Opposition believes that it is entitled to ask the Government and this House to consider whether this Bill should be voted on until the views of the States on the measure are obtained. 
I have no argument with the Government that over the past few years expressions of support for the principle behind this Bill have been given. But what I put to the Government and to the Attorney-General is that it is not unreasonable that a Bill that goes to the very essence of the constitutional relationship between the Commonwealth and the States should be considered carefully by the States. They are entitled to think about the ramifications of the Bill. They are entitled to have their views communicated to the Parliament. That is the view which the Opposition takes. It is a view which we think is entirely responsible and consonant with preserving a proper balance between the roles of the Commonwealth Government and of the State governments in this federation. 
During his remarks the Prime Minister mentioned a number of matters which he thought might become the subject of a referral of power from the State governments to the Federal Government. For my part, and expressing very much a personal view, I can certainly find no quarrel with the proposition which the Prime Minister put in respect of several of those matters. For example, I find it anomalous that the Commonwealth should have a power in respect of family law matters covering divorce, property rights arising out of divorce situations, marriage and so forth, whereas the States retain legal responsibility for such matters as legitimacy and adoption. For my part, I think there should be a single, coherent body of family law in Australia. I can see very persuasive arguments for that. I can also see certain attractions in the concept of having a uniform defamation law. I can find very good reasons, as no doubt the Government has found good reasons, for supporting such a concept. I think honourable members on this side of the House would be interested to know of the types of powers the present Commonwealth Government might feel could be the subject of a referral from the Commonwealth Parliament to the States. 
If one looks at the record of the present Government since it came to office in December 1972, one finds that as far as interchange of responsibility between the Commonwealth and the States is concerned, the tendency has been for it to be very much a one-way traffic. If the Government is really genuine in claiming that the purpose of this measure is to facilitate the exchange of powers between the Commonwealth and the States, I think we are entitled to ask it to give us some indication of those areas where it believes there might be a transfer from the Commonwealth to the States rather than giving us a number of examples where it believes the powers could all be referred from the State governments to the Federal Government. I, and I am sure other honourable gentlemen who sit on this side of the House, do not believe that the Constitution which was adopted in 1901 is necessarily up to date and totally satisfactory for our conditions in 1975. It is for that reason that the Opposition supports in principle the idea of removing any ambiguity which may presently exist in relation to the legislative power of the State governments and of the Federal Government to effect an interchange of powers. 
As I said earlier, what we are interested in seeing and what I think a number of the States would be interested in seeing is whether the present Commonwealth Government is prepared to match a legal distribution of power between the Commonwealth and the States with a financial distribution of power between the Commonwealth and the States. The history of the Australian Federation during the past 10 years has been one of a gradual transfer of power from the States to the Federal Government, yet during that period of time that transfer of power has on no occasion been facilitated by an amendment to the Constitution, except in respect of the referendum to give the Commonwealth power over Aboriginal affairs. So over the past 10 years we have seen a most substantial shift of power from the States to the Federal Government. This has not occurred as a result of any constitutional alteration, except in the case of responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. 
What that illustrates is that the financial distribution between the Commonwealth and the States is as critical as the legal distribution of power. The experience of the States during the past decade in the Australian Federation is that whilst they have been left with de jure responsibility for particular areas of government services, because of their financial starvation they have been forced again and again to hand powers over to the Federal Government. 
Whilst it is an attractive proposition to remove legal doubts regarding the capacity of this Parliament and the Parliaments of the States to transfer power it really avoids the issue. The real issue is whether in 1975 all political parties in Australia are prepared to accept that we are a federation, that we are going to remain a federation, and that we are not going to effectively solve many of the great social and economic problems we have unless there is an effective partnership between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Later on today this House will be debating a subject called legal aid. Remarks will be made during that debate but I cannot help but say that in the area of legal aid, as in many other areas, unless all political parties in Australia are prepared to accept the need for co-operative federalism, the need for a partnership between the Federal Government and the State governments, we simply will not be able to deliver to the Australian people the sort of services they are entitled to receive and there will be increasing dissatisfaction and discontent in the Australian community about the inability or incapacity of Federal and State governments to co-operate. I believe that the community is growing increasingly unhappy about friction between the Federal Government and the State governments and local government. Unless we can create a climate of partnership, a climate of co-operative effort between the 3 arms of government in Australia, we are not going to match the aspirations and expectations of the Australian people. 
If a person living in any part of Australia has a problem, be it a housing problem, be it a legal aid problem, be he a consumer who needs protection, be he a person who is in need of social services, whatever the problem may be, he is not interested in whether it is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government or the State governments to provide the necessary services; he is interested in receiving those services. How many of us in our capacity as members of this House have had constituents come to us with a problem and give us a saga of being shunted from State office to another State office, and then from a State office to a Federal office, and then when they got to the first Federal office they had been sent to another Federal office? Constituents who have had to go through that sort of experience are entitled to be cranky about governmental arrangements in Australia. They are entitled to say to politicians on both sides of politics in Australia: 'Why do" you not sort out a sensible co-operative balance between the Commonwealth, the States and local government?' 
Unless political parties and governments in Australia are prepared at many levels to pool their legislative powers, unless they are prepared to co-operate in providing services on a one stop basis to the people of Australia, there is going to be continuing and growing cynicism in Australia. It is the recognition of the need for that type of approach which has prompted the Oppositionit finds expression in our policy on federalism- to declare quite affirmatively and without ambiguity that we stand for an effective partnership in government in Australia. We stand for an arrangement whereby all arms of government in Australia have a share of income tax revenue. We stand for an arrangement between the Federal Government, State governments and local government whereby each of them has sufficient financial resources to discharge their respective responsibilities. Our policy is designed to end much of the confrontation and friction which has existed in Australia with increasing intensity since the end of the Second World War. It is a policy which is designed not to entrench for all time the division of powers and responsibility between the Federal Government, State governments and local government. 
There is nothing inconsistent in our approach to inter-governmental relationships with the sort of transfer and referral of powers envisaged by the measure we are debating now. Above all our policy towards federalism is this: It is all very well legally to divide power and responsibility in a federation but unless you give to each of the elements of government in a federation financial power to discharge their responsibilities the legal division will be illusionary and a fiction in many cases. So the Opposition again says that it supports in principle the idea behind the Bill. Its supports in principle the removal of any doubt regarding the constitutional capacity of the State governments and the Federal Government to exchange powers. We believe that this is a measure which uniquely affects the rights of the States and therefore the States have a right to communicate their views not only on the principle involved but also on the means by which the Government has chosen to implement that principle. We do not assert that there is necessarily anything wrong with the method the Government has chosen for implementing the principle. What we do assert is that because it goes so fundamentally to the rights of the States they are entitled to express their views to this Parliament before the measure is passed. We support the measure in principle but we reserve the right in another place to modify it when the views of the States on its detailed provisions are made known to us and to this Parliament. 
-The House now turns its mind to the Legal Aid Bill which was introduced by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  some three to four months ago. I very much regret having to say at the outset of the debate that the measure of unanimity of opinion reached on the Bill we have just disposed of may not be present in the debate on this BUI. This is due, in the view of the Opposition, to the Attorney-General having embarked in the past few days on an irresponsible campaign to deliberately misrepresent the Opposition 's attitude to legal aid. Let me make it crystal clear at the outset of this debate that the Opposition is not opposed to the provision of adequate legal aid facilities in Australia. For the Attorney-General or any other member of the Government to represent to this House or to the Australian people that we are opposed to it is completely irresponsible. Further, for the Attorney-General to threaten to treat a referral of this Bill to a select committee of both Houses or to a Senate committee as a failure to pass within the terms of section 57 of the Constitution is to treat an important social service, legal aid, as a simple tactical political tool. It is a device which I think all honourable members of this House ought to deplore. 
The Attorney-General's campaign of misrepresentation reached its irresponsible heights yesterday during question time when in response to a question, no doubt a Dorothy Dixer, a term well known to all honourable members, the Attorney-General said: 
The fact is that the Opposition parties do not believe in legal aid. 
There it is in black and white. That is the extent of the Attorney-General's misrepresentation. He then went on to say: 
The Opposition spokesman on matters affecting the Department of the Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  is on record as having said that he opposes in principle the Australian Legal Aid Office. That means he opposes legal aid. 
That is what the Attorney-General said. What he is inviting this House to accept is that because somebody may have expressed opposition in principle to a particular method of providing legal aid- and I do not concede for a moment what  Senator Greenwood  's views may be on this matter- it follows automatically that he is opposed to the concept of providing legal aid. That is the level of the misrepresentation that has occurred already and no doubt that misrepresentation will be continued during the course of this debate. 
The fact is that the Government is giving all the indications of using legal aid as part of its tactical ploys. It is bringing legal aid very much into the political arena. The Opposition hopes that debate in this chamber on the provision of legal aid services- we would hope that there is unanimity of agreement in principle that there ought to be adequate legal aid services in Australiawill be a sensible one and a debate which takes account of quite significantly different attitudes as to the manner in which legal aid can be provided. 
We support legal aid and we have made that clear before. We make it clear again and nothing that we will do during the course of the debate can be honestly represented as being other than total support for the provision of adequate legal aid services. But the Government apparently intends to argue that, just because doubts may be expressed about the method it has chosen to implement legal aid, those who have expressed the doubts are therefore against legal aid. Does the Attorney-General therefore argue that his 3 Senate colleagues,  Senator Button, Senator Everett  and  Senator Grimes,  are opposed in principle to national compensation? Has the Attorney-General forgotten that when the National Compensation Bill was brought before this House and gagged through it with not even a semblance of a decent Committee debate, that Bill, by resolution of the Senate, was then referred to a Senate committee? Has he forgotten that that Senate committee, after a lengthy examination, produced a report to the Senate in which it recommended massive changes to the National Compensation Bill? Has he forgotten that the 3 Labor members of that Senate committee joined in the recommendations? Does he argue that because they did not like the method the Government had chosen for the provision of national compensation they are against the principle of national compensation? I wonder whether the Attorney-General really does believe that? 
That is the type of argument that the AttorneyGeneral invites the House and the Australian people to accept in respect of legal aid. As far as the Opposition is concerned he is not going to be able to get away with that; he is not going to be able to misrepresent our position on legal aid and he is not going to be able to tell the Australian people that we are opposed to the provision of adequate legal aid services. 
Why is the Attorney-General so concerned at the prospect of the Legal Aid Bill being referred to a committee of both Houses of this Parliament? Does he not want the Bill scrutinised? Is he scared that the same embarrassing result might come out of a Senate or joint committee examination of the Legal Aid Bill as came out of the Senate committee examination of the National Compensation Bill? It is well known in this place that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in particular, was very unhappy with some of the conclusions reached by the Senate committee which dealt with the National Compensation Bill. He was very unhappy at the fact that three of the people who shared those conclusions were members of his own Party. Is the AttorneyGeneral concerned that the same situation may arise out of the Legal Aid Bill? 
What the Opposition proposes- it will be the subject of a formal amendment which I will move in a moment- is that the Bill be referred to a joint select committee of both Houses of the Parliament for inquiry into and report upon a number of matters. Having said that we immediately hear a vitriolic and cerebral response from honourable members on the Government side. They do not want the Bill carefully examined. Of course not. They regard the Government's proposals on legal aid as sacrosanct. A few moments ago the AttorneyGeneral was extolling, in the constitutional context, the virtues of flexibility and of having an open mind on change. We invite the Government to have an open mind on changes to this Legal Aid Bill because its proposals already have come under attack from a number of people whose respectability in and knowledge of the field of legal aid cannot seriously be called in question. Therefore the Opposition wants the provisions of this Bill to be scrutinised by a committee of both Houses of Parliament. For once we would hope that the Government would give members of this chamber, members of the House of Representatives, members of what in recent days has so often been described as the popular House and the people's House, an opportunity of sitting on that committee. We hope that the Government will adopt a flexible attitude to our proposals and establish a joint committee of both Houses. It is the Opposition's intention to move accordingly. 
We hope that the Government will see the wisdom of submitting its legal aid proposals to an examination by a joint committee of both Houses. Let me state at the outset that the proposal of the Opposition, if adopted by this Par.liament will in no way prejudice the current operation of the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Attorney-General knows that. He knows that nothing we propose to do Will upset the present operation of the Australian Legal Aid Office or the provision of facilities that that Legal Aid Office is presently providing. For any Government speakers to argue otherwise would be to continue the pattern of misrepresentation that the Attorney-General has already commenced in respect of this measure. 
I think it is appropriate at the outset of this debate for me to state a few principles of the Opposition's attitude towards legal aid because, I believe, the Opposition shares with the Government a commitment to the provision of adequate legal aid facilities in Australia. Obviously, a commitment of this nature must be based on an approach of principle. I believe that a number of principles are involved. I do not regard them as exhaustive and I do not regard them as totally definitive of the Opposition's attitude, but they give some indication of our thinking on the type and the nature of the provision of legal aid facilities in Australia. 
Firstly, we believe that no person should be denied the benefit of legal advice or assistance through lack of financial resources. Secondly, we believe that the existence of legal aid facilities should be made known to persons who might need assistance from those facilities. Thirdly, we believe that the administration of legal aid facilities should as far as possible be independent of government control. Fourthly, we believe that the provision of legal aid should take proper account of a person's right to have individual and confidential legal advice. The lawyer-client relationship should be precisely the same whether or not the client is in receipt of legal aid. The provision of legal aid facilities should not create a situation of first and second-class legal advice. Because a person has to receive legal aid the relationship that he might otherwise enjoy with his solicitor or barrister should in no way be diminished by the fact that he does not have the financial resources on his own account to engage a solicitor or counsel. Fifthly, we believe that there should be clear eligibility criteria for the provision of legal aid services in Australia. 
We do not believe in an open ended commitment to legal aid any more than the Government at the present time believes in an open ended commitment to other social services in Australia. For anybody to suggest that there should be an open ended commitment to legal aid is to embark upon a path of financial irresponsibility. We also believe that there must be a proper acknowledgement, in the provision of legal aid services, of the role of the private legal profession in delivering those services. The Opposition believes that the Commonwealth Government has a legitimate and proper role in the provision of legal aid services. We do not believe that the problems of providing an effective legal aid service will be solved simply by leaving the matter to the States- not because we believe that the attempts made by the States over the years have not contained a great deal of merit and have not contributed a great deal to the provision of legal aid services, but the fact is that the Commonwealth has a direct constitutional legal responsibility in a number of areas. Therefore it has a responsibility to provide legal assistance to those persons who need assistance in respect of the operation of Federal law. Perhaps most importantly of all, the Commonwealth is in a position to support financially the provision of legal aid services. It follows from that that it must have a very direct interest and responsibility in the provision of legal aid services throughout Australia. 
The Legal Aid Bill which we are now debating represents, as I understand it, the end result of the Government's deliberations on the best method by which it can give legislative effect to the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office. Honourable members will be aware that under the Legal Aid Bill provision is made for a board of management for the Legal Aid Office and the establishment of a legal aid commission. Provision is also made for legal consultative committees to advise and be responsible for the provision of legal aid services at a local level. 
There are a number of general criticisms and doubts that may be expressed about the Bill. These are the sorts of doubts that the Opposition hopes that a joint committee of the 2 Houses will have an opportunity of examining. Firstly- I invite honourable gentlemen opposite to examine this- there must be serious doubts as to the constitutionality of the functions conferred by the Bill on the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Attorney-General knows that the Commonwealth Government has no express power to make laws with respect to legal aid and advice. Certainly the incidental power under the Constitution would be some help in providing a constitutional basis base for the provisions of clause 6 of the Bill. I invite honourable members to examine the terms of clause 6, which is the clause setting out that the functions of the Office are to provide legal assistance in accordance with the Act. Then it goes on to spell out the matters in respect of which legal assistance will be provided. It spells out a number of circumstances and concludes with the words 'where it is within the power of the Parliament to provide for the giving of the legal assistance'. Those words in themselves acknowledge the tenuous constitutional base on which this Bill rests. 
Ii is also true, in the view of the Opposition and also in the view of other persons interested in legal aid faculties, that the scheme proposed by the Bill duplicates existing services. It duplicates in many respects the existing State legal aid committees. It duplicates voluntary legal aid schemes, in many cases operated by younger members of the legal profession who provide duty and after hours services for persons in need of general legal advice. In the Australian Capital Territory it certainly duplicates the excellent legal aid scheme operated by the private profession in conjunction with the AttorneyGeneral's Department. It duplicates specific provision which is already made under Commonwealth Acts in respect of the provision of legal aid where Federal law operates. 
I draw the attention of the House to the provisions contained in the Family Law Act, the Trade Practices Act and the conciliation and arbitration legislation where provision is already made for the granting of legal aid. These are matters of duplication. These are matters perhaps of overlapping bureaucracy. These are matters of additional cost which ought to be taken into account in determining whether the Parliament supports this Bill. These are matters that can be investigated if the Bill goes to a committee. They are matters that will not be investigated if the Bill does not go to a committee. Once this Bill passes into law the deficiencies of it will be entrenched in the facilities which it sets up to provide legal aid, and much of the duplication, much of the additional costs, much of the lack of independence from bureaucratic control which concerns the Opposition will then be allowed to go on unhindered. 
One aspect of this Bill that concerns us greatly is the question of cost. One cannot talk about the provision of legal aid services or in fact the provision of any other services by government without being concerned about cost. Under the scheme proposed in the Bill the cost of legal aid could become unlimited. This Parliament must concern itself with the costs of legal aid. This Government must be concerned that people who need legal aid receive it. Equally, this Parliament must be concerned that people who are not entitled to legal aid and who can afford to pay for their own lawyers do not receive legal aid. 
There are certain passages and provisions in this Bill which concern the Opposition and which lead us to believe that in some respects there could be an open ended commitment to the provision of legal aid support. Overseas and domestic experience have shown that the cost of legal aid can grow very quickly. For example, in the United Kingdom for the financial year 1969-70 the total cost of legal aid was Stg8, 17 1,000. By 1974-75 it had grown to f Stg30,076,000 which is almost a four-fold increase between 1970 and 1975. Already the Government's allocation for legal aid totals $16m. It may well be that the commitment that this Parliament should make to legal aid is a very, very substantial sum, but Opposition wants clear criteria as to eligibility to receive legal aid. The Opposition also wants a system in the provision of legal aid in which there is no unnecessary duplication and no unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic expense. 
A number of more specific criticisms have been made about this Bill, not by the Opposition but by persons both in the practising and academic legal profession who are vitally concerned in and very experienced with the provision of legal aid services. This Bill has been described by one legal correspondent in an Australian newspaper as one which pleases only the bureaucrats. There has been criticism of the lack of independence of the Australian Legal Aid Office from the Government. If one looks at clause 13, which is the operative clause so far as the determination of policy is concerned, one finds in subclause ( 1 ) and in sub-clause (2) that a lot of deference is paid to consultation between the Board of Management and the Attorney-General, but when one looks at sub-clause (3) one finds the following: 
If the Attorney-General and the Board are unable to reach agreement, the Governor-General may, by order, determine the policy to be followed by the Board in relation to that matter. 
What of course that means is that if there is disagreement between the Board of Management and the Government the Government will prevail. This, of course, follows a pattern that the Government has imposed in other legislation. I have already referred in this House to the power that the Attorney-General has under the Trade Practices Act to override decisions of the Trade Practices Commission when it pleases him and I refer honourable members again to that type of provision which is to be found in this Bill. The Government's own law and poverty commissioner, Professor Ronald Sackville, recommended that there should be established an independent legal aid commission. I refer honourable members to page 170 of Professor Sackville 's report on Legal Aid in Australia under the heading Legal Services Commission. It reads: 
The implementation of a national program of legal aid should be the responsibility of a Commission established by statute and  enjoying  independence from Government. 
Certainly the Legal Aid Bill we are debating establishes a legal aid commission. It establishes the Commission under clause 17 but then it confers upon that Commission only advisory power. If one looks at the various sub-clauses of clause 1 7 one will find again and again references to the Legal Aid Commission giving advice to the Attorney-General, but of course the real power will still rest with the Government. The independent commission having executive control over provision of legal aid services in Australia, recommended by Professor Sackville and supported by the Law Council of Australia in its comments on this Bill, is certainly not to be the policy of the Government because the Government having established an apparatus to dispense legal aid, having established the bureaucracy, having said that the Legal Aid Office shall be controlled by the Board of Management then is not prepared to give to the people who are to run legal aid services in Australia the final power to determine matters of policy. No member on this side of the House would dispute that the Government should retain financial control as far as the provision of legal aid services is concerned. Only this Parliament should decide how much money is to be provided for legal aid, but what we argue is that having made an allocation of funds for legal aid it ought to be the responsibility of the people who are administering the legal aid services to decide the manner in which that money is to be dispensed. 
We are certainly very concerned, as others are, at the lack of independence of the ALAO from the Government and also the lack of real power and teeth which has been given to the Legal Aid Commission. I think the Government ought to take very much into account the remarks of Professor Sackville on this subject. If one looks at overseas experience one finds that only last year in the United States of America the Legal Services Corporation Act was passed setting up an independent corporation to take over responsibility for legal aid. It had been found in the United States that the fragmented system of the provision of legal aid in which government interference occurred on many occasions was unsatisfactory and that it was desirable to establish an independent corporation to take over the administration of legal aid services in the United States. 
I would like to make a few concluding remarks about the role of the legal profession in the provision of legal aid services. It is, of course, very fashionable when talking about legal aid services to take a lot of sideswipes at the legal profession. The Attorney-General himself did it a moment ago by interjection. Of course the legal profession should not have all the say in the provision of legal aid services. Of course there should be non-lawyers- and plenty of them- involved in decisions both at a government level and at a local level so far as legal aid is concerned. However, I think the House ought to remember that the legal profession does have experience in the provision of legal aid services and must play a very substantial role in any system devised for the provision of legal aid, because however much people may take sideswipes at the legal profession the fact is that an independent legal profession is an important safeguard of individual rights in a democracy. The Opposition certainly would not like to see any scheme which did not pay not overdue but proper regard to the maintenance and integrity of an independent legal profession so far as providing legal aid is concerned. Perhaps I should quote from a Press release issued by  Mr O  'Leary, the  President  of the Law Council of Australia. It was issued in August this year in conjunction with detailed submissions made by the Council to the Government on the provisions of the Legal Aid Bill. 
It reads: 'It is easy to characterise the legal professions views as self interested', said  Mr O  'Leary, 'but that entirely overlooks the fact that the services being delivered are legal services in which the legal profession is the skilled body within the community.' 'Legal aid was not invented recently,' he said. 'Since 1966 the Law Council has been pressing successive Attorneys-General to expand legal aid services by making available federal funds. The multiplicity of voluntary legal aid services started and administered by members of the legal profession is adequate testimony to the public concern of the legal profession. ' 
Having quoted from  Mr 0'Leary's  remarks I remind the House that the submissions of the Law Council of Australia on the detailed provisions of this Bill ought not to be construed by the Government as an uncritical acceptance of the concept of an Australian Legal Aid Office because the submissions of the Council were made within the parameters of the Bill and the Attorney-General would be aware that back in May the Law Council accepted that the Government had made a political decision to establish the Legal Aid Office. Therefore any submissions it had made on the provisions of the Legal Aid Bill ought to be looked at on the basis of that assumption by the Council and ought not to be taken as an automatic and uncritical acceptance that the Council, in fact the legal profession, totally supports the concept of an Australian Legal Aid Office. Therefore, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be referred to a joint select committee of both Houses to inquire into and report upon: 
the adequacy of existing legal aid services in Australia; 
whether the provision made in the Bill is the most effective, efficient and economical method of providing legal advice and assistance; 
which persons should be entitled to legal aid and what should be the basis on which advice and assistance is provided; 
whether proper protection of the individual's right to obtain independent and confidential legal advice and assistance is provided for in existing legal aid arrangements and under the Bill; 
the extent of duplication in the provision of legal advice and assistance throughout Australia and the means by which unnecessary duplication can be avoided; (0 the likely cost of providing legal aid services in 
Australia over the next five years and subsequently; and 
the clauses of the Bill'. 
In moving that amendment I ask honourable members opposite to treat it for what it is, that is, a serious attempt to take an intelligent look at the provision of legal aid services in Australia. It is not designed to obstruct, delay or dismantle - 
-The Attorney-General and honourable members who sit behind him know that this proposal of the Opposition will not affect the current operation. of the Australian Legal Aid Office. They know that nothing we are proposing in this amendment will interfere with the provision of legal aid services which are presently available. We want an inquiry which will enable State governments, welfare agencies and the legal profession to put their views to a committee, preferably of both houses of Parliament for once. I appeal to Government supporters in this place to give members of the House of Representatives seats on a parliamentary committee. Let us not leave all of these parliamentary inquiries to members of another place. Let us give the members of the House of Representatives an opportunity to take a long and serious look at the provision of legal aid services, which the Opposition fully supports. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the first thing I want to say about this Bill- 
I wish to make a short contribution to the debate on Electoral Bill (No. 3) which, as honourable members will be aware, proposes the introduction of optional preferential voting for House of Representatives elections. I think all honourable members will agree that the aim of any system of voting in single member constituencies should be to ensure that the victorious candidate receives the support of at least 50 per cent of the formal votes cast either by first or subsequent preference. I invite any subsequent speakers from the Government side in this debate to challenge that approach as being other than a reasonable approach to a democratic system of election in a single member constituency. Inevitably, in a discussion on optional preferential voting we get into an argument as to whether it is some kind of disguised first past the post voting. I agree with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  with the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and with other honourable members who have participated in this debate that it would not be correct to say that optional preferential voting simply equals first past the post voting. I agree with that. 
What I put to the House- this is where I disagree with members on the Government side- is that it is quite possible and not, as the Leader of the House said when introducing this Bill, purely hypothetical, for optional preferential voting to have precisely the same result as first past the post voting. I shall trouble the House with an example. If the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  will not mind my using their names in this example I shall give the House a simple illustration of how this can occur. Let us say that we have a constituency of 100 people and that 100 valid votes are cast at a poll. Candidate Garland, as I shall call him, receives 41 of those votes by way of first preference, candidate Riordan receives 39 and- I will be modest- candidate Howard received only 20 votes. Of the 20 people who voted for Howard, the problem is that only ten decided to express a preference. They are given an option of whether to express a preference. Half, that is ten, declined to exercise their preference. Of the ten who express a preference, six of them decide to give their second preference to Garland and four of them decide to give their second preference to Riordan. So Garland ends up with 47 votes and Riordan with 43 votes. Garland is declared the winner. Of course, by way of first or subsequent preference, Garland has received only 47 per cent of the vote. In other words, 53 per cent of the people who voted in that poll did not want Garland although he is declared elected. 
The Minister had interjected but he cannot gainsay the fact that if we have an optional preferential system, if we have 3 candidates, and if only half of the number of persons who voted for the third candidate express a preference, it is possible for the victorious candidate to be elected with less than 50 per cent of the primary or subsequent preference votes of the people taking part in the poll. That was precisely the same effect as a first past the post system. The objection held to first past the post voting in this country is that it leads to the election of minority governments. It leads to the election of candidates, in single member seats, in respect of whom more than 50 per cent of people have cast adverse votes. That, in essence, is the basis of our objection to this system of voting. The Leader of the House in his remarks when introducing this legislation stated: 
It is true that if all voters deliberately refrained from expressing any preferences beyond the first preference, the result under optional preferential voting . . . would be the same as in a first past the post system. 
I put it to the House that the Leader of the House should have further qualified those remarks by saying that if a sufficient number of voters in an optional preferential system refrained from expressing a preference, the result would be the same because the example I have given to the House shows precisely the same effect in that it leads to the election of a person who has received less than 50 per cent of the formal vote. The Leader of the House in his remarks went on to say that the proposition he put was purely hypothetical because it has not eventuated in elections under the optional preferential system in Australia in the past and that it was not likely to eventuate in the future. I very seriously challenge that proposition of the Leader of the House. Experience with optional preferential voting in Australia is extremely limited. To suggest that the sort of occurrence which I have outlined will not eventuate in the future is an extremely bold proposition. 
The other remark I make is that the introduction of optional preferential voting reduces the influences of minority parties. That may be a desirable political objective but it is not necessarily consonant with a democratic voting system to reduce the influence of minority parties. The final question I ask the Government is: If it is wrong to compel people to exercise a preference beyond their first preference, why is it not wrong to compel people to vote? I find a logical inconsistency in saying that we cannot compel people to exercise a second or subsequent preference but that we can compel people to vote. If this Government is really consistent and if it really believes that we ought not to compel people to vote beyond a certain preference, it ought to examine its fundamental commitment to compulsory voting because there is a very strong and logical inconsistency in the approach which it takes. 
-Briefly, I would like the indulgence of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  to make it perfectly clear that whilst the Opposition can in no way oppose the altered administrative arrangements under the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation, in the event of a change of government it is the intention of a Liberal-National Country Party government to reverse this Government's decision and to return administrative control of ASIO to the Attorney-General, for reasons that were adequately canvassed during the course of the debate. 
-The House is debating 3 measures which are very directly related the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) and the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. The Opposition will not oppose the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill or the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill. I shall shortly explain the Opposition's attitude towards the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2). The purpose of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill is to provide that the recently appointed Director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation,  Mr Justice  Woodward, should continue to enjoy the rank and status that he enjoyed as a judge prior to his appointment as the Director of ASIO and in all respects to preserve his position having regard to his previous judicial status. The Opposition has absolutely no quarrel with this provision. I would like to take the opportunity of wishing the new Director of ASIO well in his very important and sensitive task. 
The second measure involves an increase in the number of judges to be appointed to the Industrial Court. The Opposition has some real reservations, and perhaps before replying to our remarks on this measure the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will reflect that in 1973, when his colleague the then Minister for Labor and Immigration who is now the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  introduced amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it was the intention of the Government then so to amend the Act as to allow it to appoint an unlimited number of judges to the Industrial Court. On that occasion the Government ultimately settled, under protest, for an amendment moved in the Senate whereby the number of additional appointments to the bench of the Commonwealth Industrial Court was limited to two. Yet the Opposition must draw the attention of the House to the fact that when the 1973 amendment was proposed by the Minister the effective strength of the Commonwealth Industrial Court was, I understand, five, in that two of the full-time members of that Court were then engaged in a full-time capacity on other matters. Of course on that occasion there was a persuasive argument for increasing the number of judges to sit on the bench of the court. 
Yet on this occasion no explanation is given of why the number of persons on the court should be increased to nine. The Opposition is far from satisfied that the Government has convincingly explained to the House a justification for having an Industrial Court of 9 judges. The Opposition would in no circumstances oppose legislation to appoint an adequate number of judges for any 
Commonwealth court, but like any responsible Opposition we must have regard to the number and frequency of judicial appointments. Of course it has been a feature of this Government to make a large number of judicial appointments. The Attorney-General himself will be aware of proposals of his to appoint 30 federal judges to the soon to be operative Family Court of Australia. So I say at the outset that the Opposition is concerned that the Commonwealth Industrial Court may not have a sufficient work load to justify the appointment of an additional judge. 
I understand from my colleague the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  that information has been sought in another place from the Government regarding the work load of the Commonwealth Industrial Court so that the Opposition may be in a position to assess whether it should support the amendment proposed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is the Opposition's view and intention that whilst it will not vote against Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) in this House it reserves the right to take a different attitude in another place in the light of its assessment of the information provided by the Government in response to questions asked in another place. 
Honourable members will be aware that quite apart from the effect of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill, which I dealt with a few moments ago, by administrative arrangements control of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has been transferred from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister. During the course of this debate the Opposition would like to have an explanation from the Government as to why this has occurred. Honourable members will also be aware that the effect of the third Bill that we are considering, that is the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill, is likewise to effect a transfer of administrative control from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister. The Opposition, whilst it will not oppose the third Bill- of course it cannot oppose the administrative changes which have brought about a transfer of control over ASIO from the Attorney-General to the Prime Ministernonetheless is curious as to why this has occurred. No convincing explanation was given by the Prime Minister during his second reading speech on the Bill as to why administrative control should be transferred from the AttorneyGeneral. The Opposition takes the view that the rights of individuals, which are so fundamentally touched by any method of telephone tapping, as it is commonly known, by any method of telecommunications interception, ought ideally to be within the responsibility of the Government's first law officer; that is, the Attorney-General. 
Honourable members, and the AttorneyGeneral himself, will recall that during debate on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill the Opposition moved an amendment to provide that discretion as to whether a decision fell within a classified area ought not to be the responsibility of the Minister who wanted the material classified but rather should be a matter for the discretion of the Attorney-General. The Opposition adheres strongly to the view that the first law officer of the Crown has a responsibility to give general legal advice to the Government. Matters which affect the individual rights of citizens are matters which ought to fall within the province of the Attorney-General. One is prompted to inquire why the Prime Minister finds it necessary to transfer administrative control over ASIO and authority to tap telephones from the Attorney-General to himself. 
I think honourable members know that the Prime Minister, because of the heavy commitments of the person occupying that office, will not be able to give sufficient individual and personal attention to applications for permission to intercept telephone calls. I do not think I would be expressing a view contrary to that of anybody in this House if I said that the tapping of telephones by any government agency is a matter in respect of which permission should not be given lightly. 
It needs the closest scrutiny. I thank the honourable member for Corangamite for reminding me of that. This question affects fundamentally the rights of citizens. I think all honourable members should take a particular interest in legislation which deals with this matter. The Opposition is concerned that when an application is made for permission to intercept telephone messages that application ought to receive careful and responsible consideration from a Minister of the government of the day. Without reflecting in any way on the integrity or judgment of any member of the civil service to whom responsibility of necessity would be given if the matter were within the control of the Prime Minister, we believe that such a matter ought to be one for individual ministerial discretion. We therefore view with some concern the proposal of the Government to transfer this authority from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister. We question the absence of reasons given by the 
Prime Minister. Whilst it is not the intention of the Opposition to oppose the transfer in respect of telephone message interception, we nonetheless enter our concern and our reservation. 
This transfer is in the nature of an administrative arrangement. The Opposition takes the view that it ought not to oppose an administrative arrangement of that nature which is proposed by the Government. But of course it does follow a trend which emerged some months ago when the Government introduced a small measure dealing with the office of Parliamentary Counsel in which it was proposed that the control of Parliamentary Counsel be transferred from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister. We on this side of the House cannot understand why the Prime Minister wants to take more responsibilities unto himself. I do not think anybody would disagree with the proposition that the office of Prime Minister is an extremely busy and burdensome job. For the Prime Minister to have any real interest in a matter such as whether permission should be given to tap telephones, his work load would have to be a lot lighter than it is today. That is why we are concerned about the proposal of the Government to transfer the authority from the Attorney-General. We wonder whether the Prime Minister may be losing some confidence in his colleague the Attorney-General because absolutely no explanation was given during the course of the Prime Minister's second reading speech as to why this change should come about. 
The Opposition will support the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill. We believe, in short, that the recently appointed director of that organisation, and any subsequent director of the organisation who might hold judicial office, should not by reason of that appointment lose his rank and status as a judge. We will therefore support that Bill. 
We will not oppose the second reading of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, but I emphasise again that the Opposition reserves the right when this Bill comes before another place to take a different attitude. We are of the opinion, on the basis of information and also our own assessment of the situation, that there is no justification for the appointment of an extra judge, that the work load of the court is not increasing. Therefore, if on further assessment and consideration of the information supplied by the Government we remain convinced that there is no justification for appointing an extra judge, it will be our intention to take in another place a different attitude from the attitude taken here. 
Finally I repeat that in respect of the third measure under cognate debate, that relating to the tapping of telephones, whilst we will not oppose the transfer of control over this matter from the Attorney-General to the Prime Minister, we are unconvinced that justification exists for it. We believe that a matter affecting the rights and privacy of individuals ought to be under the control of the principal law officer of the Government, and we are unenthusiastic about the Government deciding to effect this transfer. 
-As the Committee will be aware, clauses 4 to 7 deal with the legislative ratification of the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office. They outline the functions of the Office and the powers of the 
Office. As the Committee is dealing with those 4 clauses together, it is therefore appropriate for the Opposition to direct a few remarks at the nature of the Australian Legal Aid Office and at the effect of this legislation on that Office as it now exists. It is also appropriate to comment on the Opposition's proposal for reference to a committee, which I regret to say the Government has voted to reject. I say again, as I said during the second reading debate and as other Opposition speakers have said, that there is nothing in the amendment moved in this place by the Opposition, which will be moved by the Opposition in another place, which would in itself prejudice the current operation of the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  is aware that the Austraiian Legal Aid Office has operated now for at least 18 months without the legislative ratification which is contained in the Bill we are now debating. He will be aware also, as are members of the Opposition, that there is nothing at all in the Opposition's proposal to send this Bill to a committee which would weaken the position the Australian Legal Aid Office has enjoyed during the past 1 8 months. 
For Government speakers to suggest that the Opposition's proposal would prejudice the position of the Australian Legal Aid Office is quite misleading. We would certainly not encourage- we would actively discourage- a committee from taking months, perhaps even years, as the Attorney-General suggested, to consider this Bill. That is not our intention. If this legislation is to be referred to a Senate committee, which now appears to be the only course because the Government has indicated in this place that it does not accept the idea of a joint committee, the Opposition would hope that a committee report would be available early in the new year. Far from that killing the Bill, far from that burying legal aid, it would give to the members of this House more objective information regarding the most effective way in which legal aid can be provided in Australia than is available presently. It is a fairly common device of Government Ministers and speakers when the Opposition proposes that matters be referred to Committees to suggest this back-door way of killing a Bill. 
Nothing could be further from the truth. We heard those replies from the Government when we suggested during the course of debate on the National Compensation Bill that that legislation should be referred to a committee. Of course honourable members opposite as well as on this side of the chamber know what happened when that Bill went to a Senate committee. It was examined in great detail by that committee, very substantial amendments were recommended by that committee and those recommendations enjoyed the support of the 3 Government senators who sat on that committee. So to suggest that by referring this legislation to a committee we would weaken the position of the Australian Legal Aid Office or that we are trying to kill legal aid in Australia is to be quite misleading. 
-For the benefit of the honourable member for Casey, it would give to members of this place - 
-l would like to respond very briefly to the question asked of me by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  He asked me to comment upon the significance of statements made by both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Senator Greenwood  on the subject of the Australian Legal Aid Office. For his benefit and for the benefit of other honourable gentlemen I read the relevant extract from the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition during the Budget debate. He stated: 
We would have abolished- 
Would have- the Department of the Media, as was announced earlier, the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Australian Legal Aid Office . . . 
Subsequently he stated: 
This could have been done while maintaining grants to the States and to Aborigines for legal aid . . . 
Of course, the point which the Leader of the Opposition was making on that occasion was within the context of an alternative Budget which would have been presented by the Opposition if it had been the Government at the time the Government's Budget was presented in August. There is absolutely nothing inconsistent in what  Mr Fraser  said on that occasion and the approach that the Opposition is now taking to refer this matter to the consideration of a committee. In no way can the statement of the Leader of the Opposition be honestly construed as expressing opposition to legal aid. I say again that it is totally misleading of the Attorney-General or any other member of the Government to suggest that because we disagree with the method chosen by the Government to provide legal aid in Australia we are opposed to legal aid itself. 
So far as  Senator Greenwood  is concerned, I invite members on the Government side during the course of this debate to draw to my attention the public comments that  Senator Greenwood  has made about the existence of the Australian Legal Aid Office.  Senator Greenwood  will have an opportunity of expressing his views on the matter when it comes up for debate in another place. I do not wish to pre-empt anything that  Senator Greenwood  has to say on the subject of legal aid or on the manner in which it can be provided. I will say this and say it very firmly, that  Senator Greenwood,  along with other members of the Opposition's Attorney-General's committee who have given the matter of legal aid very careful consideration, are committed, as is the Leader of the Opposition, to the provision of adequate legal aid facilities in Australia. Because we may not necessarily agree with the method the Government has chosen to provide those services we ought not to be described as being opposed to legal aid. 
-The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has just told the Committee that the purpose of the amendment he has moved is to make it perfectly clear that the function of the Board of Management is to initiate and determine the policy to be followed by the Office. I draw to the attention of the CommitteeI think I may do this having regard to the nature of the clause under discussion the provisions of clause 13 which provides that the Attorney-General shall be kept informed of proposals with respect to matters of policy in relation to the functioning of the Office. It therefore seems strange to me, in view of the wording of clause 13, that the Attorney-General can argue that the effect of his amendment is to make it clear that the function of the Board of Management is to initiate and determine the policy to be followed by the Office. Sub-clause (3) of clause 13 makes it clear that if the Attorney-General and the Board are unable to reach agreement the GovernorGeneral may, by order in other words, the Government, the AttorneyGeneraldetermine the policy to be followed by the Board in relation to that matter. I seek the Attorney General's guidance on who is to have the ultimate authority to determine the policy of the Board if there is a disagreement. 
-I would not have spoken again on this clause if the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  had given me a satisfactory assurance that the effect of the amendment that he has just moved is to make it clear beyond doubt that in matters of policy, the final determination is to be made by the Board of Management. Whilst the Attorney-General spent a considerable period talking about the responsibility of government regarding the provision of funds, he was not prepared to concede that, having decided that a certain allocation of funds should be made to a particular service, those persons who were regarded by the Government as being expert in that service should have the responsibility of deciding how the money should be expended. I have a number of other remarks to make on this matter but I think that in deference to you,  Mr Chairman,  I should make them during the debate on clause 1 3. 
-The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  and I have already indicated that we do not agree with the attitude of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that he should have the final say regarding matters of policy. He equates this power with the overall fiscal responsibility of any government to see what is done with the money that it allocates for a particular government service. If that is the case, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  might argue that he should have the final say in matters of policy regarding the various educational institutions to which this Government allocates funds. 
The truth of the matter is that the Government's proposals in this Bill fly in the face of the recommendations of its own law and poverty commissioner, Professor Ronald Sackville who, in his report on legal aid services in Australia, recommended that the provision of legal aid at a federal level should be controlled by an independent legal aid commission. He stressed that it was important that a Government, having decided to allocate a certain amount of funds, should then leave it to a commission of people skilled in the provision of legal aid services not dominated, as the Attorney-General incorrectly perceives to be the persistent attitude of the Opposition, by the legal profession. The AttorneyGeneral is, as I said by way of interjection, very sensitive about this. He is the person who, during the course of this debate, has constantly brought up this subject; it is not Opposition speakers. For the Attorney-General to allege as he did a few moments ago that the legal profession's lobbies have reached into the Party room and that we have all been lined up to take a particular attitude is absolute nonsense. It is not worthy of the Attorney-General to make such a suggestion any more than it has been worthy of other members of the Government to make suggestions of that nature. 
The Government's proposals are contrary to what Professor Sackville recommended. They are, in fact, contrary to the view expressed by the Law Council of Australia. They are inconsistent with the American experience where in the past 2 years it has been found necessary to vest the administration of all federal legal aid services in a separate statutory corporation. That is the view that I certainly take and which I know that a number of Opposition members interested in legal aid take. It is that if we want to have a legal aid operation on a Federal level, we should have an independent body. We would have preferred there to be a Federal legal aid commission with some executory and not advisory powers. At the State level there could also be, as the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  outlined, the State legal aid commissions to decide on the allocation of funds. We are not suggesting that the Government should abdicate interest in the provision of legal aid. Of course, the Government has to be interested, but to suggest that the Government is being irresponsible because it hands over the administration of legal aid to people whom it chooses on the basis of their expertise to administer legal aid is absolute nonsense. That is what the Attorney-General is arguing. 
Of course, the truth is that the AttorneyGeneral says that either he or any subsequent Attorney-General in either a government of his ilk or a government formed from this side of the chamber will be a better judge of community need than people who are skilled in the sort of criteria that ought to apply to the provision of legal aid services. If the right people are chosen to administer legal aid services in Australia, the right decisions will be made as to those areas that should be given priority, those persons who should have assistance and generally the direction that legal aid should take. We are unhappy with this provision. We think that if there is to be a Federal apparatus to govern the distribution of funds and to determine matters of policy in legal aid, it ought to be an independent body. It ought to be made up of persons who are chosen on the basis of their experience in the provision of legal aid. It ought not to be made up exclusively of lawyers. Of course it should involve people who are concerned at the social welfare aspects of legal aid and who have had experience in the needs of people in the legal aid area. 
We are very disappointed that this, along with many of the other controversial aspects of this Bill, could not be made the subject of a committee inquiry. There is a genuine area of doubt and concern regarding the way in which legal aid services are to be administered. Why does not the Government agree to a committee composed of members from both sides of both Houses of Parliament taking an objective look at the matter? 
-These clauses deal with the establishment and functions of the Australian Legal Aid Commission. If ever one can find a fairly empty gesture in this Bill one can find it Part IV, which provides for the establishment of an Australian Legal Aid Commission. The Opposition would have been very interested in an Australian Legal Aid Commission that had a bit of executive power but when one reads, particularly later on in Part IV, the provisions relating to the functions of the Commission one finds that it does not. 
At this stage I would like to direct my remarks particularly to clauses 15 and 16. The Committee will be aware that the Commission is to consist of a maximum number of 1 3 Commissioners, which number is to include a Chairman and a Commissioner appointed by it to represent the Attorney-General and not less than 6 nor more than 1 1 other Commissioners. I have said before in this debate, as have other Opposition speakers, that I do not believe that the lawyersindeed, the private practitioners in the lawshould dominate the bodies which are in control or are advising in legal aid matters, but the Opposition does believe that there ought to be a slightly more generous provision for private legal practitioners than the grudging acknowledgement which is given in clauses 15 and 16. 
I invite the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby ) to deny that clauses 15 and 16, as they stand, do not guarantee more than one out of thirteen of the Commissioners shall be private legal practitioners. I am not suggesting that there should be ten out of the thirteen or even seven out of the thirteen; I am suggesting that the Government might be a little more willing to acknowledge that there are many private legal practitioners in Australia who have a good deal of knowledge about how effectively one can provide legal aid and that their expertise ought to be acknowledged instead of it being specified, as clause 16 does, that one of the categories of persons that has to produce a candidate for appointment to the Commission is the category of those who have had experience or knowledge in any other field relative to the duties of a Commissioner. Of course, honourable gentlemen on this side of the chamber know very well that that leaves an extraordinarily wide discretion with the Attorney-General and that we might well end up with some people whose expertise in the provision of legal aid services in less than satisfactory. 
What the Opposition does say about this clause is that there ought to be adequate provision for the private legal profession insofar as the membership of the Board is concerned. We do not specify the precise number. We are not that dogmatic. We do say that a guarantee of not more than one private legal practitioner- I stress the word 'private'- is not satisfactory. We think that the Government, in drafting clauses 15 and 16, has not given sufficient acknowledgement to the contribution that private legal practitioners can make. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 17. 
1 ) The functions of the Commission are 
to assess, and report to the Attorney-General, what should be the respective roles of private legal practitioners, legal practitioners employed by Governments, and other bodies providing legal services, in the provision of legal assistance in Australia to persons who are unable to afford the full cost of legal services; 
to advise the Attorney-General as to the desirability of granting financial assistance to bodies administering schemes for the provision of legal assistance in Australia, or proposing to administer such schemes, and as to the amount of financial assistance that should be granted and the conditions upon which the financial assistance should be granted; 
to advise the Attorney-General on any other matters relating to the provision of legal assistance; and 
-The Opposition is disappointed that the proposed Legal Aid Commission's functions are to be only advisory. The amendments of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  improve the situation a little although they do not alter the basic advisory capacity of the Commission, and the Commission will not have any executorial authority and will not meet the criteria for a satisfactory Commission suggested by Professor Sackville and the Law Council of Australia. However, the Attorney-General's third amendment is a considerable improvement. I regard the provision of information to members of the public as to the availability of legal aid services as being an essential element in the provision of adequate legal aid facilities. It is all very well to have good legal aid facilities, but unless the people who need legal aid assistance are aware that those facilities exist and are made aware of the locations of offices, advisory centres and inquiry centres, the legal aid service is of absolutely no use to them. I am glad to see specific acknowledgment of that in the Attorney-General's amendment, and I think his third amendment considerably improves the clause. 
-The Opposition's worry about this group of clauses is directed to the Government's unwillingness to subject members of the Australian Legal Aid Office, wherever they may practise, to the full practising requirements of individual law societies in Australia. I would seriously entreat the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  in speaking to these clauses to explain to the Opposition why the Government is reluctant to take this step. If indeed the Government is serious in acknowledging the place of the private legal profession in Australia, if it is serious in co-operating with the States in the provision of legal aid services, if it is serious in imposing upon members of the Australian Legal Aid Office precisely the same professional obligations as are imposed upon members of the private legal profession, and if it is serious about providing to clients of the Australian Legal Aid Office exactly the same confidentiality of advice and assistance as a person enjoys when engaging a private practitioner on his or her own account, the Attorney-General ought reasonably to change the Bill as it now stands to provide that in all respects members of the Australian Legal Aid Office shall be required not only to comply with admission requirements of the individual State and territorial supreme courts but also to comply with the practising requirements of the law societies of the individual States. 
If it is desired by the Government not to develop in our community 2 categories of practitioners, those employed on a salaried basis by the Government and those engaged in private practice, the Government will subject the members of the Australian Legal Aid Office to precisely the same restrictions and privileges as private legal practitioners. I regard this and I know- I make no apology for expressing this view- that the legal profession views this as a very important matter. The honourable gentleman and other honourable members will be aware of the obligations which flow from the issue of a practising certificate and the obligations which are imposed upon persons when applying initially for a practising certificate and subsequently when they apply for renewal of such practising certificates. 
-The Opposition regards clause 29 as being one of the more important clauses of the Bill. Quite clearly any system for the provision of legal aid must contain clear eligibility criteria and any government in drawing up legal aid legislation must be concerned to ensure that on the one hand legal aid reaches those who need it and on the other hand that the provision of legal aid facilities is not abused by those who do not need them. I say at this stage that many members of the Opposition are concerned about the implications of sub-clause (4) of clause 29. 1 think it is opening a potential Pandora's box to have in a Bill a provision which ultimately in matters of policy leaves it to the Attorney-General, the Government of the day, to decide whether or not legal aid may be granted for certain categories of action. I think it is opening a Pandora's box to provide in a Bill that legal aid shall be given in any matter involving public interest without requiring the person seeking the legal aid, or the group of persons, to comply with the eligibility criteria laid down in respect of the pursuit of individual rights and individual actions. 
Why is it that the Government believes it should provide for the pursuit of an individual action which might, according to the political view of the government of the day, be in the public interest? I think all honourable members would agree that the assessment of public interest in this context is an extraordinarily broad one and subject very much to the value judgment of the government of the day, be it a Labor government or a government of our persuasion. The Opposition is concerned about this clause. I do not say that under no circumstances should such a provision exist, but it does open a new area. It means that if a person has a public interest action involving the environment, irrespective of whether that person complies with the eligibility criteria that a person with a private action might have to comply with, that person might become eligible for legal aid. It opens up the spectre of vexatious actions in many cases which could become extremely costly. 
The Opposition does not say that under no circumstances should such a provision be made but we think it ought to be looked at very carefully. We would like a committee to have the benefit of the experience of persons who have seen this type of thing operate overseas, particularly in the 
United States of America where I understand that in many legal aid systems provision is made for this type of action. We would like to know of the experience over there. We would like to know the cost. We would like to know whether such a thing has been abused. We would like to know the number of persons or number of groups of persons who have been able to obtain legal aid for environmental and public interest actions. We would like to know which of those persons would or would not have complied with the eligibility criteria if the matter in respect of which they wanted assistance had become a private action. 
I hope the Attorney-General will take note of the Opposition's views on this matter because we regard the question of the criteria for assistance as being at the heart of any legal aid system, not because we take a miserly approach but because we, as a Parliament, ought to be concerned about what this Bill is committing this Government to, for the time being anyway, and future governments as well so far as the provision of legal aid is concerned. I say again that this is precisely the sort of matter that a committee could have examined with profit. It may well be that in the light of that examination those of us on the Opposition side who are worried about this category of assistance would have had our fears allayed. I cannot go further,  Mr Chairman,  than to express concern about it. I know other members of the Opposition are in the same position. They do not know whether this is a desirable trend and we would like to know a lot more about it. I think it would repay study by people interested in the subject of legal aid if that sort of clause, in parrticular, were the subject of a committee examination. 
I wish briefly to express a concern which really follows upon the concern I expressed in relation to subclause (4) of clause 29, and that is that a party or group of persons may, under the fairly wide criteria which I envisage under clause 29, be given legal assistance in respect of an action which does not involve the prosecution of individual rights, which does not involve an attempt to recover damages or to assert a claim to property, but which might, for example, involve an environmental action against a particular company, either large or small. I merely express a concern at the interrelation of sub-clause (4) of clause 29 and the less than strong injunction given to the Legal Aid Office- and indirectly to the Government- to ensure that a party against whom an action has been taken can recover costs awarded in that party's favour. I have a real concern in this area. I regret that just as the concern of the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  about a previous clause discussed cannot be subject to an investigation of a committee, my concern in respect of these 2 clauses likewise cannot be examined by a committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 35. 
1 ) Where a decision in relation to the provision of legal assistance or in relation to the making or any payment in respect of costs, including a decision reconsidering or reviewing a previous decision, is made under this Act, the office shall communicate the decision to any person affected by the decision. 
I listened with very great interest to what the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  said. He is a person whose integrity in this House is not disputed; he is a person who personally commands a very wide respect. I was particularly impressed with his comment that common sense ought to apply to the operation of our Constitution. It is a proposition with which I do not think any members on this side of the House would disagree. Of course, common sense must apply in the operation of any constitution. No constitution can contemplate every situation; no constitution can embrace all situations. 
Where I depart from my agreement with the Minister for Overseas Trade is that the remarks that he addressed to the operation of the Constitution and the very proper appeal that he made to the operation of common sense were remarks addressed to conditions of normalcy. As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said last night during the debate on the Appropriation Bills, at the present time we are not living in conditions of political normalcy. It is not politically normal to have a situation in which 2 persons who acted as the Prime Minister of this country have been removed from office during the past 9 months because according to their leader, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  they misled the Parliament. 
It is not a condition of normalcy for a Budget which was introduced on the basis that a deficit would be of the order of $2,800m is now believed on very sound grounds to contemplate, when the ultimate is known, a deficit of $4,000m. It is not a condition of normalcy to have brought this Parliament- this House and the other place- back from a winter recess in July for the purpose of resolving once and for all the doubts that existed in the minds of many people, not only on this side of the House but throughout the community, regarding the conduct of the loans affair. It is not a condition of normalcy that that extraordinary gesture by the Prime Minister failed to remove the doubts. So far from failing to remove the doubts it has, by reason of what was said on that occasion and by reason of what was left unsaid, multiplied the doubts that have existed throughout the community. Does anybody seriously suggest that the doubts which had lingered on since 9 July were due entirely to the political posturing of the Opposition? Does anybody seriously suggest that it is entirely due to the attitude of the Opposition that those doubts have remained? Of course that cannot be seriously asserted. 
It is not, I suggest to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  a condition of normalcy for it to be on record in this Parliament that four of the most senior Ministers, including the Prime Minister and the then  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country, advised the Governor-General that a loan repayable in 20 years was a loan for temporary purposes. This is a proposition which in the words of  Sir Robert  Menzies yesterday would have evoked laughter from any first year student, be he a law student or any other student. 
We are not living in times of political normalcy, and that is precisely the basis of the stand that the Opposition has taken. This is not a normal government. In the Opposition's view, it has not behaved with normal responsibility. We take a stand not completely dictated by political attitudes or political expediency. We believe- I put this to the House with the same sincerity as the views expressed by the Minister for Overseas Trade- that this Government and its leader, the Prime Minister, have misled this House, have been guilty of dishonesty and have misled the Australian people. That is a view which is held with great sincerity by a large number of people, not only by those who sit on this side of the House but also by people throughout the community. I think that the Minister for Overseas Trade would agree with me that inevitably in the situation that now confronts us there is a good deal of hysteria and emotion. Whereas truth is said to be the first casualty in war I think it can also be said that truth has become very much a casualty in the political battle which is presently raging in Australia. 
There are three or four aspects of the proposition I have just made that I would like to canvass briefly in the time available to me. The first is the proposition that governments are made and unmade in the House of Representatives. In the ultimate that is not true. Governments are made or unmade by the people and by nobody else. In the Opposition's view it is the refusal of the Prime Minister to face his makers that is causing the present crisis. It is his refusal to face the people who ultimately make and unmake all of us and who ultimately decide whether honourable members opposite or honourable members on this side will sit on the Government side of the House. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said that of course it is always available to a government to have a dissolution on a great issue. I put it to the House that there is a responsibility on this Government and on this Prime Minister because a great issue is now involved- the great issue being the clear deadlock between the House of Representatives and the Senate, a deadlock not contemplated in conditions of normalcy by those who wrote the Constitution. The power which has led to this deadlock was put there not with a mental reservation, as  Sir Robert  Menzies said yesterday, that it would never be used but in the belief that circumstances might transpire which would justify its use- not normal circumstances, not usual circumstances, not just circumstances of political disputation but circumstances of quite an extraordinary and abnormal nature. 
It is the basis of the Opposition's case- a case which we put to this House and to the Australian people- that the behaviour of this Government and particularly the behaviour of its Prime Minister and 2 former senior Ministers was so abnormal as to justify the Senate using the power which has been given to it. I put it to the House also that there is no attempt by the Opposition to gain government other than in the only way in which any party can gain government in this country, and that is by obtaining the support of the Australian people. We ask for one thing, and that is for the Government to test the stand it takes, to test its record, to test its credit with the Australian people. It is the belief of the Opposition and, I am sure, the belief of a growing number of people throughout Australia that the Government is unwilling to test its standing with the Australian people. 
The second departure from truth during the heat and turmoil of this debate is the proposition that the Opposition would not have been able to block the Appropriation and Loan Bills in the Senate without the assistance of 2 senators appointed in circumstances of great controversy. Government supporters know that that proposition is incorrect. They know that the 30 members of the Liberal and National Country Parties who sit in the Senate at the present time were elected on the same occasion, at the same poll, by the same franchise and on precisely the same day as every single person who sits in this House, whether he be a Government or an Opposition supporter. There are 30 out of 60 senators who sit in the other place who belong to the Liberal and National Country Parties. Every Government supporter knows that a proposition which is opposed by 30 members of the Senate is a proposition which does not pass through the Senate. 
The third departure from reason and truth in this debate is the proposition that in the past the Australian Labor Party has had within its power to do in the Senate what the Opposition has now done. The Prime Minister himself has lent his weight to this proposition. The Labor Party, although it had that power, has scrupulously refrained from using it. We all know the circumstances of the quotations which have been used- I think, quite rightly- during the past few days to describe the attitude of the Prime Minister in 1970 to the use of the Senate's power. We know the quotation. Honourable members on the Government side know quite well that the Prime Minister was in no doubt that the Senate had the power and that if he could have mustered the numbers in the Senate he would have destroyed the Budget of 1970 and the Government of 1970- a Government that had been elected in October 1 969 and was then 10 months old. What has to be said because of this proposition is that in 1970 the Australian Labor Party did not command the numbers in its own right in the Senate to bring about the stated purpose of the then Leader of the Opposition. 
The fourth misleading element that has been introduced into this debate is to draw any analogies between the Australian Senate and other Upper Houses in the Westminster system. To draw any analogy at all between the Australian Senate and the House of Lords is a complete nonsense. Every member of this House and every student of constitutional and legal practice know that the House of Lords is an undemocratic, hereditary body, not elected. So to draw any analogies at all between the Australian Senate, which does have unique powers as an Upper House, and the House of Lords is totally irrelevant and a complete nonsense in this whole argument. 
The other unfortunate element which has been introduced into this debate- I am very pleased to note that a number of Government speakers have not lent their weight to it- is the proposition that in some way we are headed for violence in the community. Every responsible, commonsense member, whether he be a Government member or an Opposition member, knows that violence to settle political disputes in this country is abhorrent to any party that believes in democratic practice. Every responsible member knows that this confrontation between the House of Representatives and the Senate will not lead to violence. Talk of violence, blood in the streets and rioting is totally and utterly irresponsible. It is a matter of some regret that one of the senior Ministers of the Government in another place was one of the earliest contributors to this incitement to disorder. 
The other thing that I would like to observe briefly is the turn of events which has occurred in the Government's presentation of its case. I am reminded by the question that was asked in the House this morning that only on 17 September the Attorney-General in the present Government  (Mr Enderby)  issued a statement in which he put forward what I regard, what I think he probably now regards and what almost certainly the Prime Minister regards as an extraordinary statement. He said that the power lawfully vested in the Senate to do what it has done during the past week had become atrophied and, in his own words, a complete dead letter. It was also interesting to note the proposition advanced by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr 
Lionel Bowen) that if the Appropriation Bills were delayed or rejected by the Senate the Government would simply ignore that and present them to  His Excellency  for signature. That argument has also gone by the board. Neither of those arguments had any credence at the time they were put. Neither of those arguments should ever have been put. I think it is a matter of regret that the Government's principal legal adviser, the Attorney-General, was prepared to lend the weight of his office to the proposition that a power which is very clearly spelt out in the Australian Constitution, because the extraordinary circumstances to justify its use had never arisen before, had in some way become a dead letter or had become atrophied. 
I think it is of some significance that during the series of debates we have had in this chamber during the past week on a matter involving constitutional considerations to my knowledge we have not had one contribution in any of those debates from the Government's principal legal adviser, the Attorney-General. The fact of the matter is that the original posturing of the Government that the Senate did not have the legal power to do what it has done is now acknowledged by Government spokesmen, by the Prime Minister and by his senior Ministers to have been incorrect. 
I conclude my remarks by saying again that the Opposition says to the supporters of the Government that ultimately this dispute must be resolved by the Australian people, that there is a clear responsibility on the Prime Minister at least to dissolve the House of Representatives, to dissolve both Houses if he so wishes, that it is a deadlock between the 2 Houses of the Australian Parliament. It has been brought about not by conditions of normalcy, not by just the normal political conflict and confrontation that occurs whichever Party is in office, but it has been brought about by conditions of abnormalcy, by the extraordinary conduct of two of the most senior Ministers who have held office in the present Government. It has been brought about because the Opposition believes that the Prime Minister was party to many of the things for which those senior Ministers were removed from office, because the Opposition believes that the Prime Minister has been unwilling to apply to himself the same standards of conduct that he applied to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor). 
Because of these perhaps unique and certainly very abnormal circumstances the situation is too serious for the Senate to do other than to respond responsibly and to use the power given to it by the Constitution. In any parliamentary democracy, just as there is a place for the government party there is also a place for the Opposition parties. Just as there are responsibilities placed on the government there are also responsibilities placed on the Opposition. The responsibilities of an Opposition are not in normal circumstances ones that require it to use the extraordinary power that is given to it in special circumstances but on occasions the Opposition is required to act, to take a very difficult step, and to do it responsibly. 
It is the united view of this Opposition, both here and in the Senate, that we are in very special circumstances, which are not circumstances of normalcy. The Opposition has used the power given to it by the Constitution to delay the Appropriation Bills and the Bill we are now debating until such time as the Prime Minister sets an election date for the House of Representatives. Therefore, I propose an amendment to the motion moved by the Minister for Overseas Trade. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Prime Minister sets an election date for the House of Representatives because he has misled the people and the Parliament'. 
-The Consumer Protection Bill 1975 and the Trade Practices Bill (No. 2) 2) 1975 represent a substantial and important move by the Federal Government in the area of consumer protection. I therefore think it appropriate to state at the outset the total commitment of the Opposition Parties to the development and maintenance of laws which effectively protect the rights of consumers in a society in which consumers are being increasingly offered a wider range of goods and services and are increasingly confronted with sophisticated sales techniques in both design and promotion. Freedom of choice in the market place is quite central to the philosophy of both the Liberal and National Country Parties. We believe that such conditions of free choice can exist only where a consumer has been adequately informed as to the choices available to him and is not influenced in his decision to purchase products by coercive or misleading conduct 
I think all honourable members would agree that modern market conditions inevitably place many consumers in a position of disadvantage It is the responsibility of governments at both a State, and where appropriate, a Federal level, to prevent the exploitation of that position of disadvantage. The Opposition believes that the area of consumer protection law offers a major challenge to co-operative federalism There can be no doubt that the primary, but not exclusive, responsibility for the day to day administration of consumer protection is and ought to remain the responsibility of the States. This is a view which the Opposition parties hold quite strongly. We do not believe that consumer protection is totally a matter for the States. We are not asserting that solutions to consumer problems will be obtained by the Commonwealth simply vacating the field and taking no interest in it but we do assert that it is primarily a matter for the States. Their primary role ought to be recognised in any legislation which this or any future Federal Government might bring forward in the area of consumer protection. 
Increasingly in Australia there is a single national market for consumer goods and services which pays little regard to State boundaries. In these circumstances there are some practices which are beyond the legislative power of any one State. Certain objectives in the field of consumer protection cannot be achieved by the 
States acting alone. But a solution to this dichotomy is not to be found either, as I said earlier, in the Commonwealth vacating the field or in the Commonwealth unilaterally adopting a position of doubtful constitutional validity which creates confusion by duplicating areas already covered by State law. The objective of this Parliament, the objective of the Liberal and National Country Parties, will be to achieve a coherent and, where necessary, uniform body of laws governing the exchange of consumer goods and services. It is for that reason that the Opposition Parties warmly commend the efforts of the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General in its attempts to bring about uniform consumer credit laws throughout Australia. It is for that reason that the Opposition Parties in 1974, at the time of debate on the present Trade Practices Act, criticised the present Government for having included in the Trade Practices Act what is now Part V of that Act without having carried out adequate consultation with the States. 
These Bills were introduced into this Parliament on Wednesday last, 15 October. We are now debating them a week later. The first question the Opposition asks is: Why is it necessary for the Parliament to debate and to decide upon these Bills in such haste? Can the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  explain to the satisfaction of the Parliament why it has been necessary to deny to the Opposition, to the States, to industry, to consumer groups adequate time to examine the provisions of these Bills. If indeed, as stated in his second reading speech, the Minister believes that the activities and the role of the Federal Government in consumer protection is to complement the work of the States and not to compete with them I suggest he would fulfil that objective far more effectively by allowing adequate time for the State governments, Labor and non-Labor, to examine and to form an attitude on the detailed provisions of these Bills. 
I know that a large section of the Consumer Protection Bill consists of a lift of Part V of the Trade Practices Act. From my examination of it and based also on what the Minister has told me- I accept this- the lift has been a faithful and accurate one and there has been no attempt in the course of it to interpolate any amendments. This Bill does not consist only of a reproduction of Part V of the Trade Practices Act. It establishes a new regulatory authority. It confers on that authority quite substantial powers beyond those presently conferred on the Trade 
Practices Commission under Part V of the Trade Practices Act. 
I put to the House, and in particular to the Minister, that this Bill should not be allowed to slide through the Parliament on the basis that all it does is give to a new authority power to administer what is already existing law, namely, Part V of the Trade Practices Act. For reasons which I shall develop later in my speech, the Bill goes considerably further than just reproducing Part V under the auspices of the new Australian Consumer Protection Authority. We will be looking during the course of this debate for evidence of whether the States have been given an opportunity to express interest in what the Authority is going to do or to express a desire to liaise with any Federal consumer protection authority. If this Authority is established, of course the States will be interested to know what it is doing. Of course they will be interested to co-operate with the Authority if it is established. For our part on the Opposition side, we would encourage the States to do that. But what we want to know from the Minister and what we are putting to the House is that the States in particular and nonetheless industry groups and consumer bodies ought to have an opportunity to examine in detail and with some time the detailed provisions of this Bill. 
This legislation raises 4 basic questions which the Opposition puts to the Minister. Firstly, the Bill establishes yet another authority whose operations will involve the monitoring of business behaviour, whose operations will impose upon business throughout Australia obligations, administrative expense and additional operating costs, all of which are ultimately borne by the ordinary Australian consumer. I think it is legend to debate in this House over the past 12 or 18 months that during the term of office of the present Government the number of agencies and authorities with which a wide range of Australian business enterprises have had to contend and to comply with has multiplied greatly. I do not condemn, nor does the Opposition condemn or oppose, the necessity for having regulation of certain business activities. We do not oppose for a moment the fact that there are certain practices in business throughout Australia which ought to be the subject of legislative interference, restraint and, where necessary, penalty. But what we basically question is the ultimate value of business being required to comply with an increasing degree of interference and regulation from government. It is the responsibility of government to ensure fair conditions in the market place and to promote competition. They are tests that the Opposition will apply to any proposal of the Government to establish further bodies which will interfere with the operation of, in most cases, legitimate business organisations. 
The second basic question we ask is: Why is it necessary after little more than 12 months of operation significantly to dismember the Trade Practices Commission. I do not think any retailer, manufacturer, consumer, advertiser or person in government involved with the administration of the Trade Practices Act would deny that the provisions of this Act when introduced were new, different, and far-reaching so far as business in Australia was concerned. The Act has now been in operation for little more than 12 months. I think it must be acknowledged that Australian business in general has made a very genuine and praiseworthy attempt to comply with not only the letter of the Trade Practices Act but also the spirit of the Trade Practices Act. Whilst one could never give total endorsement to the operation of legislation of this nature, I think it is fair to say that the Trade Practices Commission has fairly and honestly administered the provisions of the Act. Whilst there will always be with the administration of controversial legislation occasions when individual businesses or individual consumers will criticise the operations of the Commission in the discharge of its functions, by and large no serious charges of incompetence or maladministration have been levelled against the Trade Practices Commission. So it does strike the Opposition as a little curious that after little more than 12 months of operation it is necessary to take away from the Trade Practices Commission responsibility for a very substantial section of its operation. 
The Opposition, in saying this, raises a further fundamental question, that is, whether it is desirable to separate the objectives of competition and fair behaviour in competition. Let me quote from the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission presented to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  in July of this year. I think the remarks I shall refer to are relevant to the point I make. On page 1 of that report, in describing the approach of the Act, the commissioners said as follows: 
The Act has a double thrust- 
to strengthen the competitiveness of private enterprise at the various levels of production and distribution of industrial and consumer goods and services . . . and . . . 
to strengthen the position of consumers relative to producers and distributors - 
On page 2 the report goes on to say: 
The trade practices provisions of the Act are really competition provisions, and the consumer protection provisions are really provisions for fair play in competition. The provisions, each affecting the same companies, dovetail with each other as they do in the legislation of Britain and the U.S.A. 
Of course, what the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission was saying was very simply that the object of protecting the consumer and the object of promoting competition have a lot in common. They are different yet in many respects similar aspects of the same overall objective, that is, to promote fair play in the market place. 
The Opposition at this stage enters a very serious reservation as to the wisdom of taking away from the Trade Practices Commission the responsibility for consumer protection. The Opposition believes that there are very strong arguments for giving to the one body- of necessity, and having regard to the fact that it already exists, that body ought to be the Trade Practices Commission- responsibility for both competition matters and consumer protection matters. Our view in this respect is reinforced by the fact that the Trade Practices Commission has been in operation for a period of only 12 months, and during that period of 12 months persons interested in its operation have had to accustom themselves to a new set of rules, a new order in the market place. To ask those people to become accustomed to the operation of another authority after such a short period, in the view of the Opposition, is entirely premature. 
The third general question that this legislation raises is whether it is wise to vest in the same Authority the responsibility of monitoring market place behaviour and the development and supervision of the development of product safety standards. The first of those 2 functions essentially involves legal and economic considerations. The second of those functions essentially involves technical and scientific considerations. They are different functions. Their objective is the same, that is, to protect and to help the consumer and to promote fair conditions in the market place, but the expertise required to determine whether a radiator is safe is surely quite different from the expertise required to determine whether a particular advertisement is misleading or deceptive. That is the third basic question that the Opposition raises. 
I draw the attention of the Minister again, as I have done earlier on this subject, to the American practice and the American experience. I do not suggest for a moment that this Government or any other government should slavishly follow overseas experience, although I think it is fair to observe that prior to the preparation of this legislation the Minister found it necessary to visit a number of countries, including the United States, and has gone on record as saying that he studied very closely the operation of consumer protection laws in the United States. So I draw the Minister's attention to the American practice where product safety and product standards are kept quite separate from the monitoring of the market place behaviour. In the United States there is a separate product safety commission which has the responsibility of overseeing the safety of products and the development of consumer product standards. But it does not have responsibility in areas which are akin to areas covered by Pan V of the Trade Practices Act, those responsibilities being vested in the American Federal Trade Commission. I understand that a similar arrangement operates in other countries which have a not dissimilar market experience to Australia. 
As I said at the commencement of my remarks, this Bill does much more than simply transfer Part V of the Trade Practices Act to the new Authority. In addition it gives to the new Authority very wide and, in many cases, new functions. I draw the attention of the House particularly to clauses 7 and 8 of the Bill. I refer to sub-clauses (f) and (1) of clause 7. The first of those sub-clauses states that one of the functions of the Authority would be:  to examine critically, and report to the Minister on, the laws in force in Australia relating to the protection of the consumer; 
Sub-clause (1) states:  to make submissions to, or otherwise take pan in, proceedings before any tribunal or other bodies in relation to a matter affecting the interest of consumers. 
Does the Minister envisage that that clause would entitle the proposed Australian Consumer Protection Authority to seek representation before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, before the Prices Justification Tribunal, before the Trade Practices Commission or indeed before any authority that the present Government might seek to establish in respect of companies and the operation of securities markets in Australia? 
Clause 8 of the Bill gives very wide powers to the proposed Authority and by sub-clause (a) the Authority is empowered to: 
Inquire into any matter relevant to the exercise of its functions; 
That sounds very natural and very understandable at first glance, but in Part VI of the Bill a wide power of public inquiry is conferred upon the Authority. When one looks at a combination of clauses 7 and 8 of the Bill and Part VI of the Bill it is not difficult to reach the conclusion that the Authority would have the power to conduct public inquiries into complaints made against retailers and manufacturers by individual consumers. In my view, that does not sit very easily with the Minister's remarks when introducing this Bill when he said: 
Let me state clearly at the outset that it is not my intention that the new Authority should take over the functions of the State bureaus. 
As the Minister knows and as honourable gentlemen in this House who are familiar with the operation of consumer protection at State level know, the investigation of individual consumer complaints is one of the principal functions, if not the major function, of State consumer protection bureaus. So I suggest to the Minister that whilst on the surface he has paid deference to the need for co-operation between the new Authority that he wants established and the State bureaus, when one examines the legislation in detail one finds that there is the potential for further duplication and further overlapping between Federal and State governments in the area of consumer protection. 
The Bill also introduces some important new definitions in the consumer protection area. Whilst the objective of safety is one to which the Opposition gives its wholehearted support, nonetheless the new definitions introduce new concepts. That of itself is an argument why further time should be allowed for detailed consideration of the Bill. For example, the Bill contains a definition of what is called a 'substantial product hazard'. That is a very important concept particularly in view of the heavy penalties which are contained in clause 39 of the BUI. Clause 39 says in effect that if any manufacturer, retailer or distributor is aware that a substantial product hazard exists in respect of a particular consumer good or might exist in respect of that particular consumer good, he has an obligation to inform the Authority of the existence or the possible existence of that substantial product hazard. 
If he does not discharge that obligation he faces a penalty of $ 10,000 or 6 months in prison. Whilst in some cases that might be a justifiable penalty, it is a very serious penalty. I think it is one of the matters that ought to be considered. I do not suggest that the Opposition is totally opposed to such a concept but it introduces a new element as far as the operation of consumer protection laws in Australia is concerned. Its possible ambit of operation is not restricted to the large manufacturing companies; it can extend down to the very humblest of retailers and distributors of consumer goods and services. So that clause in particular imposes potentially heavy obligations on a wide range of companies and persons. 
Therefore, the Opposition seeks to have this Bill delayed for a period of one month. One month is not a long period of time. We ask the Government to agree to the legislation being deferred for a period of one month to enable adequate consideration not only by State governments but also by consumer groups, manufacturing organisations, retailing organisations, the advertising industry and all others who will be affected by its operation. The Opposition recognises that the Government has no doubt had some consultation with bodies and persons in preparing the Bill. During the debate on estimates for his Department with my leave the Minister incorporated in  Hansard  a list of persons and organisations with whom he had had contact regarding the proposed Authority. But as I said earlier, it is not sufficient just to have contact with somebody or some group of people regarding a proposal. We believe that legislation of this nature which will have far-reaching implications if it is passed by this Parliament ought in all fairness to be considered and sufficient time ought to be allowed for that consideration. We submit that a period of one week is totally inadequate. We do not accept that the Government has advanced any reasons at all why the Parliament should be required to make a final decision on this Bill after only one week. The Opposition is not prepared to make a final decision on this Bill after a period of only one week. 
If the Government does not agree to defer the Bill for a period of one month and if the amendment which I shall move in a moment is defeated in this House it will be the intention of the Opposition in another place to take a similar attitude and to move a similar amendment. We think that one week to consider legislation of this nature is totally unrealistic. It is liable to create resistance where resistance might not exist if a more reasonable approach were adopted. We want time to consider what the Bill means. We want time to consider the response of people who will be affected by the Bill. We do not want a repetition of what happened when the Minister's former colleague, the former Attorney-General and now  Mr Justice  Murphy, introduced the Trade Practices Bill. Part V of that Bill was inserted without adequate prior consulation with the States. The 
Minister knows and members of the Government know that the State governments were unhappy at the lack of co-operation which occurred in respect of Part V of the Trade Practices Bill. I ask the Minister not to duplicate what his predecessor did and not to repeat the error of introducing legislation and putting it through this Parliament without allowing adequate time for consideration. 
The Opposition will support and facilitate proper and reasonable legislation to protect the rights of consumers throughout Australia. We adhere to the view that it is the primary responsibility of State governments to protect the consumer, and, although not an exclusive responsibility, that there is a clear and identifiable role to be played by the Federal Government. I remind the Minister that the primary function of the States in the area of consumer protection has been publicly acknowledged by none other than his own leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  during an interview on 25 March 1974. In answer to the question 'Are you a centralist? ' the Prime Minister said: 
I believe that there are some things which need to be done by a national government . . . There is a whole number of things which are primarily under our Constitution State matters. For instance consumer matters . . . 
So, the Opposition says to the Government: Allow a bit more time. The Government may well find that by allowing some more time there will be a very reasonable response to the proposals it has in mind. The Opposition is not prepared at this stage to do other than move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the second reading of the Bill be delayed for one month. 
During the course of the second reading debate on this Bill last night the Opposition raised a number of basic questions regarding the establishment of the Consumer Protection Authority. I hope that during the course of the Committee debate the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will show a little more restraint and a little more respect for the reasonable attitude that the Opposition has adopted towards this legislation. The Opposition wants an adequate opportunity to be provided for a careful examination by all interested parties of a proposal to establish a separate Australian Consumer Protection Authority. During the course of the second reading debate the Minister reacted to the fact that I had drawn his attention to a request the Minister received from the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia that discussion on the Bill ought to be delayed for a period of time to allow sufficient consideration of the various clauses of the Bill. The Minister suggested that because I had referred to that request it indicated that the Opposition's attitude to this legislation is to be dictated by the attitude of the manufacturers, whom the Minister was at pains to criticise at great length during the course of his reply. 
I point out to the Minister, as he would well know today, that it is not only the Associated Chambers of Manufactures which is annoyed at the haste with which this Bill is being presented but also the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations, the representative body of the consumers of Australia, the body which the Minister's own Government sponsored last year, the body which the Minister's own Government provided with funds amounting to $70,000 to present the consumers' point of view. This group itself objects to the haste with which this Bill has been brought forward for debate. All the Opposition asks is that consideration of the establishment of this authority be the subject of careful investigation not only by the State governments which have a very important stake in consumer protection, not only by retailers, advertisers and manufacturers but also above all by the consumers of Australia and by the bodies throughout Australia which represent consumer opinion. 
The Minister knows that he has received a letter from the  Chairman  of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations. In that letter the  Chairman, Mr Malone,  expressed his disappointment that the Federation did not have the opportunity to view a draft of the legislation and expressed his disappointment that the Bill has been presented for second reading discussion with such haste. I think it is also necessary in fairness to a balanced presentation of  Mr Malone  's letter to point out that he made it clear that the Federation fully supports the intentions of the Government. I make that point clear lest the Minister, in his haste again to misrepresent the attitude of the Opposition to this legislation, alleges that I have misquoted what  Mr Malone  said. What he is saying, what we on the Opposition side say, what undoubtedly the State governments of Australia say in respect of this legislation, is that sufficient time should be allowed for a careful consideration of its detailed provisions. 
All the Opposition asks is that a month be allowed. We moved an amendment last night that a period of one month be allowed for further consideration of this Bill. The Government used its numbers to defeat that amendment. We then allowed a second reading of the Bill without a division. I repeat that it will be the intention of the Opposition again to move that amendment asking that time be allowed for a detailed consideration of this legislation. I do not think that that is an unreasonable proposition to put. I do not think it is unreasonable that legislation which represents the most significant intervention by the Commonwealth Government in the area of consumer protection ought to be allowed more than one week's consideration. This legislation, the proposal to establish this Authority, was introduced in this House only last Wednesday on 1 5 October and we are now being asked 8 days later to make a final decision on the Bill. It is an insult to a proper consideration of legislation to ask the Opposition, or to ask the many community groups throughout Australia who are as interested as we are in consumer protection, to bring forward a considered response to the provisions of the legislation in this time. 
It is of no use the Minister or any of his supporters on the government side categorising our proposed amendment as being opposition to consumer protection. That is a pattern of misrepresentation that this Government has embarked on in respect not only of this legislation but also of many other pieces of legislation which have been brought forward before this Parliament. Whenever the Opposition has said, 'Give us a bit of time to consider it. Allow those throughout the community who are interested to consider the legislation', the Government has always said, 'You are trying to kill the Bill. You are trying to delay the legislation'. The Minister's colleague, the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  adopted that tactic with respect to legal aid and the Minister has repeated it with respect to consumer protection. There can be no doubt that the Opposition is totally in favour of effective laws to protect the consumers of Australia. Just because we ask a few questions about some of the proposals of the Government to protect consumers we are accused of being the hirelings of the manufacturers and of taking our instructions from the board rooms of New York and Chicago. If the Minister wants to make an intelligent contribution to the discussion of consumer protection in this Parliament he must do better than indulge in ritualistic sideswipes at multi-national corporations. There is a lot more to consumer protection than simply establishing another authority and having an endless sideswipe at multinational corporations. 
Of course some of the practices of multinational corporations are adverse to the interests of consumers. The Opposition does not dispute that. But just because the Opposition suggests that the views of manufacturers and retailers, along with the views of consumers and State governments, ought to be taken into account in considering any Federal Government legislation in the consumer protection area, that does not make us hirelings or mouthpieces of manufacturers in this place. The Opposition wants this Parliament and those throughout Australia who are interested in consumer protection to have a decent opportunity to study the Government's proposals, to put forward their views as to whether the interests of consumers will be advanced by the Government's proposals, to put forward their views as to whether the Government's legislation achieves a proper balance between the obligations and responsibilities of the State governments in the area of consumer protection and the obligations of the Federal Government in the area of consumer protection. 
The Opposition does not dispute that the Federal Government has an important role to play in consumer protection. All the Opposition asks is that the Government allow a decent time for the Opposition and others in the community to consider this legislation. A month is not an unreasonable time to ask for consideration of this Bill to be deferred. If the Minister is really interested in advancing rational, sensible, and if possible, bipartisan discussion of laws to protect the consumers he will allow sufficient time for those of whom I have spoken to consider the provisions of this Bill. The Opposition did not oppose the second reading of this legislation, not because it has committed itself to a final attitude on the Bill- because it has not- but because we knew that that action, along with everything else we have done with the Bill, would be misrepresented as an attack on the consumers of Australia, as taking instructions from the board rooms of the multi-national corporations. I ask the Minister again to consider allowing the Opposition and those interested in this legislation a reasonable period of time within which to consider the legislation and its impact upon the rights and the protection of consumers throughout Australia. 
I should like to address a few remarks to the Committee regarding clauses 7 and 8 of the Bill. Clause 7 sets out the functions of the proposed Authority and clause 8 deals with the powers of that Authority. The purpose of my few remarks regarding these clauses is to elicit some information from the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  as to precisely what the Authority will do during the course of carrying out its functions and exercising its powers. One matter that concerns me about the Bill is to understand exactly what relationship there will be between the Authority and bodies such as the Standards Association of Australia in the development of consumer product standards. I do not ask that question in any argumentative or querulous fashion. I think the Committee is aware of the attitude that the Opposition is taking to the Bill and my purpose in raising these matters and making these comments is to elicit some more information from the Minister. 
The Minister will be aware that the Standards Association of Australia is a body which was established by royal charter, has developed an enviable record in the development of industrial and other standards throughout Australia and presently has under consideration approximately 150 projects for the development of consumer product standards. The Minister is aware of the contribution that the Standards Association of Australia has made to the development of standards generally. The Opposition would like to know, in some detail within the confines of the Committee debate, precisely what the relationship will be between the proposed Authority and the Standards Association. I recognise that in clause 7 the Authority is given a general function to co-ordinate activities and to devise, and assist other bodies to devise, consumer product standards. I would like to know, in a little more detail, precisely what the relationship will be. 
I think the Minister will be aware that the experience of the United States Products Safety Commission, which, I would submit, is a fair analogy to draw when considering this legislation, has been that the development and devising of standards is a very protracted and often extremely expensive process and that quite often the voluntary observance of consumer product standards has been well in advance of regulatory enforcement. The Minister will be aware, because of the close interest that I know he has taken in the operation of consumer protection laws in the United States, that whilst at the time the Consumer Products Safety Commission was established in 1972 it was hailed as a very significant step forward in the development of consumer product standards, the experience with the operation of the Act concerning that Commission has not totally borne out the expectations that were held for the Commission when it was established. The point I make is that if the Authority is to take over the whole field of the development of consumer product standards- I am not suggesting for a moment that that is the Government's intention; I am really asking whether it is- it will be a very expensive operation. 
The Minister will be aware that clause 8 of the Bill confers powers on the Authority to erect, maintain and operate laboratories and other facilities for the testing of consumer products for the purposes of the Act. I recognise that the Authority should have that power but I put it to the Committee that at a time when a premium ought to be placed on responsibility in government expenditure and at a time when there already exists in the consumer standards field a number of bodies including the Standards Association and the Food Standards SubCommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council- bodies which enjoy a very high reputation throughout Australia- I would hope and the Opposition would hope that any Federal Government activity in the area of consumer standards, whether it be through this proposed Authority or through any other mechanism, would draw as far as possible upon the expertise and the experience already offered by bodies such as the Standards Association and the Food Standards Sub-Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The Minister ought to be aware- I am sure the Minister is aware- that much of the success of the Standards Association of Australia in developing consumer standards is due to the fact that it is able to draw upon the industry, which makes available the resources and facilities of the industry, to assist the Standards Association in developing product standards. Of course not all sections of industry are out to fleece the consumer and not all sections of industry are unwilling to assist in the development of proper consumer product standards. I would like the Committee and the Government to bear in mind that if anything is done by the Government, either through this legislation or through future legislation in this area, to discourage the voluntary contribution which is already being made by industry and by bodies such as the Standards Association in the development of consumer product standards it would be a great pity. Matters of this nature can never be dealt with cheaply if there is no voluntary contribution made by agencies outside the Government. I would like the Minister, when replying to my comments on these 2 clauses, to give the Opposition some explanation of the relationship that will exist between the Authority and bodies such as the Standards Association of Australia. 
The other matter upon which I would like some further explanation from the Minister concerns sub-clause (f) of clause 7 which reads:  to examine critically, and report to the Minister on, the laws in force in Australia relating to the protection of consumers; 
I would like the Minister's opinion as to whether that sub-clause, when read in conjunction with the wide powers of public inquiry which are conferred on the Authority by another clause of the Bill, would empower the Authority to conduct a public inquiry as to the adequacy of consumer protection laws throughout Australia not only at the Federal Government level but also at State Government level. No innuendo is contained in the question. It is a straight out question. I would like the Minister to give the Committee the benefit of his opinion on that matter also. 
The final question I raise with the Minister is this: Is the intention of the Government to give to the Authority, if established, the power of deciding the manner in which money set aside by the Government for consumer protection shall be allocated to the various consumer bodies and other bodies associated with consumer affairs throughout Australia? In other words, is the proposed Authority, unlike the Australian Legal Aid Commission proposed by the Government and which is purely an advisory authority, to have executory functions so far as the determination of Government policy and determination of the manner in which Government funds shall be allocated? 
I wish now to address a few remarks to clauses 10 to 24 which embody what is now Part V of the Trade Practices Act. Unfortunately, last night, the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  did not reply to that part of my second reading speech which dealt with the question which is quite fundamental to this Bill, that is, justifying the transfer from the Trade Practices Commission of the power over consumer protection. The Minister will be aware that the Trade Practices Commission has been operating now for a period of only slightly more than a year and that Part V of the Trade Practices Act represents a most significant intervention into the area of consumer protection by the 
Federal Government. That part of the Act has been operating for a short period only. The Opposition would like to know why precisely the Government believes that it is necessary to take away from the Trade Practices Commission and to give to the new Authority responsibility for dealing with consumer protection. This aspect is very fundamental to the Bill. 
I do not believe that in any of the Minister's public speeches- I have read them all, I hopeand in his replies to questions in the Parliament, he has explained the reason why Part V of the Trade Practices Act must be taken from the Trade Practices Commission and given to the new Authority. To my knowledge, no suggestion has been made that the Trade Practices Commission has not administered fairly the consumer protection sections of the Trade Practices Act. I have not had any consumer groups come to me and say that the Trade Practices Commission is weak-kneed with respect to consumer protection. I have read the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission. I have read detailed articles on the activities of the Commission in the area of consumer protection. I can remember the Minister's colleague, the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  answering a question with obvious delight in this chamber from one of his own colleagues about the prosecutions that were launched under the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act, and which resulted in one company being fined the sum of $100,000. 
The point that I make is that no case has yet been made by the Minister as to why the responsibilities of the Trade Practices Commission must be partially dismembered. It is not sufficient to say that, under the Administrative Orders Arrangement, control of Part V of the Act has been taken from the Attorney-General and given to the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. What the Opposition wants to know and what a number of people who are concerned to have a coherent body of commercial law in this country are interested in knowing, is why it is necessary to give to a separate authority control for consumer protection law when there are many very strong reasons why the same authority should be concerned with the promotion of competition in the market place as well as the promotion of fair trading in the market place. I think that the Minister will have an uphill battle convincing a number of people- not only those who sit on the ' Opposition benches but also people throughout the community- that a sharp distinction can be drawn between the two. They do merge and they do have a great deal in common. A consumer has a vested interest in there being competitive conditions in a market just as he has a vested interest in advertising being honest. Yet, under the Government's policy, it is intended that the honest advertising part of the operation shall be the responsibility of the new Authority and the promotion of competition and the elimination of other restrictive trade practices shall remain the responsibility of the Trade Practices Commission. 
If indeed there were evidence that, in the short time of its operation, the Trade Practices Commission had proved inadequate to discharge responsibility under Part V of the Act given to it by this Parliament, there would have been a case to transfer Part V to the new Authority. If they were contradictory responsibilities, there would have been a case for making the transfer. But no evidence of that nature has been produced. One of the matters that the Opposition will take most seriously into account in determining its final attitude to the legislation- and I remind the Committee that the Opposition's final attitude to the legislation has not been determined and any suggestion that there is some kind of ruse or device in what we are asking is quite incorrect- is the argument that the Government might advance for effecting this transfer against what I and many of my colleagues are disposed to believe are overwhelming arguments in favour of keeping under the control of the same Authority the responsibility of promoting competition and protecting the consumer. 
As we are dealing with all clauses up to and including clause 40, 1 wish to address a few brief remarks now to clause 39 of the Bill. This clause provides the procedure for the notification of substantial product hazards. I did refer briefly to this matter last night. The Minister in his reply took exception to the fact that I should even dare to question any aspects of this clause. I do not argue that if a corporation is aware that one of its products is unsafe it ought to take all necessary steps including, if Parliament says so, notifying the Authority. All I asked the Minister to do was to look again at the terms of the clause. It is fairly severe in its operation. It does propose a penalty of up to $ 10,000 or in the case where a person is involved imprisonment for a period not exceeding 6 months. Yet, the criteria are fairly loose. Clause 39 provides, if I may paraphrase it, that any corporation that is a manufacturer, a distributor or a retailer of a consumer product which has reasonable cause to believe that a defect exists or may exist in some or all of the consumer product and that the defect gives rise to or would, if it exists, give rise to, a substantial product hazard shall inform the Authority of that fact. What I am putting to the Minister is that he might- I say this in all seriousness- consider whether the clause ought to be tightened up. I can conceive of a situation in which a person, objectively speaking, ought to be aware of the existence of what might be regarded as a substantial product hazard and quite innocently might be caught by the operation of this clause. I am not expressing opposition to the clause in principle. I am asking whether the Government might consider some possible tightening up of the clause or at least to reconsider the clause as I believe it might catch genuine and reputable manufacturers, retailers and distributors. For that reason I would hope that the Government might have another look at that clause. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Temporary Assistance Authority for 1974-75. 
For the information of honourable members I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on the dairy industry dated 23 October 1975, the. iron and steel industry dated 8 October 1975 and an interim report on fruit growing dated 30 October 1975. 
I understand from my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who is responsible for this matter, that it is still under consideration by the Government and a decision will be announced shortly. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to6 (1976.) 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966- 1974. 
Proposals Nos 1 to 5 ( 1976) introduce into the Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes contained in Notices of Intention to propose Customs Tariff Alterations published in the Australian Government Gazette since the dissolution of the Parliament on 1 1 November 1975. Many of the changes have been in operation for a considerable time, some as far back as September 1974. It is hoped that a Customs Tariff Bill will be brought before this House during the current sitting so that honourable members may have the opportunity to debate the changes concerned. 
The only new matter is in Proposal No. 6 ( 1976) which implements the Government's decision to impose tariff quotas on knitted tops. Imports in excess of tariff quotas will be subject to an additional duty of $12 per kilogram. This change operates from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes and their dates of operation is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
-I might first of all point out to the honourable member that responsibility for small businesses rests with my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton.  However, I understand that the Small Business Bureau, which was established by the previous Government, has a nucleus staff of about seventeen of which, I understand eight are located in Sydney and two in Perth. It is the intention of the Department of Industry and Commerce to decentralise the activities of the Bureau as much as possible. In this the Department and the Minister will be co-operating with State colleagues. The House will be aware of a meeting which took place in Hobart a few weeks ago between Federal and State Ministers interested in small businesses. Arising out of that meeting, a committee of officials has been established. I can assure the honourable member that I shall convey to my colleague his interest in the establishment of a greater complement of members of the Small Business Bureau in Melbourne because the Government believes that if its system of advice to and counselling of small businesses is to be effective, it must be decentralised as much as possible. 
I must correct the honourable gentleman's understanding of my earlier answer. I did not say that I was prepared myself to take proceedings under the Act. I said that in appropriate cases my consent to prosecutions would be given. My attention has riot been drawn to the particular article to which the honourable gentleman refers but I will have the matter that he raises investigated. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on dyeline base paper dated 1 8 June 1 975. 
-My attention has been drawn to an article in today's  Financial Review  dealing with prosecutions on consumer protection matters under the Trade Practices Act. The article contains 3 wild and inaccurate statements. Firstly, it is alleged that I refused to consent to the prosecution of a tyre company. I have never been asked by the Trade Practices Commission to give such consent in respect of a tyre company. Secondly, it is alleged that I refused to consent to the prosecution of a medical insurance fund. Again I have never been asked by the Commission to give my consent to such a prosecution. Thirdy it is alleged that there are a number of consumer protection cases in the pipeline awaiting my consent. The situation is that since I assumed Ministerial responsibility for the Trade Practices Act I have been asked to give consent on 6 occasions. On 2 occasions I have given that consent. On 2 occasions I have declined to give that consent. In respect of those two decisions I received no representations from any of the parties involved. On one occasion a prosecution was put to me on the eve of the expiry of the limitation period, in circumstances in which it was impossible to make a rational decision in the time available. I will make a decision in respect of the final case when the submission has been put to me in a more detailed form. My attitude generally to prosecutions on consumer protection matters is that my consent will be given, and given freely, in appropriate cases. 
I am not in a position to reply in detail to the honourable gentleman's question. 
I will have inquiries made and I will give him a more detailed reply later today. 
I assume that the honourable gentleman's question arises out of a meeting of the Industries Assistance Commission's staff, which was reported in the  Canberra Times  this morning. I have been asked certain things as a result of that meeting. I can give an assurance that there will be no redundancies or retrenchments of any IAC staff. The question of any transfers or other rearrangements is still under consideration. I can assure the House that there is no question of the IAC being treated differently from any other department or any other statutory commission in the context of the Government's review of the continuing operations and the continuing needs of statutory bodies. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on domestic refrigerators, washing machines and clothes dryers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to extend the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Act 1966-1974 for a further period of 12 months from 1 January 1976 pending examination by the Government of the Industries Assistance Commission report on nitrogenous fertilizers. Because of the importance of nitrogenous fertilizers in many areas of rural production the Government feels that the Act should be extended rather than held in abeyance until a decision has been made on the report. The Act was previously extended for a similar period in 1974. 
Subsidy is paid on the imported nitrogenous fertilizers under certain circumstances. Last year new anti-dumping legislation was passed by Parliament and the anti-dumping provisions of the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Act have been amended to make them compatible with the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act 1975. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House is intended to give effect to the Government's announced intention of reintroducing the phosphate fertilizer bounty for a period from 1 1 February 1976 to 30 June 1977. An interim report on the matter has been received from the Industries Assistance Commission and it is anticipated that the final report from the Commission will be received later in the year. This extension will allow consideration of the Commission's report before the proposed bounty period expires. 
Because stocks of higher priced phosphatic fertilizers were held by resellers at the commencement of the bounty period provision has been made for sales of this stock to end users to attract bounty. Without this provision such stocks could only be disposed of at a substantial loss by the reseller. Similar provisions were included when the rate of bounty was varied in 1970. Opportunity has been taken to change to metric expression of weight at the appropriate rates of bounty. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
-The drafting and preparation of such standards are currently undertaken by the Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council and also by the Standards Associations of Australia. The Food Standards Committee has already issued a number of standards relating to foodstuffs and is currently working on detailed standards relating to the date stamping of food packages. When these have been completed my Department will consider the possibility of making such standards, which when they come from the committees would only be advisory, mandatory. In the course of considering whether such standards should be mandatory, adequate time will be allowed for consultation with industry and with those in the community who are obliged to bear the cost of complying with the standards. 
For the information of honourable members I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on Aerospace Industry, Hosiery, Financing Promotion of Rural Products (Interim Report: Export Inspection of Rural Products), Rural Reconstruction and Cellulose Acetate Flake. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Industries Assistance Commission on sheets and plates of iron or steel-import restrictions; and precision ground steel ball bearingstariff quota. 
I request that the question be put forthwith without debate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-The method of announcing this decision was chosen not with any purpose of avoiding parliamentary debate. There will be adequate opportunities for debate because of an indication given to the House by the honourable member for Port Adelaide regarding debates on tariff proposals. There will be adequate opportunities for this Parliament to debate tariff matters generally and for members of the Opposition to debate them. The new procedures for handling LAC reports are designed not to limit the opportunity for consumer and business groups to present their views to the Government but rather to facilitate them. With the introduction of a procedure for draft reports it will be possible, when the draft reports are published, for business, consumers and other interested organisations to put their views not only to the IAC and thereby have them taken into account when the final report of the IAC is delivered to the Government but also to make them known to the Government at an earlier date, and in particular to relevant industry Ministers. Far from these procedures shutting off the opportunity for comment and participation, the Government believes they will facilitate that. It also believes that the new procedures will advance the rate of Government decisions on IAC reports. 
I shall answer the question. The remarks of the Commissioner of Corporate Affairs in Victoria were directed to a more particular aspect of corporate law and also the operation of taxation legislation. The broader question that the honourable gentleman raises that is the uniformity of corporate law and regulation throughout Australia, is under very active consideration by my Department and at appropriate stages it is consulting with the Attorney-General's Department. I hope that it will be possible for the Government to give an indication of its attitude at a very early stage. I do not want to say anything further other than that I am in consultation with the various State Ministers responsible and in due course I hope to be in a position soon to make specific recommendations to the Government. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is no. However, it is the intention of the Government to establish such a committee and when this is done and when the terms of reference have been settled the names of the persons who constitute the committee will be made public. I will not give an assurance that the majority of the persons on the committee will represent consumer interests. There will be some people on the committee representing consumer interests. There will also be people on the committee representing other interests as is appropriate having regard to the nature of the Trade Practices Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report was received on 1 December 1975. 
It has been considered by relevant departments. 
The report will be released when the Government's decision on the Commission's recommendation is announced. 
-My attention has not been drawn to the article in the  Financial Review  although I am aware of litigation in the South Australian Supreme Court involving the company mentioned by the honourable gentleman. It is true that the Attorney-General has sought leave on behalf of the Commonwealth to intervene in that case because the case involves  inter se  questions, namely the operation of the Trade Practices Act and State consumer protection legislation in South Australia. It would clearly not be appropriate for me as a Commonwealth Minister to offer comment on the rights, liabilities or otherwise of individual parties involved in litigation in a State court. I can, however, assure the honourable gentleman that the question of the rationalisation of the operation of Part V of the Trade Practices Act and State consumer protection legislation was specifically covered in the coalition parties election policy statement on consumer protection. I have already raised the matter in correspondence with State consumer affairs ministers and it will be one of the principal items on the agenda for a meeting of Commonwealth and State consumer affairs ministers to be held, I think in Adelaide, at the beginning of next month. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government does not consider that the previous procedures leading to decisions on Industries Assistance Commission reports dealing with long-term assistance were satisfactory. These procedures involved time being allowed after the receipt of the report for the report to be printed and released for comment by interested parties. 
This usually involved a period of at least2 months before the Government was able to proceed with its consideration of the Commission's recommendations and representations from interested parties. In the Government's view the time taken for the whole operation was far too long. 
The Government's new procedure provides that all Commission's reports dealing with long-term assistance matters will be released in draft form by the Commission, not just some as in the past. Consultation by interested parties with Ministers and departments may then take place at the same time as these interests are presenting their views to the Commission. 
On receipt of the Commission's final report departments now have a maximum of one month in which to finalise their advice to the Government before the Government proceeds to make its decision. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Government believes in effective Trade Practices legislation. That has been stated time and time again. Free and fair competition is a basic tenet of a free enterprise economy. The complexities of the market place have required successive governments to produce complex legislation to maintain that free and fair competition. However, complex legislation must always be kept under close review to ensure that the legal requirements and procedures always work efficiently and equitably in the public interest. For this reason the Government is conducting a general review of the Trade Practices Act. That review is a matter of high priority in my portfolio. Details of that review will be made known very soon. In the meantime, there arc some parts of the Act which need changing immediately. This Trade Practices Amendment Bill makes those changes. 
Firstly, the Bill amends the Trade Practices Act to make it clear that governments have the right to make public interest submissions to the Trade Practices Commission on authorisation applications under consideration by that body. The Commission will then be required by the existing provisions of the Act to consider those submissions together with all other submissions by interested parties. Both Federal and State governments will have the right to make such submissions. The position will then be analogous to wage determinations by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Secondly, the Bill deals with the relationship between the Trade Practices Act and the foreign takeovers legislation. The Trade Practices Act presently provides for special treatment of takeovers to which the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972-1974 applies. 
The Bill which I have now placed before this House discontinues that special treatment. It provides for all companies, whether domestic or foreign, to be subject to the same rules regarding the anti-competitive aspects of their takeover proposals. Foreign companies will be subject to additional requirements under the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act. The Government has taken this step because the previous arrangements for dealing with foreign takeovers gave foreign companies a favoured position under the 
Trade Practices Act. As to their effect on competition, foreign takeovers appeared to be judged in the light of less strict criteria than domestic takeovers. Furthermore, the different requirements of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act and the Trade Practices Act meant that foreign takeovers were not exposed to the same publicity as domestic takeovers. In many cases when a foreign and a domestic company were competing for the same target company, the differential treatment I have just mentioned handicapped the domestic company. That is, of course, incompatible with the policy of the Government towards foreign investment. 
Thirdly, the Bill fills a gap in the present jurisdiction of the Industrial Court to deal with matters arising under the Trade Practices Act. For these matters, the Industrial Court is to be given the power to make declaratory judgments and to issue prerogative writs in the nature of prohibition,  certiorari  or  mandamus.  The difficulties caused by the omission of these powers became apparent early in the operation of the Trade Practices Act. Last year, actions seeking the making of a declaratory order were commenced in a State and a Territory Supreme Court. Those courts, or the High Court, then were the only courts with such jurisdiction. This is incongruous, since otherwise the focus of the Act is upon proceedings in the Industrial Court. The previous Government announced in July last year that it proposed to remedy this defect in the Act, but had not done so before the change of Government. The power of the Industrial Court to make these declaratory orders will not extend to the provisions of Divison 2 of Part V of the Act, which imply certain conditions and warranties into consumer transactions. Litigation relying upon these provisions was always intended to take place in courts other than the Industrial Court, and that position will not be altered. 
The power to make declaratory orders will complement the existing procedures of the Act providing for clearance of certain restrictive trade practices. It will provide, in some cases, a procedure to obtain more certainty as to the operation of the Act. However, the exercise of the power will always be in the discretion of the court and will, of course, be subject to the restraints imposed by the constitutional requirements of the judicial power of the Commonwealth. Finally, the Bill makes certain other amendments to the Trade Practices Act, of a technical or consequential nature. I need not take up the time of the House describing all these matters. However, one matter cannot pass without comment. Most references in the Act to 'the 
Attorney-General' are to be replaced by references to 'the Minister'. This is, of course, a consequence of the present administrative arrangements of the Government. 
The ministerial portfolio of Business and Consumer Affairs was created so that business regulation by the Federal Government could be co-ordinated and administered with a practical orientation. It seeks to avoid the costs and inefficiencies, both to business and to government, which flow from multiple government agencies operating independently of each other. The creation of this portfolio is, we believe, a real step forward in the administration of reasonable and practical business regulation. Honourable members will be aware that the pre-election policy statement of the coalition parties foreshadowed the elimination of the discretionary power now available to the Minister under section 90(9) of the Act to compel the Trade Practices Commission to authorise mergers. As also indicated in that pre-election statement, one of the items to be considered by the review is the operation of the provisions of the Act dealing with mergers. The Government intends that any amendments to the Act flowing from the general review are to be introduced during the Budget session this year. That will be the appropriate time to give attention to the implementation of our undertaking regarding the discretionary power under section 90. 1 commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1976 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. The Bill, which contains 32 schedules, is necessary to enact tariff changes made since September 1974. All of the changes were incorporated in Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to 6 1976 which I introduced into the Parliament earlier this session. 
Honourable members will recall that at the time the proposals were introduced into the House I circulated a comprehensive summary in respect of each proposal which set out the nature of the changes in duty rates and the origin of each change. I have had prepared a consolidation of these summaries and copies may be obtained from the Bills and Papers Office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
in reply- I would like to thank those people who have participated in the debate. I would like particularly to thank the many speakers on the Government side of the House who were prepared to argue so strongly for the propositions contained in this legislation. I think it is very interesting that in legislation such as this, which raises an issue that has almost become an article of faith for the Leader of the opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  only two of his colleagues were prepared to contribute to the debate. It is inevitable that in a debate of this nature a certain amount of emotion will be generated. 
The speech that was made by the Leader of the Opposition was a good illustration of the sort of emotion that is generated in a debate like this. He even advanced the fatuous proposition that there was something extraordinary about the fact that the legislation had not been moved by a member of the National Country Party. He wanted to know why the legislation had been moved by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It might be a matter of information for the Leader of the Opposition to know that the bounty happens to be paid under an Act which is administered by me and administered by my Department. There is no break with precedent for this legislation to be moved by the Minister who is responsible for customs and excise matters. There is nothing unusual about this. This was the pattern; this was the procedure and the situation in the previous Government. 
So in bringing this debate to a conclusion, let us address ourselves to a few essential facts. The first essential fact to which we have to address ourselves is that when we look around Australia we see the economic wreckage after 3 years of Labor government. It is incontestable whether you reside in the city and represent a city electorate, whether you reside in and represent an outer metropolitan area or whether you reside in a rural ara, that the rural area of Australia has suffered most under the last 3 years of Labor government. That is an incontestable fact. That is not emotion; that is not humbug, but a fact. If honourable members opposite want proof of that fact, if they want the most vivid demonstration of ah of that fact, then they only have to look at the results of 13 December in the rural areas of Australia. The people who live in those areas, given the opportunity of saying what they thought of the treatment of rural industries in the rural areas of Australia by the Whitlam Government answered that question in no uncertain terms- so much so that it is absolutely impossible for the Opposition to find a front bench spokesman who represents rural interests to be its spokesman on rural matters. The Labor Party has made 2 attempts since it has been in opposition to find somebody to lead on rural matters. And who has it chosen? It has chosen the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who represents an urban electorate in Sydney. And now the Opposition has chosen a senator who represents all those farmers who live in Sutherland Shire in the metropolitan area of Sydney. Now, is that not a remarkable commentary on the absolute poverty of rural support and rural understanding in Australia? It demonstrates once again just how out of touch the Australian Labor Party is with a significant area of this country. It also demonstrates again the extent to which the Labor Party tried to divide the city and the country in Australia to an extent that we have never had before. 
One of the very bad legacies of 3 years of the Whitlam Government was the extent to which the city areas of Australia and the country areas of Australia were divided. For the first time in a long time the people who lived in the country areas of Australia genuinely felt, and they had good reason for genuinely feeling, that they were being neglected, that they were the poor relations of the Australian community. The Opposition does not like - 
-The Opposition does not like this being said. The Opposition does not like a few home truths about this legislation to be brought home. 
The honourable member for Blaxland asks me to defend the legislation. I ask the honourable member for Blaxland to defend what the Whitlam Government did to the rural industries of Australia during the 3 years that it was in government. When honourable members opposite can produce a cogent argument to justify what they did, to justify the attitude they took to those rural industries during the time that they were in government, then they can really talk about a serious debate on this issue. 
So fact No. 1 that we have to face in this debate is that the rural areas of Australia suffered greatly under the Whitlam Government. They had reason to complain, and complain they did on 13 December. Fact No. 2 about the superphosphate bounty, is that what the Government has done is essentially to implement the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. There is nothing magical about that. How many times have governments of both persuasions implemented recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission which related to giving protection and help to manufacturing industry? They have done so many times, and they will go on doing that. Yet do we hear any complaints from sections of the community who now complain because the Government has implemented recommendations of the IAC relating to rural industry. Of course we do not hear those complaints. This decision of the Government arises out of a report of the IAC which was requested under reference set by the previous Government. Now that central fact seems to have been avoided by the Opposition during the whole course of this debate. 
Only 3 Opposition speakers participated in the debate, as the honourable member for Hume reminds me. So intent on and so hung up by the question of the superphosphate bounty is the Opposition that it missed the simple, essential fact that this legislation results from a decision of the Government arising out of the recommendations of the Government's independent advisory body which operates across the whole spectrum of Australian industry. For the information of Opposition members who are present in the chamber tonight the Industries Assistance Commission does not exist solely in order to make recommendation on assistance to the rural areas of Australia. The IAC is a body which gives independent across the board advice to all sectors of industry in Australia. In picking up those recommendations by the IAC the Government is not giving selective and preferential treatment to the rural sector of Australia. It is not giving to the rural sector advantage and preference over the manufacturing industry. It is doing nothing more than it would do if it picked up some recommendations from the IAC relating to manufacturing industry. 
No argument has been advanced during this debate by the Opposition to justify the fervour with which the Leader of the Opposition attacked the legislation. He described it as morally indefensible. Now, apparently, it is morally indefensible for a government to adopt the recommendations of an independent advisory body which was established by legislation introduced and passed by the previous Government. On the next occasion when the Government adopts recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission relating to manufacturing industry, I will be most interested to see whether the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to come into this place with the same moral fervour and to say that the Government's action is morally bankrupt and economically indefensible. The fact of the matter is that the Leader of the Opposition has a blind spot with respect to the rural areas of Australia. I suggest that, in electoral terms, those in the rural areas of Australia have a massive blind spot so far as he is concerned. They will continue to have it until such time as the Opposition realises that the rural areas of Australia are in a condition of economic deprivation. Of course there are exceptions to that rule. 
The incontestable fact is that the economic wreckage caused by the administration of the previous Government is to be found most spectacularly in the rural areas of Australia where it was most concentrated. No argument which has been advanced in this debate by the Leader.of the Opposition, the honourable member for Blaxland or the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  can alter that fact. The honourable member for Blaxland and the honourable member for Fraser were the only 2 members of the Opposition who were interested enough to support the Leader of the Opposition in the debate. They were the only 2 members of the Opposition who were prepared to participate in the debate. 
Nothing that any of those 3 honourable gentlemen said can alter the fact that the rural areas of Australia are in a serious economic plight. 
This legislation, this measure by the Government picks up the recommendation of an independent advisory body on assistance to industry. There is nothing special about this action. There is nothing discriminatory about this legislation. We are merely implementing recommendations made as a result of a request made by the previous Government for a report on the superphosphate bounty. The arguments which have been advanced are without basis in fact and are founded upon the emotional hang-up that the Leader of the Opposition in particular has about this issue. 
So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in thanking those who have participated in the debate I once again draw your attention and the attention of the House to the fact that, on an issue on which the Leader of the Opposition has campaigned so strongly and about which he said so much, the most salient and most telling point is that only 2 members of his Party were prepared to participate in the debate. Only 2 members of his Party were prepared to stand with him and to argue against this legislation. I think that fact says something for the strength of his own position in his own Party. I think that it says something for the interest of members of the Opposition in rural matters. I think that it says something for their understanding of the issues that are really involved in this legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

16; 
not available; 
U.K. (15), Austria (1) for period March 1975 to February 1976. 
The above figures have been derived from an examination of records of all buses imported into Australia. There is no separate statistical record of imports of second-hand buses. 
I am aware of such an occurrence. I am advised that during the past 9 months there have been 2 similar occurrences- one, I think, off the Western Australian coast and one, I think, off the New South Wales coast near Newcastle. The investigations which followed the discovery to which the honourable gentleman referred revealed a considerable quantity of cannabis. The Bureau of Customs, in conjunction with the Department of Defence, has maintained a significant surveillance, both by air and by sea, of the coastline to prevent this type of occurrence. I am advised that during the past 14 days two such surveillance exercises have been carried out with the co-operation of the Department of Defence. 
by leave- Under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government the production of passenger motor vehicles and components was assisted by a number of local content plans supported by tariffs. The Labor Government reviewed these arrangements following a report by the Industries Assistance Commission of July 1974 on the industry and decided in November 1974 to replace the various model plans by a single 85 per cent company average local content plan supported by a tariff varying between 45 per cent and 35 per cent on completely built up vehicles depending upon whether the share of imports of total registrations was greater or less than 20 percent. It also decided to give the Nissan and Toyota companies the opportunity to become manufacturers under the new entrants provisions of the plan. These companies were encouraged to join Chrysler Australia Ltd and the Australian Industry Development Corporation to manufacture 4-cylinder engines at the Chrysler foundry at Lonsdale in South Australia. 
Following the continuing rapid build up of imported vehicles in late 1974 the previous Government in January 1975 imposed import controls at 90 000 units per year on imports of finished passenger motor vehicles and at 1974 levels on light commercial vehicles. The IAC reported on the continuing need for import restrictions in its report of October 1 975. Subsequently, the controls have been extended to the end of March 1976 pending a government decision on the passenger motor vehicle industry. Existing policy measures for passenger motor vehicles and components are designed essentially to develop an economic and efficient industry with high Australian content operating under levels of protection which are acceptable to the Australian community. This central objective of the Labor Government was basically the same as that of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, although the local content plan and tariff details were different. There is, however, a conflict between the objective of an economic and efficient industry and that of high Australian content. High costs of production in Australia, resulting mainly from the smallness of the domestic market and short production runs, mean that the higher the level of Australian content in vehicles the less competitive they become against imports and to the extent that higher protection is provided the greater is their price to consumers. Some relaxation of local content requirements is necessary if the Australian vehicle builders are to remain viable with acceptable levels of protection in the longer term. 
In its recent examination of motor vehicle policy, the Government has identified a number of elements of fundamental importance to a coherent and comprehensive policy. These are: 
The importance of the industry as an employer of labour and capital; 
The desire of consumers to have access to reasonably priced cars; 
The swing in demand towards smaller 4- cylinder vehicles which have been sourced in the main from overseas countries; 
The important place in the Australian market occupied by Japanese companies, especially Toyota and Nissan, which over a number of years have taken a large share of the market by catering for the change in consumption patterns towards smaller and more economical 4-cylinder vehicles; 
The importance of the passenger motor vehicle industry to South Australia; 
Rising production costs which are already causing local manufacturers to move away from the production of high local content vehicles; 
The need to keep costs of production as low as possible by avoiding fragmentation of production and taking advantage wherever possible of economies of scale; 
A General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) duty binding of 45 per cent on imports of passenger motor vehicles. 
There are 2 basic and related problems for motor vehicle policy in Australia. The first is that local manufacturing investment is basically in medium cars, which consumers no longer want to the same extent; the second is how to accommodate Japanese vehicles, for which consumers have shown increasing preference. Local manufacturers as presently structured have difficulty in competing against Japanese vehicles which are either imported fully assembled or are assembled locally from imported components. The Government's policy is directed towards gradual restructuring of local manufacturing to achieve increased competitiveness, and more freedom of choice for consumers. It will also provide Toyota and Nissan with the opportunity they are seeking to increase their local content from about 60 per cent to 85 per cent. All of the manufacturers will then compete on equal terms in the local market. 
The general approach of the Government's policy is to phase down gradually the current very high local content production of the established manufacturers while gradually building up the local content of Toyota and Nissan vehicles. These 2 companies wish to have a stable long term future here and have for some time pursued the goal of entry into the Australian market as manufacturers. The plans in force in the 1960s and early 1970s required manufacturers to incorporate specified levels of local content, either 95 per cent or 85 per cent, in each individual model. This left manufacturers little freedom to vary their product mixes in accordance with changing market demand. At the 95 per cent level, costs of local componentry became so high that vehicles were non-competitive with imports. If we returned to that level now, the position would be even worse, because of the sharp acceleration in Australian costs of production in recent years. The industry's prospects for long term viability would be seriously jeopardised. The plan introduced on 1 January 1975 required participants, after a 4-year transitional period, to achieve 85 per cent local content on a company average basis. Vehicle builders thus have a greater degree of freedom to purchase components from the most economic source while still being required to obtain most of their requirements from local manufacture. In addition, the averaging provision allows the vehicle builders flexibility in determining the local content levels of each model, and in deciding which components- panels, engines, etc.- they will source locally and which ones they will import. These provisions will assist manufacturers to contain costs and prices, and in the longer term reduce the industry's present need for a high level of protection against imports. The local industry's ability to contain cost increases should also, in time, enhance the prospects for significant exports of automotive products. The industry would then be in a better position to participate in current developments towards production of so-called 'world ' or ' regional ' cars. 
Two companies, Toyota and Nissan, applied to enter that plan. They had sought in 1972 to enter the former 85 per cent individual model plan, but the change of government in 1972 and the subsequent decision to review motor vehicle policy prevented those applications from being acted on. The 2 companies have secured a significant share of the local market, and they wish to have assurance of a stable and growing market here in the future. They see this as requiring a deepening of their involvement in the Australian industry, in which they have been solidly established as assemblers for some years. 
Because of the strong demand in the Australian market for Toyota and Nissan products, their exclusion from local manufacture would create a continuing need for import restrictions. This would be contrary to the GATT and could damage our relationship with Japan. On the other hand, their entry into manufacture would provide additional business for Australian component manufacturers and additional employment opportunities. It is therefore highly desirable that the two companies manufacture in Australia and become part of the local industry. To reach 85 per cent local content, Toyota and Nissan will need to procure 4-cylinder engines in Australia. At present there is no local manufacture of 4-cylinder engines, although General Motors- Holden's Pty Ltd has one under test and announced on 4 March 1976 that it proposes to go ahead with its production. 
The previous Government initiated discussions between Chrysler, Toyota, Nissan and the AIDC on the possible formation of a consortium to manufacture 4-cylinder engines at the Chrysler site in Adelaide. This was intended to make better use of existing resources, safeguard employment in Adelaide and achieve some Australian equity in the vehicle manufacturing sector of the industry. The assistance arrangements we have decided upon following our review are designed to achieve an appropriate balance between the competing objectives of maintaining a viable industry producing at high levels of local content and ensuring consumers access to reliable, economical and reasonably priced vehicles.However, if a viable motor vehicle industry is to continue in Australia considerable changes will be needed in the industry's structure and the nature of manufacturing operations in Australia. 
It is the desire of Government to ensure that necessary changes in the industry are brought about in a way that can be sustained by the economy. The Government's policy has been developed to ensure change occurs in a manageable and controlled manner. Consideration is being given to appropriate structural adjustment measures to assist an orderly transition. The Government has decided that its long term objectives for the passenger motor vehicle industry can best be achieved by an 85 per cent company average local content plan supported by appropriate tariff arrangements. In order to ensure the stability required for industry planning, the 85 per cent plan will operate until 31 December 1984. 
While deciding to support the industry by an 85 per cent local content plan the Government has decided to introduce some modifications to the plan recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report of 31 October 1975 on  Motor Vehicles- Import Restrictions.  Specifically, the Government has accepted the IAC recommendations that duty concessions be available under the plan without the need to pursue complementation arrangements, that is, existing manufacturers' basic by-law concession under the plan be increased to 15 per cent; that existing reversion control procedures for components be abolished on 31 December 1976; that local content of components be determined after a 2-year phase-in period on the basis of the cost to the vehicle producer less the value of any parts imported by the component manufacturer; and that plan participants should have the option of including exported vehicles in their calculations of local content or excluding such production from the plan altogether. In addition to these modifications to the plan, the Government has also decided that, as the basic by-law concession has been extended from 10 per cent to 15 per cent to cover all imported components, complementation concessions will no longer be available. Consistent with the decision to include actual content in local content calculations the Government has decided that component manufacturing programs would cease from 1 January 1978. The Government will also continue to encourage all moves by manufacturers designed to increase component commonality. The basic by-law concessions available to new entrants under the plan will be the same as those decided by the previous Government. 
The Government has approved the applications of AMI Limited, on behalf of Toyota and Nissan (Australia) Pty Ltd to enter the 85 per cent company average local content plan, subject to these companies sourcing their 4-cylinder engines under arrangements that are acceptable to the Government. In relation to the proposed Adelaide engine consortium on which extensive negotiations have already taken place, the Government would like to see a rational development of 4-cylinder engine production in Australia rather than fragmented production in several locations. Consequently, the Government has authorised the Minister for Industry and Commerce to initiate discussions with both established and prospective new manufacturers to explore possible arrangements for production of all Australian requirements of 4-cylinder engines, including the proposal for their production in Adelaide. 
The Government wishes to finalise these discussions as quickly as possible in order that the industry will be able to plan ahead. Accordingly the question of 4-cylinder engine production will be reconsidered by the Government by the end of April. The Government wishes to make it quite clear that the AIDC is free to decide on the basis of its normal criteria whether or not to participate in any 4-cylinder engine consortium that may be formed. The Government has also accepted the recommendation of the IAC relating to long term tariff arrangements applying to imports of passenger motor vehicles. From 1 January 1978 the tariff trigger mechanism will operate so that when the 12 months moving average of imported passenger vehicle registrations falls to 20 per cent, or below, of total registration of passenger motor vehicles, the duty rate on such vehicles will fall to 35 per cent. When the 12 months moving average of imports rises above 20 per cent of registrations, the tariff will rise to 45 per cent. A differential of 10 per cent between duties applying to completely built-up or cb.u. vehicles and completely knocked-down or c.k.d. vehicles will be maintained in the long term. 
To prevent any short term disruption in the passenger motor vehicle industry the Government has accepted the recommendations of the IAC in regard to short term arrangements. This means that quantitative restrictions on completely built-up passenger vehicle imports will continue at the same level as at present, that is, 90 000 units per annum, until 3 1 December 1976 at which time they will cease, and quantitative restrictions on light commercial vehicles will be lifted immediately. Imports of completely builtup passenger vehicles will be dutiable at a rate of 45 per cent up to and including 31 December 1977. The Government has also decided that tariff quotas and the 30 per cent tariff completely knocked-down vehicle imports will be retained until 31 December 1976. On 1 January 1977 the duty of completely knocked-down vehicles will be increased to 35 per cent and quotas will be removed. Existing arrangements in respect of New Zealand will not be changed pending completion of the present negotiations with New Zealand. Goods of Canadian origin will be dutiable at the general rates of duty except for those goods which currently receive special preferential treatment. 
The honourable member's question contains a mixture of assertions and speculation. Likewise it invites a response in the realm of speculation and opinion. I will give detailed consideration to the question and give him an appropriate answer as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no prohibition of imported wines to which sugar has been added. 
No. However, Australian States prohibit the sale of such wine. 
by leave- This Government has already announced that it intends to review the Trade Practices Act and its operation. I have stated to this House in recent weeks that this review is a matter of high priority in my portfolio and that I intended to make details of the review known as soon as possible. I can now inform this House of the establishment of a committee to undertake this review, and the committee's terms of reference. The committee is to be composed as follows:  Mr T.  B. Swanson, formerly  Deputy Chairman  of Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd, Chairman;  Mr J.  A. Davidson, Managing Director, The Commonwealth Industrial Gases Ltd; Professor A. Kerr, Professor of Economics, Murdoch University, Perth- until recently  Chairman  of the Consumer Affairs Council of Western Australia;  Mr H.  Schrieber- solicitor, Sydney, member of the firm of Stephen, Jaques and Stephen; and  Mr A.  G. Hartnell, Senior Assistant Secretary, Restictive Trade Practices and Consumer Protection Branch, Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
Honourable members will recognise the great talent and wealth of experience in this Committee. The Government is grateful that these members have accepted this appointment.  Mr Swanson,  as  Chairman,  brings to the deliberations of the Committee his wide business background and experience. He has no current association with companies that may be involved in matters before the Trade Practices Commission. Additionally,  Mr J.  V. McKeown, First Assistant Commissioner in the Trade Practices Commission, has been appointed by the Government as a consultant to the Committee to assist it in its deliberations. 

 Mr Speaker, the terms of reference of this Committee are quite lengthy; so I seek the leave of the House to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1973 I present the eighth annual report on the operation of that Act for the period 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1975. 
I shall consider whether such an approach to my counterparts in the States would be appropriate and when I reach a decision on it I shall let the Leader of the Opposition know. 
-Last week I issued a statement which indicated that I expected shortly to be in a position to make a submission to Cabinet on the appropriate role for the Commonwealth government in the corporate law and securities industry area generally. During the past 2 or 3 months I have had a number of informal and helpful discussions with State Ministers, the most recent of which took place in Hobart with the Tasmanian Attorney-General,  Mr Miller.  My Department has done a considerable amount of work on this subject. Cabinet will have a submission from me in the not too distant future. After Cabinet has considered the submission, the Government's attitude in principle in this area will be enunciated. I should make 2 other comments: The Government will not proceed without full and formal discussion with the States, nor will any legislation that the Government proposes in this area be proceeded with without adequate consultation with those in the commercial community who might be obliged to comply with it. 
-I assure the Leader of the Opposition that in preparing my submission to Cabinet I shall take into account all matters that I honestly believe to be relevant in this field. In particular, I shall take into account the need to have uniformity and also the need to reach a legislative arrangement throughout the Commonwealth which takes account of the legitimate views that the States express on this matter. 
The substantive law in Australia regarding partnerships is, as the honourable member for Newcastle would know, a matter for State governments and not for the Federal government. The question of the relationship between the honourable member for Macarthur and any other persons is a matter that will ultimately be resolved by courts of law and is not a matter upon which I think it is either relevant or appropriate for me to make a comment. 
I am aware of the findings of the Senate Select Committee. I have indicated already, in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Burke, what the current situation is regarding this Government's attitude to Commonwealth involvement in this area generally. I think the honourable member for Banks would be aware that recently, in fact during the past 4 weeks, new and strengthened legislation in the securities area came into operation in 4 Australian States. 
It is some weeks since I last read sections of that report and I cannot honestly say from my own recollection whether it refers to the particular company named by the honourable member. The question of legislation already has been the subject of a number of questions earlier in question time. I have indicated already the attitude that the Government is taking currently in this area and I have nothing to add. 
in reply- In closing the debate on this statement I express my thanks to those on both sides of the House who participated in the debate and to record the fact that there has been an extremely wide measure of support for the plans announced by the Government. That support is found not only in the Government's ranks but also in the ranks of the Opposition and in a wide sector of the community. I record the appreciation of the Government for the contribution made to the development of the Government's motor vehicle policy by my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton). 
The Government's proposals have 3 essential principles. The first is the maintenance of an 85 per cent local content plan calculated on a company average basis. Secondly, the Government has approved the entry of the Nissan and Toyota companies into the local content plan subject to satisfactory sourcing arrangements to be concluded. In this connection I remind the House that in the statement there was express reference to a conference to be attended and convened by the Minister for Industry and Commerce involving the 3 local participants and the 2 new entrants. The third element of the policy concerns the tariff arrangements. These ultimately involve a 45 per cent tariff on completely built-up vehicles and a 35 per cent tariff on completely knocked-down vehicles, operating on a trigger mechanism whereby those tariffs would apply once the share of imports exceeds 20 per cent. 
I think that all honourable members who contributed to this debate recognise that in framing a policy in the motor vehicle industry the 
Government has to achieve a balance between competing priorities. One of these priorities, of course, is to retain a viable local motor vehicle manufacturing industry, something to which we are very strongly committed. Secondly, we have to take account of the interests of consumers and the price they have to pay for vehicles. Thirdly, we have to take account of employment considerations. We have to adopt a policy which, whilst bringing about gradual changes and representing a retreat from the 95 per cent local content plan in the various low volume content plans of the 1960s, will achieve that change and that retreat in a way which is not disruptive to the industry. In the view of the Government, these proposals are the best method of achieving a balance. Nobody on the Government side asserts that they are perfect, but they are an honest endeavour by the Government to achieve a sensible balance between the competing elements. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  a former Minister for Manufacturing Industry, criticised the non-reversion decision. I point out to the honourable gentleman that this decision is a logical consequence of the scaling down of the present participants from 95 per cent to 85 per cent and correspondingly a phasing up by the new entrants, Nissan and Toyota, from the threshold levels of local content with which they will need to comply to the ultimate level of 85 per cent. The former Minister for Manufacturing Industry failed to understand that issue. 
I refer to the very understandable interest taken by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  in this matter. He referred to the position of International Harvester. I specifically refer the honourable gentleman to the concluding paragraphs of the statement which draw attention to the Temporary Assistance Authority machinery which was available to any sector of the industry which could substantiate on the basis of normal criteria a prima facie case for the need for additional temporary assistance. The only other comment I would make is that the report of the Industries Assistance Commission, which in large measure has been adopted by the Government for commercial vehicles, was deliberately designed to facilitate the expansion of International Harvester in the area of heavy commercial vehicles. The Government adopted in the main the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in that area. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: Customs TariffProposals No. 7 ( 1 976 ). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1 966- 1 974. The Proposals give effect to the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission  in its reports on Commercial Motor Vehicles, Parts and Accessories and Motor Vehicles- Import Restrictions. 
The effect of the decision on commercial motor vehicles is that a rate of 25 per cent will apply to vehicles having a gross vehicle weight of 2.72 tonnes or more, except for assembled general purpose vehicles having a gross vehicle weight of 10.16 tonnes or more for which a rate of 22.5 per cent will apply. Commercial vehicles having a gross weight of less than 2.72 tonnes will be dutiable at 35 per cent if assembled or 25 per cent if unassembled. The new duties will operate from tomorrow. 
The decision on motor vehicles-import restrictions provides for tariff quotas on unassembled passenger motor vehicles to cease on 1 January 1977 and for the long term rate of 35 per cent to become effective from that date. The present duties applicable to assembled passenger motor vehicles and the related quantitative restrictions will continue to apply. A comprehensive summary of the changes is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I appreciate the moderation with which the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has raised this matter. Given that on the basis of information that has obviously come into his possession he might have been tempted to act in a more cavalier fashion, I appreciate his moderation. I hope to give to the matter he raised the same degree of moderation and objectivity. Could I correct the honourable member on a number of matters of general principle relating to the Trade Practices Act. The Act is administered under the Administrative Arrangements Ordinance. With the exception of Part X and with the exception of certain sections dealing with legal aid and the appointment of personnel to the Trade Practices Tribunal, it is now administered by me. 
This House presently has before it legislation giving effect to the transfer of responsibility from the Attorney-General to me. One of the responsibilities that I have under the Act relates to the question of whether consent shall be given to the institution of criminal proceedings- I stress 'criminal proceedings'- regarding alleged breaches of the consumer practice provisions of the Trade Practices Act. That is a discretion which was inserted deliberately in the Act at the same time it was passed through this Parliament. It was inserted deliberately by the former Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  and from the time the Act came into operation that discretion has been administered having regard to policy considerations as well as legal considerations. It was not meant to be a provision whereby the Minister responsible for the Act in the previous Government- the AttorneyGeneral automatically consented to every submission. To use the word 'veto' in respect of the exercise of the discretion which is available under that Section of the Act is both to misunderstand the nature of the discretion that is available and also to misstate the circumstances in which the veto might be exercised. 
During the course of his remarks the honourable member for Blaxland used the words: 'This is yet another example of action by the Government to frustrate the intention of the Trade Practices Act'. The intention of the Trade Practices Act was to eliminate restrictive trade practices, to give protection to consumers so far as the provisions of the Act were concerned, and in appropriate cases to provide for criminal prosecution. I would be the last to deny that in certain cases it is appropriate that criminal proceedings should be taken. In other cases it is inappropriate that criminal proceedings should be taken. The matters which the honourable gentleman put to me tonight relate, as he alleges, to a particular case. The natural temptation for a person in my situation is to join issue with the honourable gentleman and to canvass the merits of that case and of the allegation that he makes. I would like to point out to the honourable gentleman that if that practice is adopted the merits of the exercise by a Minister of any discretion which involves the institution of criminal proceedings then become a matter for debate in the Parliament. 
-The honourable gentleman asked a series of questions and I am endeavouring to answer them. I have taken the view, on previous occasions when matters of this nature have been raised, that it is inappropriate to canvass the particulars of individual cases which might be presented to me for consent. On an earlier occasion, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  asked me a question relating to certain allegations that appeared in a newspaper regarding the exercise of my discretion. On that occasion, I indicated that I was not prepared to canvass the merits of particular cases, although I was prepared to indicate that since I had assumed responsibility for this Act on certain occasions I had consented to the institution of criminal proceedings and on other occasions I had declined to consent to the institution of criminal proceedings. 
The particular case that the honourable gentleman raises is, of course, for reasons which will be obvious to the House and which no doubt are obvious to the honourable gentleman who has raised it and other members of the Opposition, capable of having a certain political connotation. Questions are asked by the honourable member for Blaxland. He asks me whether I declined to give my consent to a particular prosecution. He names a company. I can inform the honourable gentleman that I did decline to give my consent to that prosecution. I did so because I believed that the circumstances of the case were inappropriate for the use of the criminal penalties provided by the Act. This is a discretion which is properly available to me. It is a discretion which on this occasion was exercised in good faith and with full knowledge that if the circumstances of the matter were ventilated- it is interesting to note that they have been ventilated a day after I made my decision on the case- it inevitably would lead to questions being asked in the political arena. Notwithstanding that, I took the view that in the circumstances of this case the institution of criminal proceedings was inappropriate. I stand by that decision and make no apology whatever for saying that that discretion was exercised in good faith. It was exercised in my belief that the criminal sanctions that are contained in the Trade Practices Act should not be used blindly as a blunt instrument to prosecute as many companies as can be prosecuted and that the criminal penalties should be used with discretion and with care, bearing in mind that they are extremely heavy penalties in the consumer protection area - 
Bearing in mind, for example, that they do not have any parallel in the United States of America on a federal level and that they should be used with discretion and with consideration - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I remind the honourable member for Chifley that on the wall there is a clock with a timing light. If he keeps interjecting in such a manner, he will no longer be in this chamber. 
To the specific question raised by the honourable member for Blaxland the answer is yes, I did decline to give consent to this prosecution. I declined to give consent to this prosecution because I did not regard it as being an appropriate case for the giving of ministerial consent. In the process of answering that question, I would just like to make it perfectly clear that in so doing I was exercising a discretion which is properly available to me under the Act. 
If the honourable member for Grayndler will give me just a moment to finish my words, I remind him that it is a discretion which is given to me by, I believe, section 163 of the Act. 
It is a discretion which, since the establishment of this Act, has been exercised both in a policy context and in a legal context. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Industries Assistance Commission on Miscellaneous Industrial Machinery and Fruitgrowing. 

 - Mr Speaker, I require the debate to be extended. 
Opposition members- No. 
During the course of the adjournment debate tonight the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  canvassed a number of matters relating to the State election in New South Wales. 
It is quite obvious that the tactics used by the Opposition tonight - 
My attention has been drawn to conflicts of approach in interpretation between the Commissioners for Corporate Affairs in Victoria and New South Wales on the one hand, and between them and the administration of the Companies Ordinance in the Australian Capital Territory on the other hand, regarding procedures recently adopted by the accounting profession concerning tax effect accounting, equity accounting and prior period adjustments. The position as I understand it is that the substantive requirements of the Companies Acts in New South Wales and Victoria and the Companies Ordinance in the Australian Capital Territory are the same insofar as these matters are concerned, whereas the interpretations placed on the application of those substantive provisions differ. I do not regard it as my role, nor would I regard it as proper for me as the Minister responsible for the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance, to express a view as to which interpretation is correct. It is an extremely complicated issue and one which might ultimately result in litigation. However, the fact that different approaches are adopted in these 3 places does highlight the need, I believe, for uniformity in the administration of company regulation in this area. I think it is quite intolerable that companies which operate across State and territorial borders should have to be faced with a situation of lodging differing sets of company accounts in different offices. This situation is undoubtedly a matter that members of the Government will have in mind when they have the opportunity to consider a submission on this matter that I will be presenting shortly. 
-I understand that the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who is responsible for the preparation of the White Paper, regards the honourable gentleman's suggestion as having a great deal of merit and that the procedure the honourable gentleman requests in fact will be followed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Two requests have been made. The first on 1 S January 1974 by the  Hon.  Ian Smith M.L.A., Victorian Minister for Agriculture. The second on 19 February 1975 by  Mr K.  R. Brown, Secretary of Lactos Pty Ltd, Burnie, Tasmania. 
Yes. However under Section 17(1) of the previous Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act the Minister has the authority to revoke dumping duties. There is no requirement for the matter to be referred to the IAC and it has not been the practice to do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is contained in Attachment A. 
Although the occupational status of bankrupts is recorded statistically, the information is not maintained separately. Included in the statistics are the occupations of deceased persons whose estates are administered in bankruptcy, and of persons whose affairs are dealt with under the Bankruptcy Act without sequestration, upon their entering into compositions, or executing Deeds of Arrangement or Deeds of Assignment with their creditors. 
In other words, the occupational statistics which are maintained cover that group of persons who are in fact bankrupt, or who, for practical purposes, might be regarded as bankrupt. It is not practicable to isolate the occupations of bankrupts from the occupations of the other persons mentioned. 
Attachment B, which consists of two schedules, contains broad details of the occupational categories of this group of persons for the 25 years to and including 1974-75. 
The first schedule covers the years 1950-5 1 to 1971-72. A detailed dissection of the information contained in this document will be found in the Eighth Schedule to the Annual Reports of the Attorney-General on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act for the years concerned. 
Commencing with the year 1972-73 there was a change in the method of recording occupational information. The second schedule to Attachment B reflects the change. The Ninth Schedule, Part A, to the Annual Reports of the AttorneyGeneral for the years concerned, gives a precise break-up of the broad groupings shown in this document. 
Pan B of the Ninth Schedule to the Attorney-General's Annual Reports which deals with industry classifications would, I think, also be of interest to the honourable member. 
ATTACHMENT A 
Total number of bankruptcies during the years 1950-5 1 to 1974-75- 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on spectacle and sun glass frames, sun glasses, etc. 
I move: 
At end of paragraph (c), omit 'and '. 
After paragraph (c), insert the following paragraph:- '(ca) by omitting from sub-section (9) the words 'Subject to sub-section (10), where-' and substituting the word 'Where-'; and'. 
The amendments suggest an extremely small addition, once again to clarify the drafting of the principal Act, and arise out of the same circumstances as I described in relation to the amendment I moved to clause 4. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
The differing views of the present Government and the present Opposition regarding the Superior Court were canvassed last year at some length during the debates on the Superior Court Bill. Whilst I respect the strength of feeling in the views expressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on this matter- they are well known to the members of the Government- the Government took the view in drafting this legislation that, as it was not the current policy of the Government to proceed with the establishment of the Superior Court of Australia, as a logical consequence references to the Superior Court in the Trade Practices Act were irrelevant and ought to be replaced by references to the Industrial Court, which does have the jurisdiction. The question of jurisdiction in matters arising under Federal laws, of course, is a matter for my colleague the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  To that extent, I do not wish to pursue on behalf of the Government the debate relating to the Superior Court in the context of this amendment to the Trade Practices Act. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  Some sections of the media have reported portion of an answer I gave yesterday to a question asked by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  as indicating that it was my intention to present a separate Cabinet submission on the subject of tax effect accounting and the current differences in approaches that exist to that matter throughout Australia. It was not my intention to give that impression. It is not my intention to present a separate Cabinet submission dealing with that particular aspect of company law regulation. I realise on reading my answer to the question that my final sentence was open to that interpretation. I therefore take the opportunity to correct any ambiguity that may have been contained in the answer. The submission to which I referred in the final sentence of my answer is a submission which I propose to present to Cabinet very shortly covering the appropriate role for the Commonwealth in the whole area of company law and securities industry regulation. In all other respects I confirm both the tenor and the detail of the answer that I gave to the honourable member for Barton. 
Under the guise of asking this House to talk about an alleged double income tax arrangement which simply is not going to exist the Opposition gives us the opportunity to talk about the New South Wales election. I can assure the members of the Opposition that those on this side of the House, particularly those of us who come from New South Wales, are only too delighted to talk about the sorts of issues that will be involved in the election in New South Wales next Saturday. This discussion does give us the opportunity to direct our minds to the type of government that New South Wales needs. Above all, the type of government that New South Wales needs after 1 May is a government that is going to co-operate with the current Federal Government, a government that shares the objectives which the Australian people and not least the people of New 
South Wales so overwhelmingly endorsed on 13 December. It is little wonder that the New South Wales Opposition Leader is desperately keen to dissociate himself from his own Federal leader. 
What an extraordinary contrast this election presents to the picture that we had in 1973. Let us go back to the New South Wales election in 1973, to those halcyon days when it was believed by the Labor Party that the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was a vote winner, when it was believed by the Labor Party throughout Australia, whether one was a Federal member of Parliament or a State member of Parliament, that the way to success, the way to the voter's heart was to associate yourself with the Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party- the then Prime Minister of Australia. Those of us who live in New South Wales will remember all those Australian Labor Party advertisements in 1973. One could be forgiven for believing that the honourable member for Werriwa was then the Leader of the New South Wales Labor Party. One hardly ever heard a mention of poor old  Mr Hills  who was then the Leader of the State Opposition. At every turn, in every advertisement, on every television screen there was the beaming face of the Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party- the very leader that  Mr Wran  now disowns, the very leader that  Mr Wran  has told to stay out of New South Wales, the very leader who is lead in the saddle bag as far as the New South Wales Labor Party is concerned. 
If there is one thing that this discussion has done today it has been to remind this House and I hope many people throughout Australia and in particular the people of New South Wales that it is one and the same Party. One must admire the persistence of the honourable member for Werriwa unwanted, uninvited, undesired in New South Wales by his colleagues at the present time. He is not to be restrained. If you cannot be invited, then invite yourself! The way he invites himself is to sponsor a matter of public importance in this place. Surely he would have got the message by now that he is not wanted in New South Wales, and the gratuitous interventions by him in the election campaign in New South Wales will only do his colleagues in that State damage. But no, the honourable member for Werriwa will never learn. He is very good at inviting himself when he is not wanted. 
We on this side of the House welcome the discussion of this matter of public importance. We welcome the opportunity to repudiate the claims of double taxation which have been made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and I think by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the Opposition spokesman on financial matters in this place. The truth is that the revenue sharing arrangements, the new federalism arrangements, unveiled by the Opposition, as it then was towards the end of last year, are certainly the most dramatic and the most significant development in government relations since Federation. When implemented these proposals will end for all time the begging bowl of the Premiers Conference. They will end for all time the wrangling that has gone on between Federal and State governments over the years. They will give to the States and also to local government throughout Australia the financial capacity to discharge the legal responsibility of those two levels of government. 
Every member of this House knows this and there can be no better example than the many honourable gentlemen who remain opposite and who were in government until November of last year. They know only too well that if the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States had continued to exist without amendment and without change in accordance with our federalism policies then the States would ultimately have become mere puppets of the Commonwealth Government. They would have become mere agencies of the Commonwealth Government and the Commonwealth Government, through having got all the financial control of this country, would have been in a position to dictate to the States. That is a state of affairs which is repudiated by us on this side of the House. Let it not be forgotten that that is not repudiated by the Leader of the Opposition. He is an implacable opponent of the States. He found the States to be a nuisance when he was in office. He still finds the States to be a nuisance and that is another reason why  Mr Wran  does not want him in New South Wales. How could  Mr Wran  parade him in New South Wales as his great Federal leader when he knows very well that the people of New South Wales and the Australian people generally, know that when the honourable member for Werriwa was the Prime Minister of this country he set about a policy and he set in train a series of events which would ultimately have led to a situation in which the States would be the mere agencies of the Commonwealth Government? 

 Mr Wran knows that that is a state of affairs unacceptable to the people of New South Wales. He knows that our revenue sharing arrangements have drawn strong support from the people of New South Wales. He knows the attitude of his own colleague  Mr Dunstan  in South 
Australia, another State Labor leader who not so long ago found it very inconvenient to invite the honourable member for Werriwa to come to his State.  Mr Wran  knows that our policy has appeal because people see in it a genuine attempt to end the wrangling that has gone on over the years between the Commonwealth and the States, a genuine attempt to give financial reality to the Australian federation. It is the most significant development in government relations that has occurred since Federation and will end for all time the inevitable drift, the inevitable concentration of power in Canberra. That is what this debate is all about. It is all about the fact that  Mr Wran  knows in his heart of hearts that his own federal leader is an electoral liability.  Mr Wran  will not thank the Leader of the Opposition for raising today this matter of public importance. All it has done has been to remind this House again just how implacably opposed is the Federal Labor Party, and in particular its leader, to decent revenue sharing arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States; how irrevocably committed the Federal Labor Party still is to policies of centralism; how absolutely blind it is to the developments that have occurred in the Australian community over the past 10 years; how absolutely insensitive it is to the need of State and local governments to have the financial capacity to discharge their legal and constitutional responsibilities. 
Far from the new federalism being a retreat into the past, it is in fact a recognition that government developments in federations all over the world have demonstrated that if you believe that all the problems can be solved by putting all the responsibility in the centre, you are very mistaken. The policies to which the Leader of the Federal Opposition is committed in 1976 are the policies that were tried by successive administrations in the United States and found to be wanting. The policies that he espouses were the policies of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations in the United States and they were found not to work. We all remember  President  Johnson's talk about the great society. He believed that if all power was concentrated in Washington and everything was handed out from Washington, bypassing all of the States and local agencies, the problem was solved. Of course, what happened was that they created the most expensive inefficient federal bureaucracy in the history of the United States. They found to their concern and dismay that it did not work. Far from this Government's policy being a retreat, into the past, it is a recognition of present-day realities. It is the leader of the Opposition and that dwindling band of people who now sit behind him who are really living in the past as far as government relations in this country are concerned. 
in reply- I should like first to thank everybody who participated in this debate. Also, as this is the first opportunity I have had since assuming responsibility for the Trade Practices Act to speak on a substantive measure involving the operation of that Act I should like to make it clear so far as this Government is concerned, that whilst we are having a review of the Act's operation as indicated in our pre-election policy statement, it is our intention to retain the Trade Practices Act. We believe that essentially the provisions of the Trade Practices Act should be administered by a Trade Practices Commission that operates independently. 
I accept that in the context of debate on legislation of this nature and because it involves a consideration of business and consumer interests it is natural that the Opposition will take the opportunity to make a few political points about alleged conflicts that exist between the consumer interest and business interest aspects of my portfolio. I take no exception to that at all. I only wish that in the course of indulging in that acceptable political practice the Opposition would get a few of the facts right. The first honourable member on the Opposition side who got his facts wronghopelessly wrong- was the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is the Opposition spokesman on business and consumer affairs. He had the remarkable statement in his prepared speech- so it was no slip of the tongue under the provocation of the House- that the first anybody knew about a review of the Trade Practices Act was when the Governor-General's Speech was delivered. I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide that it was made plain in black and white- or if one likes, blue and white- in the pre-election policy statement of the coalition parties. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That is not a point of order. 
-I shall continue after that frivolous point of order which indicates the sensitivity of the honourable member for Port Adelaide on being exposed as a person who does not do his homework on an area for which he has responsibility. I suggest that the honourable member for Port Adelaide should leave wage indexation to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and ought to concentrate on business and consumer affairs. That is his responsibility in the Opposition. He ought to get his facts right too. The Liberal and National Country Parties made it very plain before the election- we put it down in writing- that we intended to carry out a review of the Trade Practices Act. There was nothing secret about this. We made it very clear that we were going to carry out a review and we indicated that there were S broad criteria that would influence that review. All of those criteria have been picked up in the terms of reference. 
Immediately after I became the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs I made it plain both in Press interviews and in a number of public speeches that our commitment to carry out that review remained. The impending review was given wide publicity. The terms of reference of the impending review were tabled in this House. The identity of the members of the review committee was made quite plain. At every stage the procedures that we have adopted for this review have been completely open. In fact, we have gone to considerable lengths to make the review of the Trade Practices Act well known to the public. Through paid advertisements in the Press we have invited public submissions to be made to the members of the Trade Practices Review Committee. This Review Committee is operating as an independent body. It will make recommendations to the Government. Only one member on that Committee could in any sense be regarded as being closely associated with me, and he of course is a senior member of my Department. He has served previous governments as a senior adviser in this area. 
-Mr Hartnell. He is the senior adviser on trade practices and consumer protection. To suggest that nobody from my Department should be on the Committee would be a nonsense. To suggest that the Trade Practices Commission has been ignored in this matter is also a nonsense. One of the very first matters I discussed with the  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Commission at our first meeting after I became the Minister was the course of the review of the Trade Practices Act. A full time consultant from the Commission,  Mr McKeown,  who is a First Assistant Commissioner, is on this Committee. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  does not make any allegations or inferences; he collects a few names and a few companies, leaves the whole thing hanging in the air, and then says: 'I am not making any allegations or inferences'. That appears to be the style of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. But as has been made very plain by him, one of the members of the Trade Practices Review Committee is a solicitor from Sydney who is recognised as being extremely experienced and competent in this field. 
I make absolutely no apology for the fact that that person has been appointed to the Committee. I make no apology for the fact that he, together with 21 other people, happens to be a partner of my brother in a legal firm in Sydney, just as I would not have criticised the appointment of  Mr Justice  Dovey to the Family Law Court if that appointment had been made by the previous Government. To suggest that this gentleman, because of that association, should be disqualified from sitting on this Committee is an absolute nonsense. I do not intend, in the administration of this Act, to be deterred from appointing people of ability and people of recognised competence to these positions because of the coincidence of the type to which I have referred. These allegations about smoke-filled rooms and the undertakings given over port and cigars sound very lurid. They might go down well in some quarters but I think the time has long since passed when the members of the Labor Opposition ought to adopt a more realistic attitude to these matters. Of course effective legislation in the trade practices area is necessary in Australia. Nobody disputes that. I do not dispute that. It will not be the intention of the Government parries or of this Government to dispute that, and any suggestion that we are disputing it is an absolute nonsense. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith made an absolutely remarkable speech. If the honourable member has any suggestions of impropriety or allegations to make against me I would be happy to receive them. I can assure the House and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that in respect of no matter at any time since becoming the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs have I transgressed, exceeded or abused any of the powers that have been given to me under the Act. I am quite happy at any time to receive either inside or outside this House any allegations that the honourable gentleman wishes to make. But like the honourable member for Port Adelaide, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith does not get his facts right. He talked about me stopping a prosecution of BP Australia Ltd. I have never been asked to consent to a prosecution of British Petroleum. But it so happens- I think the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith ought to be aware of this- that proceedings against British Petroleum are afoot at present. They are proceedings taken by the Commission under the provisions of the Act. There is no suggestion that the Commission is being prevented from pursuing those proceedings because of lack of funds and there is absolutely no substance in the honourable gentleman's suggestion that I have intervened to stop the prosecution. Those proceedings are of such a character that I have no power to intervene in any way. So as well as getting his facts wrong the honourable gentleman's understanding of the Act is abysmally wrong. He ought to know that in respect of proceedings under Part IV of the Act the Minister has absolutely no capacity to intervene. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith ought to remember and the honourable member for Port Adelaide ought to realise that this Government is not the first government that has taken away from the Attorney-General administration of part of the Trade Practices Act. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who sits opposite me at present, by the administrative arrangements of the previous Government was given control over Part V of the Trade Practices Act. Were any cries raised then by the honourable member for Port Adelaide or the then Minister for Manufacturing Industry that the honourable member for Hindmarsh should not have had administration of Part V of the Act? Of course not. I raised objection to the fact that Part V and Part IV were not to be administered by the same Minister, but I did not suggest that the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who was then the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, ought not to be responsible for the consumer affairs legislation of- the Commonwealth Parliament. What nonsense it is to say that the only legislation that the Commonwealth Parliament has in the area of consumer affairs should not be within the control of the Minister who is responsible for consumer affairs. 
Yes, the honourable member for Hindmarsh had very wide experience in that portfolio. I am quite aware of that fact. Yet somehow or other that association was terminated. Let me analyse further the speech of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. The honourable member talked about section 90 of the Act and, rightly, reminded the House that the previous Attorney-General had on 3 occasions exercised the discretion that the Minister has under section 90 of the Act and that I had criticised the exercising of that discretion. I criticised it because I believed that, at the very least, it ought to have been exercised in circumstances in which the reasons for the exercising of that discretion were given. We gave an undertaking prior to the election that that discretionary power would be removed. That discretionary power has not been removed by this legislation, but it is patently obvious, as the review committee is dealing with the question of mergers generally, that the appropriate time to give attention to the implementation of that undertaking is, of course, when any amendments flowing from the review are considered by this Parliament. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also talked about the Bank of New South Wales and other large companies whose names flowed off his tongue very easily. I cannot understand what the honourable member for KingsfordSmith was getting at. He talked about something which is quite well known in commercial circles and which was given very wide publicity, namely, the attempted takeover of an insurance company by the Australian Guarantee Corporation. I had absolutely no approaches, as the Minister responsible for this Act, regarding that matter. I am at a total loss to understand what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith was getting at. But his confusion was even worse confounded when he started to talk about petrol discounts. He said that I had issued a statement on 23 February, that it was prepared on 20 February and that the Trade Practices Commission knew nothing about it. He has it all wrong. The sequence of events very simply was that an 23 February the Commission issued a public statement saying that after a careful examination it had come to the conclusion that there was not capacity within the Commission to do anything about what the Transport Workers Union was doing in relation to the discounted petrol supplies in Sydney. That is a perfectly natural thing for the Commission to do. 
-Of course I knew about it, because it had paid me the courtesy as the Minister responsible of informing me on 20 February that it proposed to issue a Press statement on 23 February. Is the honourable gentleman suggesting that I should have intervened in some way to stop the Trade Practices Commission from issuing that Press statement? Of course not. All the Commission was doing was paying me the courtesy of telling me 3 days in advance that it proposed to issue a Press statement. I regard that as being an entirely proper thing for the Commission to do. I regard that as being an entirely courteous thing for the Commission to do. Any suggestion that the Commission knew nothing about it is absurd because the Commission informed me; it was its Press statement. So how could the Commission know absolutely nothing about it? 
On 23 February the Commission put out a Press statement; yet the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith is still interjecting that it knew nothing about the matter. Is the honourable gentleman suggesting that the Commission knew nothing about a Press statement that it put out on 23 February? 
The Commission put it out on 23 February and the honourable member says that it knew nothing about it. 
-Of course. So the statement went out. 
-I told the Commission nothing; it told me. The honourable gentleman ought to check his sources of information because he has some of his facts in relation to this matter absolutely and hopelessly wrong. 
This legislation is in itself fairly minor legislation. It does give legislative sanction to the transfer of the administration of this Act to the control of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Unlike the honourable gentlemen who sit opposite, I believe that the creation of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs will bring to this whole area a practical consideration of the interests of both business and consumers. I do not believe that by separating consumer interests from business interests one is necessarily going to get a better result. In fact, the placing of consumer affairs at a federal level under the responsibility of an independent Minister may entrench conflict in an area in which it ought not necessarily to exist. In future debates in this area I will certainly always welcome constructive criticism from the members of the Opposition, but I do hope that they will get their fundamental facts in this area a little more accurate than they have during the course of their remarks in this debate. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  directed a number of very constructive remarks towards the operation of section 163a of the Act. I assure the honourable member that I will take those remarks into account. If it is possible and is regarded by the Government as being reasonable to give effect to those remarks, that will be done. But I do regret the fact that the honourable member for Grayndler alleged that the Trade Practices Commission was being emasculated. The fact of the matter is that the Trade Practices Commission, like all other statutory commissions and departments within the area of government, has been subjected to the imposition of certain staff ceilings. The Trade Practices Commission is being treated no differently from any other statutory commission within my portfolio. It is being treated no differently from my Department. It is being treated no differently from any other section of the Government. To say that we are driving the Trade Practices Commission into extinction by strangling it of funds is an absolute falsehood. If the honourable member for Grayndler has any substantive allegations to make about that I will be very happy to hear them. If any honourable gentleman on the other side of the House has a constructive allegation to make in that area I will be extremely interested to hear about it. 
Throughout the course of this debate honourable gentlemen opposite have constantly misunderstood remarks that have been made by me and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the operation of the Trade Practices Act as being a reflection upon the Trade Practices Commission. I regard the Trade Practices Commission as being a body of people who are performing an extremely difficult task. I have the highest regard for the  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Commission, whom I regard as being a very outstanding public servant in an extremely difficult and complicated area and a person who has faithfully and conscientiously served governments of both political persuasions to the best of his ability. At no stage since the present Government took office has it criticised the behaviour of the Trade Practices Commission. 
The honourable member for Grayndler also referred to an answer that the Prime Minister gave to a question that was asked in this House on 25 February. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, on his old hobby-horse about not transferring the administration of this Act to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, asked the Prime Minister whether he would reconsider the matter. In the course of his reply the Prime Minister said: 
However, I would say that in respect of some of the measures undertaken by the previous Administration there was a degree of harassment of businesses which is, in no small measure, responsible for part of the unemployment that now exists in Australia. 
That was not a criticism of the Trade Practices Commission; it was a criticism of the attitudes of the previous Administration, and a justifiable one. Surely the honourable member for Grayndler is not so sensitive as to suggest that the Prime Minister cannot criticise the behaviour of the previous Administration. We are not reflecting upon the behaviour of the Trade Practices Commission. If there is anything wrong with the operation of the Trade Practices Act it is essentially because of the Act itself. We are reviewing the Act's operation. It is not the responsibility of the Commission to review it and to tell us how the Act should be re-written. That Act is a piece of legislation of this Parliament and if that Act is to be changed it is to be changed at the initiative of this Parliament. The suggestion that once the Act was passed and the Commission was established the legislation became the total possession of that Commission is absolute nonsense. The Trade Practices Commission has responsibilities to discharge under that Act- I am glad that the honourable member for Grayndler agrees with me on this issue- and, insofar as it does discharge those responsibilities, it is not the prerogative of the Government to intervene and it is not my intention as the responsible Minister to intervene. But insofar as those matters in relation to which I do have a discretion are concerned it is certainly my intention to exercise that discretion to the best of my ability. It is inevitable, as the honourable member for Grayndler has suggested, that some of those decisions will be difficult. Some of them will invite political comment. The honourable member has drawn attention to one tonight.  His  colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  also did this the other night.  (Extension of time granted)  I thank the House. 
The only other matter I wanted to mention is that I think it is regrettable that at no stage during the debate did any member of the Opposition acknowledge that one of the measures achieved by this Bill is the removal of the link provisions between the foreign takeovers legislation and the Trade Practices Act. In fact, that is really in political terms the most significant thing that this legislation achieves. What in fact this legislation does is to establish that foreign companies will no longer be treated as being in a favoured position so far as the operation of the Trade Practices Act is concerned. I think it is something of a commentary on the study that most but not all members of the Opposition have given to this legislation that absolutely no reference was made to this point. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 3- by leave- taken together. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: '4. Section 6 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) the words 'section 46, Part V (other than section 55), and substituting the words 'sections 46, 60 and 61, sub-sections 64 (3) and (4)'; and 
by omitting from paragraph (h) of sub-section (2) the word and figures 'or 89 (7) '. '. 
The purpose of this amendment is merely to clarify the drafting of section 6 of the principal Act. The need to do this arose out of some comments made by the High Court of Australia in the course of hearing a case which is still proceeding. The amendments proposed in no way affect the substantive provisions of section 6 of the Act. They are purely drafting amendments. I can assure honourable members opposite that they are of an entirely technical nature and are intended merely to improve the clarity of expression in clause 6 of the principal Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 9- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
Section 90 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the words 'or any other person' and substituting the words ', by the Commonwealth, by a State or by any other person '; 
by omitting from sub-section (5) the words 'Subject to sub-sections (9) and (11)' and substituting the words 'Subject to sub-section (9) '; 
by omitting from sub-section (6) the words 'prescribed date' and substituting the words 'date on which the application is received by the Commission'; and 
by omitting sub-sections (10), (11), (12), (13) and (14). 
I shall deal first with the question raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  I shall discuss his proposal with the Trade Practices Commission and also consider it at departmental level. I want to refer briefly to 2 other matters. The first is the jurisdiction of the Industrial Court. It was suggested during the debate that the effect of these amendments was to vest exclusive jurisdiction in the Industrial Court so far as the making of declaratory orders was concerned. My advice is that that is not the case and when these amendments pass into law both the Industrial Court and the State courts will exercise concurrent jurisdiction in this area. 
The other matter I would like to come back to is the second contribution to this debate by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  It is quite obvious from the tenor of the remarks he made a moment ago that it would not matter if the Archangel Gabriel administered this Act because the Archangel Gabriel would not be free from accusations made by the honourable member. He is hung up over a Press statement issued by the Trade Practices Commission on 23 February. Yes, there was a Press statement and it was issued by the Trade Practices Commission on 23 February. The sequence of events is this: On 20 February I received from the Trade Practices CommissionI think from the  Chairman  but certainly from a responsible member of it- a copy of the Press statement and was informed that the Commission proposed to issue it. That Press statement was issued. I in no way communicated with the Commission and suggested that it should be issued in a different form. All the Commission did was to pay me the courtesy of telling me in advance. I did not ask the Commission. 
I have never given a standing instruction to the Trade Practices Commission that it has to forward to me a copy of any Press statement on any matter before it issues it or that it has to get my approval. The Commission does not have to get my approval. Because the matter dealt with was of some political consequence the Commission took the view that it ought to pay me the courtesy of letting me know in advance what it was going to say publicly. 
If that represents ministerial interference, if that represents a situation where there is a conflict of interest, if that means that in some way I am interfering with the independence of the Commission, I think ordinary English words have lost their plain meaning. It does not mean those things at all. It is absolute nonsense for the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith to labour this point and to carry on about it. By all means let the Opposition criticise my administration of this Act on legitimate grounds. Let it criticise conflicts of interest. Let it criticise things. But when we get to the situation where I am accused of interfering with the Commission simply because without any request on my part I received in advance a Press statement which the Commission proposed to issue, the meaning of the ordinary English language is being so distorted as to leave me, and I am sure all members on this side of the House, absolutely flabbergasted. 
It does not amount to that at all. This is typical of the approach that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has taken during this debate. If he has any allegations of substance to make about improper administration, if he has any allegations about irregularities, let him make them. I would be delighted to hear them. However, there are none. They would be interesting fiction for this House to hear. In future it would pay the cause and the reputation of the Opposition in debate in these matters if the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith confined himself to facts and dissociated himself from the realm of fantasy. 
As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  feels so strongly about this matter I am prepared, rather than waste the time of the Committee, to show him the text of the communication that I received from the Commission on this subject and also the text of the draft Press statement. I merely repeat that I received it on 20 February, apparently on the authority of the Commission and not of my Department. It was a draft of a proposed Press statement which I was informed the Commission intended to issue. The question of whether that communication was made to me with the authority of the Commission is something for which I cannot be held responsible. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith by innuendo suggested that in some way I leant on the Commission or my 
Department leant on it to drum up a Press statement. The honourable member is very good at innuendo but very poor with facts. 
-No, I cannot. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Tenders closed on 28 November 1975. 
Acceptance of tenders is a matter for the owner. The Government is not aware of an announcement being made. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
The new rates of duty on imports of assembled and unassembled commercial motor vehicles announced on 30 March 1 976 followed the Government 's consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's report of September 1974 on Commercial Motor Vehicles, Farts and Accessories. In the main, the new rates accord with those recommended by the Commission. The Commission had stated that 'Largely because the proposed rates vary little from existing rates, the Commission does not anticipate any significant changes occurring in the structure of the commercial vehicle industry, or in the extent to which labour and materials are used, as a result of its recommendations. 
No. The Government has accepted the Commission's judgment that significant changes in the usage of local labour and materials are unlikely to occur as a result of setting the tariff at 25 per cent. In announcing its decision on the Commission's report, the Government added that the Temporary Assistance Authority machinery is available to any sector of the industry which can substantiate, on the basis of normal criteria, a  prima facie  case for the need for additional temporary assistance. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 8 and 9 ( 1976). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. Customs TariffProposals No. 8 provide for the elimination of duty, with effect from 1 January 1976, on a further group of commodities which have been added to Schedule A to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. Customs TariffProposals No. 9 give effect to the Government's recently announced decision to allow duty free entry into Australia of certain motor vehicles of an age of 30 years or more. The operative date for this concession is 1 April 1976. 1 commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this Bill is to obtain the approval of Parliament for ratification by Australia of the United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances and to make legislative provision to give effect to control in terms of the Convention over consignments of certain psychotropic substances which enter Australian ports or airports in the course of consignment from a country outside Australia to another country outside Australia. 'Psychotropic substances' is a term used to refer to substances that have the capacity to produce a state of dependence and central nervous system stimulation or depression resulting in hallucinations or disturbances in motor functions, thinking, behaviour, perception or mood and, in respect of which, there is evidence of a likelihood of abuse so as to constitute a pubhe health and social problem. The aim of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances is to bring about international control of those drugs of dependence which fall into the category of psychotropic substances in a similar way to the international control now operating in respect of narcotic drugs in accordance with the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs 1 96 1 , to which Australia is a party. 
Like the Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the Psychotropic Convention provides a comprehensive code for international control which limits the manufacture, movement and use of the drugs concerned to medical or scientific purposes and imposes an obligation on parties to combat the illicit traffic, punish offenders and make provision for the medical treatment, care and rehabilitation of drug dependent persons. Drugs covered by the Convention are graded according to abuse potential and controls range from a virtual embargo on substances such as LSD and mescaline to less strict requirements applicable to minor barbiturates, tranquillisers and stimulants. 
Import and export controls are provided for in regulations made under the Customs Act. Offences involving illicit importation or exportation, trafficking in, possessing or conveying prohibited imports or prohibited exports are punishable as offences against the Customs Act. Controls in terms of the Convention over manufacture, distribution and use of psychotropic substances within a State are the legislative responsibility of the Government of that State. The laws of each of the States in this regard are in accordance with the Convention provisions. As certain territorial ordinances are yet to be brought in line with Convention requirements, the application of this legislation insofar as ratification is concerned would be contingent on this action. 
The Bill now before the House will also give effect to provisions contained in sub-paragraph 3 (e) of Article 12 of the Convention which requires a party to prevent passage through the party's territory of substances in Schedules I and II to the Convention, whether or not the consignment is removed from the carrying ship or aircraft, in respect of which an export authorisation cannot be produced on demand. Provision is made for regulations to: (a) exempt from the control preparations containing a psychotropic substance (other than a Schedule I substance) compounded in such a way that risk of abuse or of recovery of the substance in a quantity liable to abuse is negligible; and (b) add substances to, or delete substances from, a Schedule or to transfer a substance from one Schedule to another in pursuance of advices received from the Secretary-General of the United Nations or the Commission on Narcotic Drugs of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, as the case may be. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Customs Act 1901-1975 by replacing the existing provisions relating to the valuation of imported goods for the purposes of calculating  ad valorem  duties with a new system of valuation based on the internationally recognised Brussels Definition of Value. The existing provisions require that valuation be based, at the f.o.b level, on the higher of the actual price paid by the importer or the current domestic value of the goods in the country of export. These provisions which have given rise to increasing administrative and legal problems in recent years were the subject of 2 cases before the High Court in 1974 and 1975. The decison in both cases substantially eroded the effectiveness of the existing system. 
An interdepartmental committee established to review Australia's customs valuation system prepared a Green Paper in 1975 which canvassed the possibility of adopting the Brussels Definition of Value. The paper was generally well received by industry and commerce and the committee recommended that the Customs Act be amended to provide for the valuation of goods in accordance with the Brussels Definition. The Brussels Definition was developed by the Customs Co-operation Council, an international customs consultative body, and forms the basis for the valuation systems of over 90 countries throughout the world including most of Australia's major trading partners. The definition is set out in annexes to the Convention on the Valuation of Goods for Customs Purposes. These annexes are reproduced in the Schedule to the Bill. 
The central feature of the Definition is the notional concept that the value for duty of any imported goods is the amount which those goods would fetch on the open market between a buyer and a seller independent of each other. It is a concept for general use irrespective of the terms under which the goods are imported. When the goods imported are the subject of a genuine open market sale the invoice price will generally be regarded as a valid indication of the value for duty. 
The substantive clauses of the Bill cover the usual machinery matters and repeal those provisions in the Customs Act relating to the existing system of valuation. In addition clause 4(3) provides for a number of modifications to the Schedule which adapt the Definition to Australian conditions. The most important of these are to be found in paragraphs (d),  (0  and (h). Paragraph (d) modifies the definition in the Schedule to provide that imported goods be valued on an f.o.b. basis. The wording of the modification is taken from a protocol to the Convention which is awaiting ratification at the Customs Cooperation Council in Brussels. Paragraph (f) provides that outside packages, with certain specified exclusions, will form part of the dutiable value of the goods which they contain. This is a change to existing valuation practice recommended by the interdepartmental committee which considered that such a change would considerably simplify Customs entry procedures and be more in keeping with commercial practice. Paragraph (h) maintains a concession extendedto Canada in the Canada-Australia Trade Agreement of 1960. This concession allows valuation of Canadian exports as if they had been exported from the port of exit in Canada nearest to their place of origin. 
The Green Paper to which I have referred considered the tariff implications of a change to the Brussels Definition of Value. Available statistical information did not permit exact calculations but the committee was able to conclude that any difference in total Customs duty payable following the implementation of the Definition was likely to be negligible. However, the committee recognised that in particular cases there could be significant variations in amounts of duty payable leading to adverse effects on local industries or importers. The Government has decided that where such significant variations do occur with adverse effects to local industry or importers provision will be made for the Industries Assistance Commission to consider possible tariff adjustments for a period of 6 months after the implementation on 1 July this year. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
in reply- I should Uke very genuinely to thank everybody who has participated in this debate. This is the first occasion since I have been the Minister having responsibility in this area on which I have sat through a debate on tariffs. I can say that so far as I am concerned in future the maximum opportunity will be made available in this place for debates on these issues. I believe it is an area in which we must be very careful that we do not become doctrinaire. There are no simple, readymade solutions. It is easy to find- if I can borrow the old-fashioned labels- an area where a free trade attitude has led to employment dislocations and social deprivations. It is equally easy to find an example of where a protectionist attitude has not necessarily produced the desired result. 
In applying tariff policy a government has to pay regard to three or four paramount considerations. It must pay regard to employment considerations. It is all very well to talk about the long term economic consequences but it is not easy to explain those to people who are thrown out of work. It is not easy to explain them to people who suddenly find that their existence is subject to enormous upheaval. It is not easy to explain those sorts of theories to Australian industries which have demonstrated a capacity and a willingness to survive and to those who have to make hard and fast investment decisions and who must have some idea of the predictability of a government's approach to tariff matters. Equally, it is necessary to take account not only of the interests of employers and employees but also of the interests of consumers. 
One of the objects of the present Government in locating responsibility for the Industries Assistance Commission in the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs was to ensure that in taking tariff decisions and in considering the application of protection policies the Government would take account of all the interests across the whole spectrum including the interests of consumers. Perhaps in the past we have in our considerations given a little too much prominence to the interests of the employer and employee and maybe a proper regard has not been paid to the interests of consumers. In tariff matters, one cannot look at the interests of one section of the community in isolation from another. Unless one is prepared to bring to the application of protection policies a consideration not only of the employers but also of the employees and the consumers, one will make wrong decisions. I would hope, so far as my interest remains in this area, that when this House debates tariff matters it will do so as it has today. It has been an extremely wide ranging debate. It has given honourable members an opportunity to express very diverse points of view. I would again emphasise that it is not an area in which one should be too doctrinaire. I am not prepared to put a label on my own attitude. 
The only other matter I would like to emphasise is the question of the relationship between the Government and the IAC. We hear a lot about the independence and autonomy of statutory commissions. The IAC is the Government's independent advisory body on assistance for industries. That was the purpose for which the body was established. It is there to advise the 
Government on the implementation of its policies. It is there to give the Government advice on how to implement the economic objectives of the Government. But it is the Government's responsibility to set economic goals. It is the Government's responsibility and the Government 's right to lay down guidelines. 
Honourable members will be aware that recently I wrote to the  Chairman  of the IAC drawing his attention to the policy which had been enunciated by the coalition parties prior to the election campaign. This is no attack on the independence of the IAC. This is not a failure to recognise the independent advisory role of the Commission. It is a willingness by this Government to indicate its objectives in the area of protection policy. Those guidelines that were enunciated in the election policy speech of the coalition parties and which were repeated in the letter addressed to the IAC are a statement of some of the objectives of this Government in this area. In addressing that letter and in making that statement, the Government in no way detracts from the independence of the body. But equally, the Government in no way retreats from the fact that it is the Government's responsibility and the Government's right to set economic objectives and to define the policies. Equally, it is the Government's responsibility in the final analysis to determine whether the recommendations of the IAC on long term protection matters will be implemented. Honourable members opposite are aware of the history of the establishment of the IAC. The charter under which it operates has been clearly understood on both sides of this House. 
In conclusion, I would like again to thank those honourable members who have participated in this debate. I hope that in the future when debating tariff matters we will be able to have debates of a similar quality. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Third Reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Howard)  read a third time. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A review of the legislation is currently being conducted. The matter has been the subject of discussions with industry and we are now awaiting a response. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Persons Apprehended and Convicted 
The Bureau of Customs maintains case records of all seizures and prosecutions under legislation for which it is responsible and all other prosecutions in which it has been involved. The records include details of the offences, offenders, evidence, judgments and penalties. 
-I think the honourable gentleman's question relates to a report in one of the Sunday newspapers which reported some comments made by a  Mr Sinclair  of the Martin Wells company to the effect that if the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission were accepted some 400 people would be retrenched from the company and that effectively would close the company's operation as the only maker of spectacle frames in Australia. The report of the Industries Assistance Commission was received by the Government several weeks ago. It is presently under very active consideration by the Government, and very soon I hope to present a Cabinet submission recommending a course of action on the report. I can assure the honourable gentleman that the Government will have very much in mind the employment consequences of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission and also the desirability of maintaining, as far as possible, viable Australian industries. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on tourist accommodation industry- short-term assistance. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my answer to Question No. 223 I gave certain details of the powers of officers, the rights of persons detained for search in accordance with the provisions of Section 196 of the Customs Act, and the procedures followed in relation to these matters. 
It will be noted that the procedures followed in relation to the search of persons conform very closely to the recommendations of the Interim Report of the Law Reform Commission. The only significant difference appears to be that where the person detailed for search so requires the search may only proceed on the authority of a Justice or a Collector (i.e. a Principal Officer of Customs) whereas the Law Reform Commission's Interim Report envisaged that such a determination should only be made by a Justice. Because of the very real practical considerations- such as the difficulty of locating a Justice where compelling circumstances for search may exist in remote areas of Australia, and the need to be able to cope immediately with an armed person- I do not intend to vary present legislation. However, new instructions require that a person detained for search be given the option of whether he prefers that the matter of search be determined by a Justice or a Principal Officer of Customs, and that as far as possible his wishes be met. 
The procedures I have mentioned were followed in relation to the passenger referred to in Part 2 of the honourable member's question. The woman concerned elected to have the matter of search determined by a Justice or Principal Officer of Customs; but before suitable arrangements for this could be made, she disrobed in the Customs Hall at the Terminal. 
As I have already mentioned, instructions in relation to search of persons do conform closely to the interim recommendations of the Law Reform Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
21 August 1 974, through a Barrister and Solicitor acting for the applicant company. 
As a number of other by-law cases were before the Industries Assistance Commission at the time, some other references, including Dyeline Base Paper, were phased to avoid overloading the Commission. 
Because the Report raised questions of principle in regard to shortfall by-laws which could have had much wider application than the specific goods covered in the Report, there was a necessity at departmental level to clarify these issues before making recommendations. 
and (5) On 16 February 1976 1 announced acceptance of the Industries Assistance Commission 's recommendation. The announcement also invited interested parties to lodge by-law applications for any importations which qualified for concessional entry. All applications lodged to date have been processed and the necessary Ministerial Determinations have been issued. The payment of refunds of duty is dependent upon the importer lodging a claim with the Collector of Customs at the port of importation. 
No. 
On 24 February 1976 1 announced new procedures for handling reports from the Industries Assistance Commission intended to ensure that excessive delays suffered by industry under previous procedures would be eliminated. 
VIP Aircraft (Question No. 302) 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Up to the end of March 1976 the following fruit juice processors had received payments under the previous Government's structural adjustment assistance scheme for fruit juice processors: 
I seek leave of the House to amend the motion now before the House by inserting after the words 'General Business ' the words ' Notice No. 1 '. 
I seek leave to move a motion to extend the time for the consideration of General Business. 
-I repeat: I seek leave to move a motion to extend the time for the consideration of General Business. 
Regarding the first matter, I recognise that it is a fair question. I will endeavour to inform the House of the situation later in the day. I am sure that the Opposition will give me leave to do so. So far as the second matter is concerned, I am not aware of the position. I will investigate the matter and let the honourable gentleman know. 
That is so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1 ), (4) and (5) The Government has approved the applications of Nissan and Toyota to enter the 85 per cent company average local content Plan subject to these companies sourcing their four-cylinder engines under arrangements that are acceptable to the Government. 
The Government is well aware of the advantages of rational development of four-cylinder engine manufacture, rather than fragmented production in several locations. Consequently it authorised the Minister for Industry and Commerce to hold discussions with both established and new manufacturers to explore possible arrangements for production of all Australian requirements of four-cylinder engines, including the proposal for their production at Lonsdale. 
The AIDC is free to decide on the basis of its normal criteria whether or not to participate in any four-cylinder engine consortium that may be formed. 
Yes. The Government accepted the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations on the question of component resourcing. 
The Government has adopted an 85 per cent company average local content Plan which incorporates some significant modification of previous arrangements, and is encouraging movement towards more economic activities (see answer to question (2) above). 
8 ) No. The Government 's recent policy decisions, which I announced on 30 March 1976, removed a great deal of the uncertainty which has bedevilled this industry in recent years. As explained in (2) above, the question of fourcylinder engine production is under active consideration by the Government and the motor vehicle companies. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The essential feature of the 85 per cent company average local content plan for passenger motor vehicles is that vehicle builders undertake to achieve and maintain specified levels of local content in return for duty free entry of residual componentry. Without this concession, there would be no incentive for vehicle builders to participate in the plan and therefore no guarantee that any componentry would be sourced locally. The plan therefore provides a substantial degree of protection to component manufacturers generally, and will continue to do so until at least 31 December 1984. Removal at the end of 1976 of the existing control over reversions will give the vehicle builders freedom to determine which components they will source locally to make up their 85 per cent local content and which they will import to make up the remainder. Whether the imports include panels, transmissions, engines or other componentry will be a matter for the commercial decision of each vehicle company. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
New manufacturers may participate in the Plan initially on the basis of an individual model meeting the local content requirements or on the basis of two or more models meeting the requirements. By-law concessions will not be available for models which have not been entered in the Plan. However, from 1 January 1980, new manufacturers will be required to achieve 85 per cent local content over all vehicles they manufacture or assemble in Australia. 
These arrangements will not disadvantage the existing manufacturers. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
New manufacturers will be required to achieve 85 per cent local content in accordance with the following timetable: 1 January 1976- 6214 per cent 1 January 1977- 70 per cent 1 January 1978-75 percent 1 January 1979-80 percent 1 January 1980-85 percent 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Manufacturers will be permitted to import completelybuiltup vehicles outside the Plan's operation provided they have allocations under the import quota arrangements which are to apply until 3 1 December 1 976. 
In certain circumstances, both established and new manufacturers will be permitted to import completelyknockeddown vehicles outside the Plan's operation during the phasing period, i.e. until 31 December 1978 in the case of established manufacturers and until 31 December 1979 in the case of new manufacturers. Of course the by-law concessions available for Plan vehicles will not apply to such imports, which will be subject to normal duty and tariff quota arrangements. Following the conclusion of the phasing period, manufacturers will not be permitted to import completely.knockeddown vehicles outside the Plan. 
These imports will be treated as separate operations outside the Plan, i.e., to the extent and during the period that Plan manufacturers are permitted to engage in such importations. 
The reference to importation by retailers indicates that this part of the question refers to fully assembled cars. Such imports fall outside the operation of the Plan, regardless of the identity of the importer. 
For the information cf honourable members, I present a report b* the Industries Assistance Commission entitled:' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
An import licence may be issued subject to a condition that the vehicle will not be sold or otherwise disposed of by the passenger for a specific period where there are doubts as to whether the vehicle is imported for early re-sale rather than retention for personal use. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I have no reason to believe that the Authority has adopted such a view. Its findings are determined in the light of the circumstances of each inquiry it conducts. It is important to note that the Authority is concerned with the question of temporary assistance for the local industry as distinct from temporary assistance for an individual manufacturer. 
See answer to (2). 
As indicated in my Statement of 11 April 1976 the 
Government will maintain efficient emergency procedures and machinery to provide prompt temporary assistance to safeguard industries from damage by undue import competition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. This report was one of nine to which I referred in a statement of 12 March 1976 announcing that the Government would release the reports for public comment as soon as printed copies were available. These reports had not been released earlier by the Commission in a draft form for comment by the respective industry and other interested parties. It was the Government's intention that the reports be released as soon as possible to permit comment prior to an early decision on the Commission's recommendations. 
Yes. 
In matters of industry assistance, such as changes to the Customs Tariff, it has been the practice of all Governments to announce and implement decisions without prior debate in the Parliament. To do otherwise could lead to speculative activities by interested parties dealing with the goods concerned. Members have the opportunity to debate the issues when the Customs Tariff Bills are subsequently introduced into the Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Inquiries have revealed that there is no shortage of fertilisers in Queensland despite press reports to the contrary. 
I am informed that because of the wet conditions prevailing throughout the cane growing areas of the State demand for fertiliser has been slow. When fine weather returns it is anticipated that the demand for fertilisers could be heavy. 
Growers have been requested by the fertiliser manufacturers directly, and through their organisations, to order as soon as possible to lighten expected load on the transport system. If this is done it is not anticipated that there will be any serious problem in supplying growers needs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have instructed my Department to examine the merits of the honourable member's propositions. 
I am informed that proposals of this nature have been or are being, considered in other countries and I have asked my Department to have regard to these considerations as part of their examination of the subject. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 10 and 11 (1976). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals that I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. Customs TariffProposals No. 10 ( 1976) formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette notice last week. The changes, which operate from 1 1 May 1976, implement the Government's decision on the short term assistance to be provided for the production of injection moulding machinery pending consideration by the 
Government of the report by the Industries Assistance Commission on Miscellaneous Industrial Machinery. 
Customs TariffProposals No. 11 (1976) give effect to the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on welding consumables and flux cored solder; precision ground steel ball bearings; and filament, fluorescent and other discharge lamps. The new duties operate from to-morrow. Proposals No. 11 (1976) also contain a number of administrative changes which do not involve variations in rates of duties. A comprehensive summary of the changes is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 3) 1975-1976 Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 6 May, on motion by  Mr Lynch: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
in reply- I thank those honourable members who have contributed to this debate and the Opposition for the support it has indicated it will give to this Bill. It is an extremely important measure with respect to customs valuation in Australia. I was particularly interested in the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  calling to memory some very celebrated cases in the 19th century relating to customs valuation. I commend the honourable member on the research and thought he has devoted to this subject, but with this legislation the Government is a little more interested in the cases of  Caterpillar Pty Ltd  v.  Carmody  and  Sarah Coventry Pty Ltd v. Carmody  which were heard not in the 19th century but in 1974 and 1975. Both of those cases have, as the honourable member for Grayndler will freely acknowledge, led to this particular amendment Bill. It was the decision of the High Court of Australia in both of those cases, which cast serious doubt on the existing valuation system in our customs legislation, which led not only this Government but also the previous Government to believe that a change in the valuation system was necessary and that an adoption of the Brussels definition of value was a desirable course of action. 
I remind the House, in case there should be any doubt that this legislation has been introduced without warning or suddenly flung upon an unsuspecting commercial community, that it was first publicly mooted in July 1 973 by, I believe,  Senator Murphy  when he was Minister for Customs and Excise. It was then suggested that there would be a change in the system of valuation and that consideration would be given to the introduction of the Brussels definition of value. A Green Paper has been available since February 1975- some 15 months ago. Customs officers have been conducting lectures and seminars for importers and agents for several months. Any suggestion, therefore, that this legislation has been suddenly dropped out of the sky and comes as a surprise to those in the commercial community who will have to cope with it is to mislead the House. I am not suggesting that either the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  or the honourable member for Grayndler were deliberately suggesting that, but there was just the faintest hint in both their speeches that somehow or other the Government had not treated this matter seriously. The Government recognises that it is a fundamental change. This is an extremely technical matter as the context of the 2 speeches made on behalf of the Opposition indicates, but in many respects the system of valuation that is going to be adopted will, by its very nature, remove a lot of the doubts and difficulties of construction which formed the basis of the speech of the honourable member for Grayndler. 
Essentially the Brussels definition of value as a system of valuation is a notional concept of valuation based on the price that goods would fetch at a sale in the open market between a buyer and a seller independent of each other. The honourable member for Grayndler took me back to law school days. Might I take him back to the provisions of the sixth schedule of the Stamp Duties Act of New South Wales. In many respects the concept that the real value of something is what it would fetch on an open market between a buyer and a seller is not only an equitable system of valuation but is also a system of valuation which most people in a commercial environment will understand. We all know that commercial transactions can, by various routes and various associations, perhaps wittingly or unwittingly conceal an arrangement or an association between a buyer and a seller, and that the provisions of revenue legislation both at a State and Federal level are directed to revealing the true nature of the relationship between the parties to a particular transaction. In fact, in the 2 cases that I have cited which were so critical to the Government's decision to introduce this legislation the High Court, by reason of its decision, indicated that the existing provisions dealing with that situation were inadequate. What we have with this new system of valuation is a concept of real value on the basis of the transaction being between parties who were at arm's length and who were independent of each other. That is going to be the basis of the valuation. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide quite rightly raised the question of the Government's preference for the fob system as opposed to the cif system. This was a fair question to raise. It is not giving away any great State secrets to say that this matter exercised the mind of the Government when it was making a decision on this. Arguments can be advanced on both sides. There are arguments of certainty and perhaps, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, there are some social arguments in favour of the cif basis of valuation. Certainly the majority of countries with which Australia trades- there are 2 important exceptions- has a cif basis of valuation but Australia, being remote from many of its trading partners, has a situation where freight costs, particularly air freight costs, are an important element. It is not difficult to reach the conclusion that in sheer money terms and in sheer duty terms an fob system would produce quite different results and quite different levels of duty from a cif system. On balance the Government felt that an fob system of valuation was preferable to a cif system of valuation. 
Without in any way suggesting that there are not arguments the cannot be advanced in favour of the cif system the Government felt on balance, particularly having regard to the remoteness of Australia from many of her trading partners, that an fob system of valuation was preferable. One has also to take into account the desire to minimise disruption when a change of this nature is made. Australian importers have been used to a system of fob when applying our valuation systems. That was another factor the Government took into account in deciding to opt for an fob system. However this is a matter which will nat.urally be kept under review by the Government. The experience of the operation of the new system will naturally be looked at carefully. 
The honourable members for Port Adelaide and Grayndler were a little concerned about the brevity of my second reading speech. I am touched that they should think that I should spend more time speaking in this House but, of course, it is the content of a second reading speech that really matters. This particular legislation, as I indicated earlier, has been mooted for a long period. The concept of the change in the valuation system can be reduced to a fairly limited number of words. It is a concept that I explained a few moments ago. It is a concept that has been explained in the second reading speech. It is a concept that I believe draws a majority support- a very strong majority support- from those in the commercial community who will have to contend with this legislation. 
Concern was also expressed regarding the availability of appeals against valuation determinations. It is understandable concern. Reference has been made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. Honourable members on both sides of the House will forgive me for reminding the House that when the Administrative Appeals Tribunal legislation was introduced by the previous Government last year it contained no schedules at all. But for the action of the then Opposition in the Senate there would not be any schedules in that legislation. If the Government of the day had had its way we would have had a skeleton piece of legislation which established a procedure, a machinery and a path for administrative appeals but which did not specify any pieces of legislation or any categories of decisions in respect of which appeals could be brought. My understanding of the matter insofar as customs valuations are concerned is that provision is made for appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal where there is a dispute as to value and that that provision is to be found in Part XII of the Schedule at page 29 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. So the claim made by members of the Opposition that there is no provision for appeals in these matters is, according to my understanding, an incorrect claim. I would respectfully refer those honourable members on the other side of the House who raised this matter to an examination of page 29 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  sought from me an assurance that where there was any danger to local industry, where levels of protection to local industry might be threatened by the introduction of this new system of valuation, we would act very quickly to see that references were made to the Industries 
Assistance Commission. I am happy to repeat for the benefit not only of the honourable member for Riverina but also the House generally that where significant variations do occur with adverse effects to local industries provision will be made for the Industries Assistance Commission to consider possible tariff adjustments for a period of 6 months after the implementation of this change, which will come into operation on 1 July of this year. I am happy to repeat that assurance. It is a genuine assurance. There is nothing token about it. We do recognise that in some cases it might be necessary for the Industries Assistance Commission to examine whether tariff adjustments should be made. We were particularly concerned that this particular provision should be made and I am more than happy to give the honourable member for Riverina an assurance in those terms. 
The only other comment that I would like to make is that when a new system comes into operation in an area like this no matter how much warning has been given of it, no matter how much opportunity has been provided for comments and for submissions from interested parties, there is always a natural disposition to put off until fairly near to the operative date an application of the mind to the provisions of the new legislation. Understandably there will be a period after 1 July, which is when the new system comes into operation, when the importers will be making a genuine attempt to comply with the terms of the legislation and when, through no fault of their own, through no desire on their part to mislead the Customs Bureau, mistakes are made and incorrect statements are made regarding value. I am pleased to tell the House that the Customs Bureau has had detailed consultation with the Customs Agents Federation and that a detailed indication has been given to the federation of a procedure which will be adopted to accommodate examples where a genuine attempt has been made to comply with the terms of the new system of valuation but where, through no fault of those importers who are endeavouring to comply with it, some incorrect statement of value has been made. Those procedures have been explained in detail to the federation in a letter from the Comptroller of Customs. 
There is a recognition that for a period of 3 months transitional and administrative arrangements of this nature should operate. The view has been taken that, after that period of time having regard to the long lead-in to this change, sufficient time will have elapsed to enable importers to comply with the terms of the new provisions. But the Customs Bureau and my department certainly recognise that there will be some genuine problems. There would be some genuine problems even if the implementation of this legislation were put off for a further period of 12 months because it is in the nature of commercial transactions when one changes a system of this nature which has operated for so many years that, no matter how much warning one gives and no matter how much time one spends explaining the provisions of the new requirements to those who will be required to comply with them, there are nonetheless during the transitional period understandable teething problems. Mistakes will be made but, providing genuine attempts are made to comply, agents and importers will not be penalised. 
Again I thank those who have contributed to the debate. I believe that the change in the valuation system that the House is about to approve will remove the doubts that have arisen in recent years regarding the efficacy of the existing system. It will therefore protect the integrity of the revenue. I believe that the concept of valuation contained in this legislation will be more readily understood after it has been in operation and will provide a more equitable basis for the valuation of goods than has prevailed in the past. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply- I would like to thank the House for the bipartisan approach adopted to this legislation. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  rightly points out, it only ratifies a section of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. I will take into account the comments he made about other sections of the Convention. I do not think he would mind my saying that this Government takes a slightly different approach to the external affairs power under the Commonwealth Constitution from that adopted by our predecessors. Indeed, the Government takes the view that of the matters covered by the Convention it is only in the area relating to trafficking that the Commonwealth is directly and indisputably involved and that other matters are more appropriately matters for the States. 
I should mention that recently there was a meeting of a standing body on the control of drugs. That body is chaired by the Permanent Head of my Department and it includes State officials. Arising out of that discussion the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolmn Fraser)  is entering into correspondence with the State Premiers on questions relating to drug penalties and drug abuse. I would like to mention to the House that the decision taken by this Government to ratify this Convention follows such a decision taken by the previous Government in 1973. To that extent there is a completely bipartisan approach by the Government and the Opposition. I appreciate the remarks made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  As this is the first piece of legislation relating to drugs that I have dealt with since becoming responsible for the Narcotics Bureau which is within my Department, I would like to take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the work of the Bureau. It is extremely difficult work, as the honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  mentioned. Criminal methods in this area are becoming increasingly sophisticated. I think all honourable members would be aware that in recent days the Narcotics Bureau has achieved success in tracking down the smuggling of a large quantity of drugs. I would like personally to take this opportunity of recording my appreciation, and I am sure that of all honourable members, for the extremely difficult work undertaken in connection with an extremely difficult problem. Drug abuse is nowhere near the problem in Australia that it is in other countries but nonetheless it is a very serious one, particularly in the larger cities of Australia, and it is not going to be overcome overnight. 
There is no single piece of legislation that a government can pass that is going to cure the drug problem but this Bill that the House is about to pass will add yet another weapon to the armoury that we have with which to fight this problem. I take up the remarks made by the honourable member for Tangney. The Bill will indeed strengthen the capacity of the Commonwealth authorities to prevent trafficking in drugs. To that extent I appreciate the support given to it by the Opposition thus facilitating a speedy passage of the legislation through the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, has supplied me with the following information: 
1 ) The Australian Statistician advises that expenditure on travel or tourism in Australia is expenditure on the products of several industries, but only on part of their products. These industries include restaurants, hotels and accommodation, transport, and travel agencies. Official estimates of the products of these industries going into expenditure on travel and tourism are therefore not made. However, a survey of domestic travel conducted by the Australian Travel Research Conference estimated that, in 1 973-74, Australians spent $736m on travel within Australia. In addition, overseas visitors spent $ 1 62m making a total of $898m spent on travel within Australia. There is evidence to believe that the domestic component of this estimate considerably underestimates the value of domestic travel expenditure, as the survey on which it was based relied on the respondents' abilities to recall travel undertaken over a considerable period. 
The estimated $898m spent on travel within Australia in 1973-74 represents 1.77 per cent of Gross Domestic Product for that year. This figure under-estimates the contribution of the tourist industry to Gross Domestic Product, because of the under-estimation in domestic tourism expenditure and because no estimate is available of gross fixed capital expenditure in the industry. 
Because of the reasons outlined in my answer to the first part of the question no official estimates are made of the workforce employed in the travel/tourist industry. However, the official estimate at 3 1 December 197S of wage and salary earners in the entertainment, recreation, restaurants, hotels and personal services industry was S.8 per cent of total civilian employees- 60 per cent of this category were females. 
Estimates of expenditure by foreign visitors, or travel credits, are shown in Table 1. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It has been the general practice in recent years where it has been decided to allow importation of goods at concessional rates to rely upon the power conferred by section 273 of the Customs Act. Nevertheless, the power conferred by section 272 of that Act is sometimes used. 
Each of the determinations of which notice appears in Gazette No. G 16 of 20 April 1976 has the effect of applying the specified item of the Customs Tariff to the goods specified in the determination when imported by any person. 
See the answer to question ( I ). Notice of determinations is of course published in the  Gazette. 
The only power to make a determination specifying the goods to which an item or proposed item of a Customs Tariff is to apply is that contained in section 273 of the Customs Act. 
TheExciseTariffl921-1975. 
In the course of its tariff review inquiries, the Industries Assistance Commission can and in most cases does, consider the appropriateness or otherwise of tariff concessions accorded by way of by-laws or determinations. The Commission from time to time also inquires into and reports on particular by-law matters referred to it by me. Additionally, the continued appropriateness of by-law concessions is reviewed by the Bureau of Customs in the light of the changing circumstances of local manufacture. 
No. The Green Paper titled 'Review of Customs By-law Policy', which was tabled on 2 June 1975, comments on the recommendation of the Committee on Administrative Discretions (Parliamentary Paper No. 316 of 1973). The Green Paper goes on to suggest that consistency and harmony in by-law administration might be better served if appeals for all cases were dealt with by the Industries Assistance Commission rather than the Tribunal. Departments have been considering the public's response to the Green Paper and I hope that a report will be available for consideration by the Government in the not too distant future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Within the past six months the Prices Justification Tribunal has approved a number of notifications from companies seeking wholesale price increases for farm machinery. Such increases were based on unavoidable cost increases incurred by the manufacturing companies concerned and also reflected the Tribunal's approval for these companies to maintain their standard mark-ups. 
I have been advised that several matters dealing with farm machinery prices are under investigation by the Tribunal at the present time. In particular the Tribunal is examining recent price movements in farm machinery held by dealers on consignment or bailment. I am informed that these inquiries are being undertaken at the manufacturer and dealer level. 
Although it is the usual practice for the Tribunal to allow a manufacturing company to apply a price increase to some part or all of its inventory of finished products, depending on whether the inventory has attracted some or all of the increased costs which nave led to the price increase, such approval would not normally extend, as in the case of farm machinery manufacturers, to equipment delivered at earlier dates to dealers and held by them on bailment or consignment. 
Whatever the outcome of its current inquiries, it is likely that the Tribunal will make a special point of informing farm machinery manufacturers and dealers who come within the notification provisions of the Prices Justification Act that unsold equipment held by dealers on bailment or consignment must not be regarded as part of the manufacturing company's inventory of finished products and is therefore ineligible for any later price increases approved by the Tribunal for the same or related equipment. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal cannot directly prevent dealer companies which by virtue of their annual turnover levels are not subject to the notification provisions of the Act from increasing the prices of machinery on hand. The Tribunal would need to be aware of any such practice before it could take appropriate action under Section 16 of the Act. Non-corporate dealerships are, of course, completely outside the jurisidction of the Tribunal. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) An organisation styling itself Neoteric Engineering Affiliates Pty Ltd in 1975 approached the Department of Manufacturing Industry seeking information on the Australian Inventions Assistance Scheme; the organisation claimed it was developing hovercraft, and mentioned that it was seeking assistance in the development of one part of the craft. Information on the Assistance Scheme was supplied and the organisation was invited to submit further details so that its case could be assessed. Such details have not yet been provided but the same organisation applied in 1975 to the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board for assistance. 
The correspondence from the organisation originated from a Melbourne city address. A subsequent article in the press stated that operations were based in the Victorian town of Hastings. 
1 have not been informed by the organisation of its intentions, although I have seen a press report to the effect that operations will be transferred out of this country. 
The approaches received by the Department and by the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board were appropriately dealt with in each case. In the latter case the approach resulted in a grant to the maximum permitted, in the circumstances, under the Act; no application was made for assistance under the Inventions Assistance Scheme. The two schemes are mutually exclusive, and the Act seems to be the appropriate mechanism in this case. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Industry and Commerce is investigating a request from the onion processors for urgent temporary tariff protection against imports of dehydrated onion and onion essence. 
The Department is consulting with the Department of Primary Industry before finalising its investigation and a decision on the request is expected very soon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has informed me that saddles are not separately recorded in Australian import statistics but are included under the classification for 'saddlery and other harness-makers' goods of all materials'. The following table shows the value of imports recorded under this classification during the years 1970-71 to 1974-75 and for the period 1 July 1975 to February 1976, which is the latest month available at this time. Because of the variety of different goods included in the one statistical item, no information is available on quantities of imports. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The above figures include travel undertaken by officers of the Industries Assistance Commission, Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. 
They do not include figures for officers whose positions prior to 22 December, 1975 were located in the Department of the Special Minister of State and the Attorney-General's Department. Because it has not been possible to isolate the figures in relation to these officers their travel will be covered in answers supplied by the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services and the Attorney-General respectively. (Questions 349 and 358). 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I require the debate to be continued. I wish to respond briefly to the remarks of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I assure him that I, as the Minister responsible for legislation concerning the Temporary Assistance Authority, will examine the matter to which he referred in his speech and let him have a response to it as soon as possible. 
The honourable member for Corio did not mention reversion control. He spoke about carpets. If the honourable member for Melbourne wants to raise in an adjournment debate another matter relating to the Industries Assistance Commission let him do so. 
House adjourned at 11.1 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I am unable to provide the answers to Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the question because the matters raised fall within State Government jurisdiction. 
The Department of Primary Industry has provided the information on imports based on figures provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1976- 77 
1 ) One commitment only- The East Asian and Pacific Copyright Seminar. 
2 April 1976. 
$35,000. 
The Government's contribution towards the cost of holding the 1976 East Asian and Pacific Copyright Seminar in Sydney during August, 1976. The private sector will be contributing the same amount as the Government towards the cost of the seminar. 
Representatives of Australian and overseas industry interested in attending the seminar. 
1977- 78 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The minute stated that in the absence of  Mr W.  F. Toomer, Quarantine Officer, North West Area,  Mr H.  Nicholls, Senior Inspector, Plant Quarantine, Penh, was contacted in regard to a parcel being held for quarantine purposes at Parcels Post Port Hedland. 
It further mentioned that the parcel had been receiving regular treatment from  Mr Toomer  to eradicate an insect infestation within the parcel which had presumably come from a packet of rice contained therein. 

 Mr Nicholls advised the officer to seize and immediately destroy the rice in the parcel and to forward the balance of the parcel to Penh for fumigation upon completion of which the clothing in the parcel would be forwarded to the addressee. 
When the officer went to the Post Office to carry out his instructions he found that the parcel was contained in a heavy polythene plastic bag'. Its contents were declared as clothing only. 
When opened to extract the rice the parcel was found to contain a quantity of other goods subject to quarantine. The packet containing rice had broken and its contents were spread throughout the parcel. 

 Mr Nicholls was again contacted and on his advice the complete parcel was forwarded to Quarantine Penh for treatment. 
The parcel was handled with care within the Post Office premises and before despatch to Perth was wrapped in two heavy plastic bags supplied by the Post Office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The officer concerned cannot recall whether or not the parcel was marked to indicate that it had been passed by Quarantine authorities in Penh. 
Yes. The Senior Inspector, Plant Quarantine, forwarded a quantity of formalin and rubber gloves with instructions tor cleaning the shoes. After treatment in accordance with those instructions the shoes were released. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Customs Officers are stationed at Carnarvon, Exmouth, Dampier, Port Walcott, Port Hedland, Broome, Derby and Wyndham (pan time) and are responsible for Customs requirements at all airports at which overseas aircraft land. At all places some work is carried out on behalf of the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
The Governor-General has appointed the SubCollector at each place mentioned as a Quarantine Officer under the Quarantine Act. They liaise closely with the Department of Health and do not release goods which may be subject to quarantine restriction before being satisfied that all requirements are met. 
It is not feasible to estimate the amount of time spent by officers in carrying out this responsibility as it is carried out in conjunction with normal Customs procedures. 
No. 
All Customs Officers in Western Australia receive induction training which includes sessions conducted by senior officers from Animal Quarantine and Plant Quarantine. General quarantine sessions are conducted by Customs Bureau Training Officers. 
All officers stationed at places mentioned in ( I ) above have received this training. 
In addition quarantine sessions are included in all subsequent training courses and workshops conducted by the Customs Bureau in Western Australia. 
All Sub-Collectors of Customs have attended at least three courses subsequent to induction training and were given special training and briefing on outport responsibilities before posting to their present positions. 
Other operational staff stationed at Port Hedland, Dampier and Port Walcott have the experience and knowledge of quarantine requirements to enable them to effectively perform their duties in this regard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures for motor vehicles imported under passenger concessions (i.e. free of duty) do not distinguish between those purchased by Australian residents whilst overseas and those purchased by non-Australian passengers. In addition, the statistics that are collected do not separate motor cars from motor vans and motor trucks qualifying for the concession. According to records held by the Bureau of Customs the total number of motor vehicles cleared under the passenger concessions during the period mentioned by the honourable member are as follows: 
In view of the variations in rates of duty and sales tax that occurred during the periods quoted and the variety of vehicles included in total figures, I am unable to state the actual amount of duty and sales tax that was forgone by the Commonwealth in respect of these vehicles. However, at present rates of duty and sales tax, viz. 45 per cent and 271/2 per cent, and on the assumption that the vehicles were all passenger motor cars, the amounts of duty and sales tax respectively would be of the order of $4,246,000 and $4,515,000. 
ABC: Defamation Action (Question No. 273) 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Having regard to the organisational changes which have taken place in the period mentioned by the honourable member the provision of details precisely in the form requested would involve, in the case of my department, an inordinate amount of effort which, in view of the staff economies which have been achieved, I am reluctant to authorise. 
I can, however, provide the following details of amounts paid to the airlines by the Department of Industry and Commerce, formerly the Department of Manufacturing Industry, over the two-year period to 3 1 March 1 976: 
-As the question indicates, the existing procedures regarding reversion control will continue to operate until 3 1 December this year. My attention has been drawn to a number of comments made by both the component manufacturing industry and sectors of the union movement regarding the decision in respect of reversion control announced by my colleague  Senator Cotton  some weeks ago. As the honourable member is aware, the decision on reversion control is part of an overall decision on the future of the motor vehicle industry in Australia. He also will be aware that under the requirements of the 85 per cent content plan the new entrants, Toyota and Nissan, will be required progressively to lift their level of local component content in order to reach, after the specified period of time, 85 per cent content. In the course of phasing up to the 85 per cent requirement it is expected that there could be an increased demand for local components. I can assure the honourable member and the House that the Government, although it has made a general decision on the future of the motor car industry, will watch the operation of the new rules very carefully. Naturally we will take into account the representations and comments made by the component manufacturers in Australia. 
by leave- I want to respond briefly to the very inflammatory attack made during the grievance debate by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  on my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  Quite understandably the honourable member for Chifley is concerned about future job prospects of people employed by a particular company. So is the Government; so is my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce. During the lunch break today he will be meeting a delegation. Suggestions that the reason that he could not see the delegation earlier today was his indifference to the view of the people employed by that company are quite incorrect, and I think the honourable member for Chifley knows that. The Government is concerned about their views. It will shortly make a decision on the Industries Assistance Commission report in question, and we will most certainly have in our minds the views put to us by the employees of Martin Wells Pty Ltd and also the views put to us by other sections of the industry regarding employment in that particular industry. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on files and rasps. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on other electronic equipment. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No strong criticisms of the Bill have been received although detailed discussions have been held with representatives of major sections of the travel industry. Following these discussions the industry has been undertaking a thorough examination of the Bill and I expect detailed submissions to be received within the next few weeks. 
No assurances have been given that any specific proposals to be submitted by the industry will be accepted by the Government. Full consideration will be given to the facts and opinions put before it by the industry. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 1 2 ( 1 976 ). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. 
The Proposals give effect to the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on spectacle and sunglass frames, sunglasses, etc. The effect of the decision is that initially a rate of 35 per cent will apply to goods previously subject to import restrictions and pans for those goods. This rate will phase to 30 per cent after 18 months and to 25 per cent after a further 18 months. Goods that were not subject to import restrictions will be dutiable at 25 per cent. The Proposals also contain changes of an administrative nature. 
The new duties will operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
I require the question to be put forthwith without debate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Most recruitment for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs is arranged through State Public Service Inspectors who supply staff in response to departmental requests. 
There are a number of officers within departmental units who are engaged on recruitment work either in a full time capacity or in association with other duties. Their activities relate mainly to processing requests for staff, issuing of recruitment demands to Public Service Inspectors, inducting new recruits, notifying vacancies and provisional promotions in the Australian Government Gazette and the arranging of interviews with selection committees. 
In some special categories of employment e.g., Preventive Officers, the Department does conduct a recruitment campaign with the assistance of the Public Service Inspector. These campaigns are usually conducted once a year and the time involved for the campaign depends on the number of people to be recruited. Because of the intermittent nature of this work and its integration with other management services activities it is not possible to be precise about the number of persons employed in such a capacity. Some 20 officers at any stage would be spending a part of their time at these duties- in aggregate there would be the equivalent of approximately three officers on full time recruitment work at a cost of some $27,000 per annum. 
There has been no use of private employment agencies this year. However the Prices Justification Tribunal did previously use an employment agency to engage the services of a small number of casual staff and a unit of the Department did in the past employ a casual worker for a short period from an agency. 
As far as available records indicate, the cost of obtaining services, including the wages of the casual employees, from private employment agencies in 1974-75 was to the order of $4,000. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service is used from time to time in the recruitment of exempt staff but nothing has been paid to it for this service. 
My attention has been drawn in recent weeks to reports about rapidly rising costs of farm machinery. I should point out to the House that, like manufacturers in other sectors, manufacturers of farm machinery are subject to the price notification procedures laid down in the Prices Jusification Act. To that extent, price increases in this area are no different from price increases in other sections and in other industries. However, I shall have some further investigations made. The honourable member will appreciate that in the first instance it is the responsibility of the Prices Justification Tribunal to determine whether or not a public inquiry is to be held in respect of any applications for price increases. The manufacturers of farm machinery are subject to the requirements of the Prices Justification Act and to the extent that that Act applies to them they must comply with it. I will have some further investigations made and inform the honourable gentleman accordingly. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Supply Bill (No. 2) 1976-77, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
1 know of no reason why the manufacture of flat glass in Australia should not continue on a sound basis, and as the Government's measures to restore the economy take effect this industry should participate in that improvement. The recent move by Pilkington-ACI Ltd to close its sheet glass operations at Alexandria was, I understand, designed to strengthen the industry 's position by concentrating the major part of that company's operations in one plant at Dandenong. The Dandenong plant is a modern plant using a more modern technology, namely the float glass process, for the production of flat glass. 
There are no plans at present to cease the manufacture at Alexandria of rolled decorative glass and wired glass. The closure of the major operation there, the production of sheet glass, should not affect the availability of flat glass in Australia. The capacity of the Dandenong plant is such that there should be adequate supplies to meet anticipated demand for clear flat glass in the domestic market in substances up to and including 6 mm. As in any other industry, the output of the local industry will no doubt be supplemented by imports to some extent, particularly to meet the requirements of those who prefer to use the somewhat cheaper sheet glass rather than float glass. There is no reason to believe that supplies of clear flat glass to the Australian market will be inadequate in the foreseeable future. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 13 ( 1976). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff 1966-1974. Customs TariffProposals No. 13 (1976) give effect to the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on Other Electronic Equipment; and Superphosphate Production. The Proposals also contain a change in the rates of duty applying to viscose high tenacity yarn and viscose tyre cord fabric. This change is consistent with the suggestion made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report of 25 June 1974 on Tyre Cord and Tyre Cord Fabric that the duties on viscose yarn and fabric be reduced to the same level as that applying to other competitive yarns and fabric should production of viscose in Australia cease. The new duties operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The principal manufacturers of ophthalmic frames in Australia at present are: 
Martin Wells Pty Ltd. Framemakers Australia Pty Ltd. Optex Eyewear Pty Ltd. Michael Kent Eyewear Pty Ltd. Melbrex 
Optical Laboratories Pty Ltd. In addition there are a few small firms manufacturing limited quantities, usually of a specialist nature. Martin Wells is also the principal local manufacturer of sunglass frames. 
I am not aware of any, and certainly no such manufacturer of any significant size has closed. However Polarizers (Australia) Pty Ltd. ceased production in July 1975, prior to which it was a major manufacturer of sunglass frames. The reason for the closure is understood to have been lack of profitability. 
Total employment in the manufacture of ophthalmic frames in Australia is approximately 370 persons. 
Markets have been established in a number of overseas countries for Australian-made ophthalmic frames, which would indicate that these products are of world standard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It is open to any interested group or firm to present a case to the Government for temporary protection against the effects of import competition. 
Such cases should be directed to the respective industry Minister or his Department. 
The case would not however be against a decision of the Commission as its role is purely advisory. Decisions on its advice are taken by the Government. 
No. 
Whilst applications for assistance are normally made by manufacturers engaged in a particular industry, as stated in ( 1 ) any group may present a case for protection. 
It is normal practice however for the industry department to consult the industry concerned as well as other interested parties before a decision is made on whether a reference should be forwarded to the Industries Assistance Commission or the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
I am advised that the 1976 tomato crop is sufficient to meet local requirements for tomatoes and tomato products. In these circumstances by-law admission is therefore inappropriate. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on copper ore and concentrates. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) to (5) I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Treasurer to Question No. 526 on page 2525 of  Hansard,  26 May 1976. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The announcement of the Government's policy for the motor vehicle industry followed a comprehensive review of all aspects of previous policy, involving extensive consultations with all sectors of the industry. The effects on employment were carefully considered in the course of this review. 
The policy is designed to avoid disruption and to ensure change occurs in a manageable way. However, future employment levels, both overall and in particular localities, will be affected by many factors in addition to Government policy. Those factors include the rate at which the market grows and the competitive success of the various companies involved. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report on Motor Vehicles- Import Restrictions (October 1975) provides three overall estimates for the industry up to 1980, based on three different sets of assumptions. One projection, which assumes the entry of Toyota and Nissan into the 85 per cent company average local content plan, estimates that total employment will decrease by 13 000 (74 000 to 61 000) over the period 1974 to 1976 and to increase by 19 000 (61 000 to 80 000) over the period 1976 to 1980. 
-The Government tabled the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum only a couple of weeks ago. An interdepartmental committee comprising representatives of the Department of National Resources, my own department and other interested departments has been established to examine the report. At this stage it is not possible to give any firm indication as to what is the Government's overall reaction to the report but it is fair to say that the report deals in great detail with all aspects of the petroleum industry in Australia. The report is extemely critical of some of the activities of the companies in the petroleum industry in Australia. Equally, the report points out the problems experienced by independent dealers in motor spirit. It also refers to the activities of some trade unions relating to bans on the sale of discount petrol. These are all very complex issues. To make dogmatic public statements about them without very careful examination and consideration would be a mistake. Overall, in reaching conclusions on the report, the Government will endeavour to achieve a proper balance between the legitmate right of the oil industry to operate profitably and preserving the position of independent dealers in the marketing of petroleum products, and also will look to the right of consumers to have reasonably priced petrol available in reasonable quantities. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 31 December 1976 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 7 to 13 introduced into the Parliament during this Session and not enacted to date. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collection of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals is protected against legal challenge for 6 months or until the close of the Session of Parliament, whichever first occurs. The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill which will formally enact the tariff changes contained in the proposals. It is anticipated a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill will be introduced during the Budget Session to cover the Proposals included in this Bill. 
It may be appropriate at this time to recall for honourable members the method by which tariff changes are made. Any proposed change is embodied in a Customs Tariff Proposal which is introduced into the House and which can be debated by honourable members at the time of its introduction. It is normal practice for a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill to be introduced during each year which consolidates all the Proposals introduced into the House since the previous Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, and honourable members have an opportunity at that time to debate the proposals or any general questions of Government tariff policies. 
The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: 
Motor Vehicles- Import Restrictions 
Commercial Motor Vehicles, Parts and Accessories 
Miscellaneous Industrial Machinery ( Injection Moulding Machines) 
Welding Consumables and Flux Cored Solder 
Precision Ground Steel Ball Bearings 
Filament, Fluorescent and Other Discharge Lamps 
Spectacle and Sunglass Frames, Sunglasses, etc. 
Other Electronic Equipment 
Superphosphate Production 
The changes relating to motor vehicles and commercial motor vehicles were set out in the statements made by myself to this House on 30 March 1976 and by my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in another place, and were further considered by the House on 6 and 7 April. All the other changes covered in the Bill have been the subject of speeches on their introduction. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, to amend the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967-73 and to introduce the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976, was foreshadowed by my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  on 4 February 1976 when announcing that a new and more cost effective incentive scheme would replace the existing system of incentives. The purpose of the proposed Bill is to terminate the existing grants scheme and replace it with a new program of incentives to operate from 1 July 1976. This program is designed to further the technological development and efficiency of Australian industry by the encouragement of industrial research and development. The program will be administered by a statutory authority, the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board. I will explain the structure and functions of the Board at a later stage in this speech. 
The present system of industrial research and development grants was introduced in 1967. It provided for the first time, a direct incentive to Australian manufacturing and mining firms to increase their own expenditures on research and development. The Act was subsequently amended in 1972 and 1973 in order to improve its effectiveness and to contain the escalating costs of the program. The current scheme has, therefore, been in operation for a period of 9 years. The Government has decided that, although the current incentive has been reasonably successful, it is now appropriate for a new program of incentives to be introduced which will permit a more effective use of public funds allocated for the purpose of stimulating industrial research and development. In addition, the complexity of the current scheme has inflicted substantial administrative work loads on the companies seeking assistance, as well as on the administering authority, the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board. We have therefore reviewed the present Act and have decided that the best course is to terminate the present incentive immediately rather than let it run its course until June 1977 when it would otherwise have expired. Accordingly, 1975-76 will be the final grant year to which payments under the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967-1973 would relate, and the new incentive will operate from 1 July 1976. 
Since the introduction of the incentive, grants of the order of $ 104m have been made to some 1800 individual companies. In respect of the first year of the scheme- 1967-1968- grants were made to 460 individual companies, compared to 1300 companies receiving assistance in 1974-75. As well as stimulating more companies to undertake more research and development activities, the scheme has been effective in a broader context. It has increased the employment opportunities for qualified and skilled research workers in this country. We believe continuing government support in this important area will help to ensure that the services of such personnel can be retained for the benefit of Australian industry and the nation generally. The experience of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has been that, during the currency of the program, a marked improvement has been observed in the willingness, capability, and variety of firms interested in developing and applying new and improved technology originating from Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation research. 
The Government recognises that technological innovation, leading to new and improved products and processes, and hence to greater efficiency and better resource utilisation, is basic to the competitive position of Australian industry. Industrial research and development is a key input in the process of technological innovation and, accordingly, there is a strong case for continuing government encouragement and support for such activities. Also, there is the need to avoid over-reliance by Australian firms on the acquisition of overseas technology and know-how and thus to minimise the extent of any associated franchise restrictions on our export markets or products. 
For a variety of reasons, Australian companies often face difficulties in financing research and development activities from their own resources. The comparatively small size of Australia's domestic market and the comprehensive pressures to reduce operating costs in the short term tend to restrict the availability of internal funds for research and development by firms. Smaller enterprises- although frequently in a position to obtain returns from research and development activities, which in relative terms compare favourably with the returns obtained by large corporations- often experience particular difficulty in obtaining finance for their research and development work. 
We believe that there now exists in this country an effective research and development capability that can be utilised to improve the competitiveness of our industrial sector. This in turn will contribute to greater real income growth for the nation as a whole. However, we have come to the view that government support for industrial research and development should in future be provided on a more selective basis. This will involve an evaluation of the relative technical and commercial merit of projects submitted by companies for assistance. Such a procedure should help in maximising the benefits accruing to the nation from a given level of financial assistance from public funds. 
In this regard the Government agrees with the conclusion contained in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Examiners Report on Science and Technology in Australia that the decisive criterion for government aid should be the firm's quality and its ability to carry innovations through all their successive stages from research to commercial success. However, the Government also acknowledges the fact that account must be taken of the special needs of those firms, predominantly small to medium sized, that are still not carrying out systematic research and development activities, or those which have not yet achieved a basic capability in this area of endeavour. 
Therefore, it is proposed that the new program will provide 2 elements of support to meet the needs of these 2 situations. It is proposed that there will be a system of grants designed to encourage companies, whose research and development activities are either non-existent or at an 'infant' stage, to commence and develop an involvement and basic capability in industrial research and development. The second element will consist of grants to companies which are given in relation to particular research and development projects. These grants will be introduced to provide assistance to companies which have already achieved a basic research and development capability. 
In relation to commencement grants the Bill provides for companies to be entitled to annual grants of up to 50 per cent of a company's eligible research and development expenditure, subject to a ceiling of $25,000 per grant year. The rate and ceiling to apply to any particular grant year will be examined annually in the Budget context. In the 1976-77 grant year the Government intends to limit the entitlements to the lesser of 25 per cent or $15,000, because of the serious budgetary situation. 
The proposed definition of eligible expenditure outlined in the Bill is significantly different to that applying to the current scheme. To date eligible expenditure has been calculated on the basis of the increase in research and development spending over a base period. Under this requirement, assistance provided under the Act fell off markedly after the first year or two for those companies that could not or did not want to increase continuously their research and development spending. 
The primary purpose of the new incentive is to encourage companies to commence systematic research and development activities. This will enable them to develop an appreciation of the importance of research and development and, consequently, build up their industrial research and development capacity and capability. It is the Government's aim to concentrate assistance on those kinds of expenditure most directly associated with industrial research and development so that basic research and development activity is assisted, rather than incidental associated activities. Accordingly, eligible expenditure will cover net spending in the grant year in question on salaries and wages of research and development personnel, on research and development plant and equipment, prototypes and on scientific and technical reference material. I emphasise that assistance will be given on the basis of net expenditure, not increases in expenditure as has been the case since 1967. 
Certain limits have been placed on the amount of assistance that would be available to companies under the commencement encouragement section of the program. The objective of these grants is to help companies to the stage where they can appreciate the benefit of conducting systematic industrial research and development. A period of 5 years is judged reasonable for this purpose. Accordingly eligibility for commencement grant assistance will be limited to a 5-year period. Further, since some companies have already received assistance under the present Act there is a need for transitional provisions to ensure that reasonable equity prevails as between companies. Therefore the maximum grant level which will be available to any one company over the 5 years will be subject to reduction by the amount of assistance already received under the present Act. Moreover, a company, or group of associated companies, would be ineligible for a commencement grant if its total research and development expenditure in the 8 financial years prior to the first grant year for which commencement grant application has been made exceeds $250,000. 
I will now turn to the project grants element of the Bill which is to form the main thrust of the Government's new incentive. The Bill provides for a system of project grants designed to give support for firms with established research and development facilities to undertake specific lines of industrial research and development. The Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board will be empowered to provide grants in relation to specific projects. The Government will provide funds annually to the Board which will allocate the available fund's to companies after evaluation of the technical and commercial merits of the research and development activities proposed, and the contribution such projects are expected to make to the national interest. 
Unlike the commencement grants, companies will have no legal right to assistance except where the Incentives Board has entered into an agreement with the company. The Bill will also enable grants in the form of progress payments to be made in accordance with the agreement which will need to be concluded between the Board and the company concerned. Progress payments will be conditional on the Board being satisfied at each stage, as to prospects of the overall success of the project. A number of constraints will operate to ensure a reasonable distribution of available funds between companies, and that only those projects worthy of support in the national interest are assisted. Subject to these, the Board will be enabled to provide a rate of grant in individual cases which it judges to be compatible with inducing the company concerned to carry out a particular research and development project which would otherwise not take place, or be delayed. The maximum overall rate of assistance for any one project over its life will not normally exceed 25 per cent of the research and development expenditure on the project but in the first year of the project- when the risk element is highest- the rate could be up to 50 per cent. Grant payments will be limited to $250,000 per annum per company or group of associated companies. However, the Minister for Industry and Commerce will be authorised to approved grants exceeding $250,000 per annum in respect of projects recommended by the Board as having exceptional merit. 
In the administration of the project grants element, the Board will also be required to pay due regard to total funds allocated to it for grant purposes in the Budget context, as well as constraints imposed on its powers to enter into financial commitments in respect of future grant years. The selection by the Board of research and development projects for grants will entail the consideration of a number of criteria. These include the prospects of improvement in resource utilisation; the competitiveness, efficiency and export performance of the firm and industry concerned; the resultant advance on the technology currently employed in Australian industry; and whether the project is likely to attract a satisfactory level of support from the applicant company itself within a reasonably time span, without the provision of government assistance. Other factors taken into consideration will include the nature and suitability of a company's research and development resources to be employed on a project, and the ability of the firm meaningfully to exploit the results of the research and development, either by itself or through arrangements with other organisations. 
The Government recognises the need for the incorporation of safeguard clauses and conditions in project grant agreements to protect the Government and the public interest. Companies will be required under the Act to give an undertaking to exploit in Australia the results of the industrial research and development for the benefit of the Australian economy. Where a company receiving assistance fails to proceed with commercial exploitation of the results of a project, or decides to terminate the research and development program, consideration will be able to be given to the Government acquiring the rights to any results of the research and development that has been undertaken. Where projects supported by the Government lead to industrially and commercially profitable ventures, the authority would be empowered in certain cases to draw up royalty arrangements commensurate with the proportion of the risk borne by the Government. 
As under the existing grants scheme, firms eligible for grants must be companies incorporated in Australia, and have been engaged in Australia in the manufacture of goods or mining operations in the relevant grant year or within a reasonable period thereafter. We believe it is vital for private industry to be reasonably assured of continuity of government support for industrial research and development if the incentive is to be meaningful and effective in stimulating a buildup of research and development staff and facilities. Accordingly, it is proposed that the new program of incentives will operate for an initial period of 5 years from 1 July 1976 to 30 June 198 1, with the last year of a period covered by a project grant agreement to be a year ending before July 1984. It is envisaged that a review of the program should be concluded before expiration of the new legislation and in time for any new support measures to proceed immediately on expiration of the proposed program. 
The approach I have outlined should ensure the build-up in the private sector of a competent industrial research and development capacity. It will be government policy to ensure that this capacity is utilised to the greatest extent possible. Although the Government has its own research facilities in certain areas the Board will be empowered to act as an executing agency to facilitate or arrange the contracting out of public interest research programs to industry where the Government's own facilities are inadequate or do not exist. It is envisaged that in all such cases the Board would only carry out such a role after receiving specific instructions from the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It is also envisaged that when such directions are given specific funds would be provided over and above the funds allocated for the 2 elements of the incentive scheme that I have outlined earlier. 
Having described in broad terms the proposed new program of incentives for industrial research and development, I shall now outline the proposed administrative arrangements. The administering authority will be required to undertake a greater degree of qualitative evaluation of projects for which assistance is sought, than is required under the present Act. Therefore, the Industrial Research and Development 
Incentives Board and its supporting staff structure will be constituted to equip it with the necessary skills to carry out its task. The administrative arrangements are set out in detail in the Bill. I should mention in particular that the reconstituted Board will consist of a full time Chairman and not less than two, or more than four, part time members, appointed by the Governor-General. Provision will exist for a part time Advisory Committee to the Board, not exceeding 8 members, to be appointed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce. The Board will be required to report annually to the Minister on its activities in the immediately preceding year. The report will list the companies receiving grants and the amounts concerned. Without breaching commercial confidentiality, the areas of manufacturing and mining operations covered by grants and the nature of project grant assistance will also be included in the reports, which will be tabled annually in both Houses of Parliament. 
The Government is confident that this new program of incentives will provide support more closely oriented to the needs of industry and the national interest. Financial assistance in the form of project grants will be provided to Australian companies involved in industrial research. This should result in the development of new or substantially improved products and processes which offer good prospects for commercial exploitation in the domestic and export markets. Companies will also be encouraged to commence and develop industrial research and development activities through commencement encouragement grants. The Government believes that this 2-pronged program of financial assistance represents a more cost effective means of promoting the technological development and efficiency of Australian industry. 
I apologise to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  for not having been in a position to provide him with a copy of this second reading speech before I commenced. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) Official estimates of expenditure by Australians travelling overseas during 1975-76 are not yet available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. However, figures for the first three quarters of 1975-76 show that Australians travelling overseas spent $336 million. 
Similarly, estimates of expenditure by international travellers to Australia are available only for the first three quarters of 1975-76. These figures show that $174m was spent during that period. 
Australia's international reserves are in a healthy position and are not a matter for concern. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
No. Arrangements for printing volumes II-IV of the Committee's report are well advanced. 
See(l). 
The volumes will be released as bulk copies become available from the printer. This is expected to be around 2 June in the case of volumes III and IV and two weeks thereafter in the case of Volume II. 
It is reasonable to expect that submissions on the White Paper will draw on a wide range of source material including personal experience, academic studies, reports by international organisations such as the OECD and studies by Government departments and agencies both in Australia and overseas. In submitting its report, the Jackson Committee stated that Volume I was the main part of its report. The likelihood of high quality submissions therefore cannot be considered as being necessarily dependent on the availability of the supporting volumes of the Jackson report. However, the Jackson Committee's work relates directly to the subject matter of the White Paper and publication of the statistics and commissioned studies contained in volumes II-IV of the Committee's report should help promote continuing discussion of the many issues raised in the Committee s main report, which was released on 30 October 1975. 
in reply- I do not think that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  expects me to respond immediately to that question. I shall be talking to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  about the matter very shortly and I shall take into account everything that the honourable gentleman has said. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
in reply- In replying to this debate I shall do what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has accused me of doing in other tariff debates, and that is thanking honourable members for the contributions they have made to the debate. I envy the simplicity with which my good friend and colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  views the question of tariffs. I do not claim to bring to a consideration of tariff issues- I do not say this in any sarcastic sense, and I know my friend knows that I do not say it in that sense- the years of concentration and consideration that the honourable member for Wakefield has given to them both in government and in opposition. But in the short time that I have had ministerial responsibility for a large section of the tariff area, one thing has impressed itself upon me, and that is that one ought not to be too dogmatic and one ought not to be too doctrinaire when one talks about tariff matters. 
I hope that when debates take place in this Parliament on tariff matters we can free ourselves from the rather old fashioned descriptions of free trade and protection. Indeed, it is not a simple matter. There are a number of indisputable areas. Of course, it is indisputable that Australia should develop sound international trading relations. Of course, it is indisputable that a nation as wealthy as Australia should be prepared to assist developing countries with their trade. That is a point of view which I have long accepted. It is a point of view that I was able to put m a valuable discussion that I had only last week with one of the larger industry associations of Australia, and a point of view which in general terms won acceptance from that group. 
Having put that proposition, one can see that it is not a simple matter. It does not automatically follow that we must embark upon a policy of progressively and speedily lowering tariff levels in Australia. I am enchanted by the fact that in Opposition the Australian Labor Party has a new found fondness for the idea of debating tariff matters in this Parliament and of subjecting tariff proposals to parliamentary scrutiny. That enchantment becomes intrigue when I find that the second  speaker  in this debate on the Opposition side was none other than the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  who, when he was a Minister in the previous Government, was a past master of shutting out any parliamentary consideration of government policy measures. I find it very strange that the honourable member for Port Adelaide should stand up in this House and say that we must have more discussion on important tariff decisions when the most important tariff decision that has been taken in this country since the end of the Second World War- I refer to the decision which was taken in July 1973- was taken and announced during the winter recess of the Parliament during that year. It was done initially by Gazette notice, the very method that the honourable member for Port Adelaide has criticised. So the honourable member's criticism of the machinery used by the Government to implement tariff decisions comes very strangely from a member of a Party which, when in office, really made it impossible for this Parliament to debate and to consider tariff matters. Of course there ought to be discussion. While I have responsibility for tariff matters in this House it will be my intention to facilitate as much as possible the sort of debate that has taken place today. 
During the course of his remarks the honourable member for Port Adelaide raised a number of specific matters. In groping around for a few debating points the honourable member raised the issue of vintage cars. The Government has made a decision which simply says that any car that is over 30 years old will be treated for tariff purposes as a vintage car and is therefore admitted to the country free of duty. The honourable member for Port Adelaide admitted that it can hardly be argued that cars of that age represent damaging competition for the local industry, so he provides in his own words a logical justification for that decision. 
He criticised the delay between the finalisation of the report on injection moulding machinery, which occurred in December of last year, and the tabling of that report. It is fair to say that a period of almost 6 months has elasped. It is also fair to say- the honourable member knows this- that when the present Government came into office there was a very substantial backlog of Industry Assistance Commission reports in respect of which the previous Government had made no decision. The honourable member also knows that the principal IAC report on the motor car industry was delivered, I think, in the middle of 1974 and that a period of some 18 months elapsed before it became necessary for the Government of the day, the then Whitlam Government, to send another reference to the IAC in effect to bring that report up to date. The honourable member knows very well that many of the bases upon which that report was written had been altered during that long period of delay. 
I agree with the honourable member for Port Adelaide that unnecessary delay in making government decisions on IAC reports is a bad thing. It was for that reason that shortly after this Government came into office it determined a new procedure for dealing with IAC reports, which involved the introduction of a method of producing draft reports on which the Government and the IAC could obtain industry reaction. In addition, when final reports were brought down by the Industries Assistance Commission the Government would require its own officials to make a report on the recommendations of the IAC report within a period of 30 days. Some sections of industry have criticised the draft report procedure. I say to those who have criticised it, whether they be in industry or on the other side of the House, that it is part and parcel of an approach designed to speed up the process of government decision making on IAC reports. The Government asks that the new system be given an opportunity to operate, a chance to work itself out. The Government believes that in the long run the methods that it has introduced will improve the quality of decision making on IAC reports. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide raised the matter of the abolition of the reversion rules which are included in the motor vehicle plan announced by my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  at the end of March. I know that there has been considerable comment from sections of the component manufacturing industry. The Government is very well aware of the views that have been expressed by the component manufacturers regarding this section of the Government's motor car plan. I think it is worth saying to the House that the decision taken by the Government regarding the reversion rules is part of an overall decision regarding the future of the motor vehicle industry. What is sometimes forgotten by those who criticise that section of the Government's report is that under the motor vehicle plan the entry of the Japanese manufacturers into production in Australia means that, so far as the rules of the plan are concerned, they will be required over a period of years to increase progressively the local component of the motor vehicles that they manufacture in Australia. Similarly, existing manufacturers will be entitled over a period of years to reduce the element of local content from 95 per cent in some cases to 85 per cent. What is inherent in the decision taken by the Government about reversion control is that in the process of new entrants to the plan increasing their percentage of local content, as they are obliged to do under the rules, there will be a corresponding increase in demand on their part for locally sourced components. 
The Government is very conscious of the concern felt by the component manufacturing industry. A large number of representations have been made, particularly to  Senator Cotton  who is the Minister responsible, and also to myself. We are listening to those representations. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that an announcement is needed before the Parliament rises. The honourable member sees everything in simple terms. He thinks the question of tariffs is very easy and that all one has to do is make rapid fire decisions. We had a good demonstration of how easy it was to make rapid fire decisions on tariff matters under the Whitlam Government. We all know how effective those rapid fire decisions- those kitchen cabinet decisions- were in the middle of 1 973. It is not an easy area or an area in which one should get carried away in dogma. The Government's motor vehicle plan is an overall package. One section of it cannot be looked at in isolation from the others. If the honourable member for Port Adelaide is true to the criticism he made of the Government during his remarks he will recognise that there is an element of ad hockery in having given careful consideration to an overall plan for the motor vehicle industry and, within a matter of weeks of that plan being announced, altering sections of it. The Government is aware of the views of the component manufacturers. We are not utterly inflexible but we are saying that this is a part of the overall plan. There was a reason for the inclusion of the decision regarding the reversion rule. We believe that decision was reasonable and it is part of the overall plan. 
in reply- I wish to reply to 2 points which were raised in the debate. I reply firstly to the point raised by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I have discussed this matter with my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  He has indicated to me, as I understand he has indicated to the honourable member, that the point will be considered by the Minister and by the Government when the legislation is passed. I think it fair to say that this legislation is designed to provide support assistance to manufacturing and mining companies which carry out or intend to carry out systematic industrial research and development. While I share completely the view- I am sure all members of the Government share it- that there should be no discrimination against individuals, I think it is fair to say that there would be very few cases in which individuals who did not have the benefit of some corporate existence would want or qualify for this type of assistance. While I am sure the honourable member did not intend to imply this, I think it is fair to say that we can no longer equate a company with size, because the great majority of what we frequently refer to as small businesses in Australia are at present proprietary companies. There would be very few examples in the mining or manufacturing area of a small business that was other than a proprietary company. 
-I agree with the honourable member for Wakefield; there are some. Because there are some and because it is probable that the legislation as presently drawn does not cover them, the Minister for Industry and Commerce has said that he will look at the matter. He asked me to assure the honourable member that that will be done. 
The second comment I wish to make on what the honourable gentleman said is that there is, as I think he knows, a program of assistance to help Australian inventors. This is administered by an advisory committee which is responsible to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Some of the people whom the honourable member has in mind would be entitled to assistance from that committee. I would not want the House to think that in drawing the legislation in its present form the Government had any intention of excluding individuals; rather the legislation was drawn on the not unreasonable assumption that it would normally be a company which would want and be entitled to this type of assistance. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  referred to the question of expenditure. I think the honourable member for Riverina recognised that in looking at this area in isolation reductions were unfortunate, but that in the sort of economic climate which we have at present we cannot look at individual areas in total isolation. I think it is fair to say that the level of assistance which will be provided is still very substantial, that the method by which it will be provided has been greatly improved by the new legislation and that the new legislation will- I think, and the Government strongly believes- lead to assistance being given to companies which have been able to demonstrate a skill in managing resources and an ability to evaluate an innovation policy. In other words, I think it will be efficient legislation and an effective use of the money made available for the scheme. I thank honourable members for the speedy passage that they are giving to the legislation, which will make it possible for the new scheme to come into operation, I understand, on 1 July. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
As I indicated to the honourable member for Robertson when he asked me that question in the first week of this session, that matter is within the responsibility of my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce and his Department. The matter is still under consideration by the Government, but a decision is expected in the fairly near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A general requirement in respect of imports of goods entitled to tariff preferences as being the produce or manufacture of developing countries is that, in addition to the normal declaration as to the correctness of the invoice, the exporter must make a special declaration on the face of the invoice to the effect that: 
the final process of manufacture of the goods for which special rates are claimed has been performed in the country concerned; and 
not less than one half of the factory or works cost of the goods is represented by the value of labour or materials, or of labour and materials of the specified country or countries and Australia. 
An additional safeguard applies in relation to goods which are imported from developing countries at special preferential rates under quota arrangements applying only to certain goods from particular countries. Before being granted a quota, Australian importers are obliged to submit to the Bureau of Customs firm evidence that goods to be imported are covered by a confirmed order placed with a supplier in the developing country. 
Routine examination of invoices at the time of importation is supported by random physical examination of the goods themselves and by selective in-depth examination of documents on an ' after the event 'basis. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I ) Authority has been given for the use of Avalon airfield facilities by the three major Australian civil airlines (QANTAS, TAA and ANSETT) for jet and turbo-prop training purposes, and occasional approval has been given to other operators for such purposes. Authority has also been given for aircraft of over 5700 kg all-up weight to operate from Avalon on domestic charier Mights, subject to specific approval on each occasion. Other aircraft may be authorised to use the facilities in exceptional circumstances. Department of Transport aircraft also use the facilities. 
Private aircraft are not entitled to use the airfield, which is part of the Government Aircraft Factories provided basically for test and development flying of defence aircraft and aircraft developed or built by the Factories. However, if in connection with the business of the Government Aircraft Factories or in connection with approved civil airline training operations, or if in the opinion of the responsible officer the proposed use is justified to meet an unforeseeable or special need and is convenient in relation to the official operations of the airfield, the use of the facilities may be authorised. 
The officer in charge of the Avalon airfield (the Area Manager, Government Aircraft Factories, Avalon) is entitled to authorise the use of the facilities. Whenever necessary he will seek direction from higher authority; the ultimate authority is myself, as the Minister administering the Supply and Development Act under which the airfield is established. Flight plans as required under the Air Navigation Regulations must be submitted to the appropriate operations authorities of the Department of Transport. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The only request for increased protection has been that received from one of a number of firms manufacturing trotting and pacing boots. This request is at present receiving the attention of the Department of Industry and Commerce. 
I move: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The previous Government did not enter into any commitment to provide funds for the Broken Hill Tourist and Travellers' Centre. This project was one of several submitted by the New South Wales Government for consideration under the scheme of Commonwealth Government grants for the development of tourist attractions in 1975-76. Following its review of expenditure in February of this year, the Government decided to immediately terminate this program of grants. All existing commitments will be honoured. No grants were approved during 1975-76. (3)1 understand that the New South Wales Government has announced a grant of $ 1 50,000 to the project, representing 25 per cent of the estimated total cost. The grant is conditional on the Broken Hill City Council being able to fund the balance of 75 per cent of total cost and commencing work on the project. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question. (1), (2), (3), (4), (6) and (7): Details of vessels on order or under construction in Australian yards as at 23 April 1 976 for which Australian Government subsidy assistance has been sought and other vessls for which construction has been arranged through the Shipbuilding Division of the Department of Industry and Commerce, are provided in Table A. Reliable data on other vessels on order or under construction in Australian shipyards is not available. (8), (9), (10), (11), (13) and (14): Details of vessels completed in Australian yards between 12 February 1972 and 23 April 1976 for which Australian Government subsidy assistance was granted, and other vessels for which construction was arranged through the Shipbuilding Division of the Department of Industry and Commerce are provided in Table B Details are also provided of completions of ship conversion projects for which subsidy assistance has been given. Reliable data on other vessels constructed in Australian shipyards is not available. 
and (12): The cost of individual vessels and the subsidy paid or to be paid on each is confidential to the shipbuilder, the owner and the Government, and therefore cannot be made available. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Textile Authority on Knitted and Woven Apparel. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Temporary Assistance Authority on Orange Juice, and Sheets and Plates of Iron or Steel. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Industries Assistance Commission on Short-term Assistance to Commercial Theatre; Paints, Varnishes and Lacquers; Railway and Tramway Locomotives, Rolling Stock, etc; and an interim report on Domestic Refrigerating Appliances etc. (Chest Freezers of up to 350 litres capacity). 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As part of its report of 10 July 1974 on Passenger Motor Vehicles, the Industries Assistance Commission included a section on cost studies of the motor vehicle industry in Australia and other countries. The IAC uses the concept of minimum efficient scale (m.e.s.) which is where doubling of scale of production would not reduce costs by more than 2 per cent. The IAC found that the m.e.s. of stamping was 600 000 p.a. and of engine manufacture 3S0 000 p.a., and concluded that to take full advantage of economies of scale a manufacturer would need to fully utilise a plant with a capacity of 400 000 p.a. However, it appears that once 200 000 p.a. is reached, the cost savings from additional output are greatly reduced. 
The IAC found that total Australian capacity (for the three manufacturers) was 430 000 p.a. for stamping and 440 000 for engine manufacture. Details of capacity on a plant by plant basis are not available as this information is regarded by vehicle manufacturing companies as confidential. 
According to figures produced by the IAC in its 1974 report, the variable cost of producing a vehicle (excluding fixed overheads) ranged from $2,200 per vehicle at a production run of 30 000 p.a. to $1,790 at a production run of 500 000 p.a. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask for leave to move a motion to discharge certain tariff proposals which were moved earlier in the year and which constitute part of Order of the Day No. 30. These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1976 which has now been assented to. 
In the very limited time available, let me say at the outset that a government of the Commonwealth has essentially 3 options open to it in this area: It can leave the question of the regulation of the securities market and corporate regulation generally entirely to individual State legislation or to cooperative arrangements between the States alone. Secondly, as proposed by the Labor Government and repeated today in the remarks of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  it can legislate unilaterally without seeking the co-operation or the assistance of the States. Thirdly, it can adopt a course of action which the current Government outlined in a statement I made on 6 July. That course of action is to seek the co-operation of the States in establishing a scheme which has 2 very essential elements. 
The first essential element is that a national regulatory authority be established. If the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and all the other Opposition members who are interested in this subject had read the proposals- I am sure they have, or I hope they have- that were outlined in the statement issued on 6 July, they would have found a proposal for the establishment of a national commission. It will be a commission that will be able to act irrespective of State boundaries, a commission that will be vested with investigatory powers, and a commission which will work through the existing State administrations but which, through being able to give directions to State administrations, will have the capacity to investigate the matters which are of legitimate concern to people on both sides of this House. We do not believe that this is a matter that can or ought to be left entirely to State administrations. 
When the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill was introduced in 1974, the Liberal and Country Parties indicated that as an Opposition we supported in principle the establishment of a national regulatory authority. The essential recommendation of the Rae Committee was for the establishment of such a commission. We had very strong reservations about some of the provisions of that Bill, and those provisions have been repeated in the Bill presented by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. He was very busy talking about the bad side of the securities market- I know there is a bad side of it- but what he did not mention, of course, was that one of the provisions of this Bill would give the national commission the right to appoint one of its officers to the board of every company in Australia. That is one of the provisions to which we objected. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said that this Bill was researched and that it was highly respected. It was not highly respected by the Senate committee that investigated its provisions. I am not referring now to the Rae Committee. I invite the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith to talk to some of the members of his own Party who sat on the Senate committee that investigated the provisions of the Bill. What is wrong with the approach of the Opposition? It is not so much that the Opposition wants a system of national regulation but that it wants a system of national regulation to the entire exclusion of the States. 
Exactly. The Opposition wants it to the entire exclusion of the States. 
What the honourable member for KingsfordSmith wants is a situation in which a large Canberra based bureaucracy of 700 or 800 officers is concerned with the minutia of every detail of the 390 000 proprietary companies in Australia. He wants a situation which inevitably will lead to months, perhaps years, of chaos and in which we could easily have in Sydney, Melbourne and the other capital cities of Australia parallel State and Federal companies offices. We could have a situation in which a subsidiary of a public company would have to lodge its documents in the State office and the parent company would have to lodge its documents in the Federal office. 
Certainly what Australia needs is a system of national regulation of the securities market. It is a proper and appropriate concern of the Commonwealth. But we do not believe that the method proposed by the Australian Labor Party when in government and again today in Opposition is the right one. The greatest contribution that the honourable member for KingsfordSmith could make to the achievement of certain agreed objectives in this area would be to urge the members of his own Party who form the Government of New South Wales to support the proposals that the Federal Government has announced. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 14 to 19 ( 1976). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals Nos 14 to 18 formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by  Gazette  notices whilst Parliament was not sitting during the winter recess. These changes arise from the Government's decisions, already announced, on the recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on the following references: Sheets and plates of iron or steel; cellulose acetate flake; hosiery; the aerospace industry; paints, varnishes and lacquers; aluminium and articles thereof. They also arise from decisions on reports by the Temporary Assistance Authority in respect of knitted and woven apparel and orange juice. 
Proposals No. 15 also includes tariff changes resulting from the biennial review of the system of tariff preferences for developing countries. Proposals No. 1 9 give effect to the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on railway and tramway locomotives, rolling stock, etc. 
The effect of this decision is that all goods, with the exception of battery operated locomotives and parts therefor, covered by the report will be dutiable at the rate of 30 per cent. Battery operated locomotives and parts therefor will be dutiable at 15 per cent. These new duties will operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of all changes contained in the Proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on 'Petroleum and Mining Industries '. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Temporary Assistance Authority on 'Thick Plywood (exceeding 5.5 mm in thickness)'. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 20 (1976). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Customs TariffProposals No. 20 (1976) give effect to the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Temporary Assistance Authority in its report on thick plywood. The effect of the decision is that tariff quotas will apply to imports of plywood exceeding 5.5 mm and not exceeding 23 mm in thickness. A temporary additional duty of 50c per sq m for each one millimetre in thickness in excess of 5.5 mm will apply to imports of plywood in excess of quota. The new duties operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
( 1 1.0)- I require the debate to be extended. I would like to respond to 2 matters raised during the adjournment debate. Firstly I will quickly respond to the matter raised by my colleague the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde).  The honourable member shares, with a number of people on both sides of the House, a deep and continuing interest in the question of the levels of tariff protection afforded Australian industries. The subject of the honourable member's speech tonight was the tariff review program. The Government in March or April of this year expressed the view that the tariff review program should continue. It expressed the view that it was desirable in the interests of having an equitable application of tariff protection in Australia that a systematic review of tariffs be carried out. There are in fact 3 groups of tariff references left which have to be transmitted to the Industries Assistance Commission. When transmitted they will complete the tariff review program that was initiated by the McMahon Government in 1972. 
It is true, as the honourable member for Moore pointed out- it has become a matter of public record- that the Government has received representations from the Metal Trades Industries Association to defer the transmission of one reference. I inform the honourable member for Moore that as indicated during a televised program on Sunday night by my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  the representations made to the Government by the Metal Trades Industries Association are under consideration. I equally assure the honourable member that the arguments he advanced during the course of his remarks on this subject will be taken into account by the Government when reaching a decision on this representation. The other matter to which I would like to respond relates to the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam). 
The Minister may require that the debate be extended until 11.10 p.m. to enable Ministers to speak in reply to matters raised in the preceding adjournment debate. 
It does not say anything in relation to departments. I would rule that to enable Ministers to speak in reply to matters raised must - 
Speaking to the point of order.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I submit that you must be guided by the terms of the sessional order in question. The understanding of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  might be helpful in allowing you to reach a decision. Surely you must pay regard to the terms of the sessional order. I find it rather surprising that before I had even indicated the subject matter of my response to the honourable member for Grayndler a point of order should be taken. I think it is fair that any response by a Minister in these circumstances should be limited to canvassing matters raised by private members. To that extent I agree with the honourable member for Corio. To say that the sessional order means that a Minister cannot respond to items raised by private members during the course of the debate, particularly when may of the matters raised are in the nature of general political criticisms, either of the Government or the Opposition and general political attacks on the Government is incorrect. It is the responsibility of the Minister at the table, if he thinks it appropriate, to respond to these comments. 
Motion (by  Mr Scholes)  put: 
That the Minister be not further heard. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Trade Practices Act Review Committee dated August 1 976. 
Pursuant to section 171 of the Trade Practices Act 1974-1976 I present the Annual Report of the Trade Practices Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Both the tanning and footwear industries have been subjected to recent inquiries by the Industries Assistance Commission. Late last year the previous Government accepted the Commission's recommendations in relation to long term levels of assistance that should be accorded to the tanning industry. These levels of assistance are approximately equivalent to the previously existing levels of assistance. In relation to the footwear industry the Commission is to report to the Government no later than 30 November this year on the long term assistance required of the industry. 
Assistance measures available to the tanning industry were established following acceptance of the report of the Industries Assistance Commission of 24 April 1973 on Tanned and Finished Leather; Dressed Fur. In relation to the footwear industry, the Government's attitude towards the longer term assistance measures for this industry will be decided following consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the industry. In the meantime imports of most types of footwear are subject to import licensing controls. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There is a wide variation, in terms of quality and other characteristics, between hides offered for sale in Australia. In view of this and the fact that there is no official price index solely for hides sold in Australia it is not possible to give a firm answer to this part of the honourable member's question. However, in general terms, the available information suggests that for some hide types prices have increased by up to 350 per cent between early 1 975 and mid 1976. 
The price of hides and skins is sensitive to demand and supply situations. As most hides and skins are exported, overseas purchasers would influence the price structure. 
Price rises for hides and skins alone should not put the local tanning industry at a serious disadvantage against overseas producers of leather who source their requirements on the international market. Cost increases in other areas would have an important bearing on the well being of the industry. 
The increasing price of hides would effect the price level of leather used in footwear production. However the final cost effect of price increases in hides would constitute only a small element of the total costs of the overall footwear industry. The footwear manufacturing industry has recently been the subject of an inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission and a report on the industry's long term assistance requirements is expected to be received shortly. This report will comment on the major influences affecting future development of the industry. 
Commonwealth Property: Damage in Demonstrations (Question No. 856) 
-I understand that the Trade Practices Commission has in fact received a number of complaints about misleading advertising. I think the honourable gentleman would be aware that arising out of some of those complaints the Commission sought my consent to the prosecution of one of the major health insurance funds regarding misleading advertising. That consent was given. I do not wish to say anything further about that case. The general issue which the question raises concerns the Government. I am particularly concerned, as is the Minister for Health, that in the next few weeks and in the months immediately following 1 October there should be accurate and full disclosure of the conditions of entry and the conditions of benefit in respect of both Medibank Private and the private health insurance funds. 
The first question I think the House is entitled to ask today of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is this: Is he really serious? He has been a member of this House long enough to know the forms. If he is really concerned about mandates being broken, if he is really sensitive - 
I am not surprised at the sensitivity of members of the Opposition about the performance they have heard during the past quarter of an hour. Having raised a matter of public importance, having ignored the forms of the House which normally are invoked when one wishes to make general criticisms of a government's performance and of a Prime Minister's performance, one can only conjecture as to whether the Leader of the Opposition is unsure of his troops unsure of the charge he has levelled against the Government, or whether he is confused and short on facts. It is no wonder that the 
Leader of the Opposition was sensitive about the form he should use when talking about the mandate of this Government. His own mandate as Leader of the Opposition is extremely dubious. He talked about the mandate of the Leader of the Government. He ought to look to the sort of mandate that his own Party gave him after the worst electoral defeat in the history of Australia suffered at the end of last year. He ought to recall the words of his former Deputy Prime Minister, quoted in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  on 5 January 1976: 
The first thing the Party has to do is get rid of  Mr Whitlam  as Leader. 
Or the words of Jack Edgerton, quoted on 28 July: 
I could never trust Whitlam again nor could Australia. He has never given loyalty and this is one of the reasons why he isn 't Prime Minister of Australia. 
Yet the very person about whom those words were spoken has the temerity to get up in this House and talk about dishonesty on this side of the Parliament. He presided over the most dishonest government since Federation. He led his Party to the worst electoral defeat in the history of Australia. He created divisions in the community which never existed before. He divided country people from city people. He perpetuated, and the policies of his Party perpetuated, divisions in the Australian community which we had not had since the 1930s. Yet, unrepentant, what did he say? As recently as last week he said: 'I would do it all again. ' In the  National Times  of 6 September he was asked: 
Is there a need for the Labor Party to revise its attitude towards the rural sector and the country areas generally? 
The answer: 
No. The Labor Party has been basically right in its attitude to rural industry. 
That is why we find not one representative of the Labor Party sitting in this Parliament today who is from a genuinely rural area. That is why, one by one, the rural seats of Australia have fallen to the Liberal and National Country Parties. That is the nature of the record of the man who now calls in question the mandate that was given to this Government on 13 December last year. Essentially, it was a mandate to do 4 things. It was a mandate for responsible government, it was a mandate for economic recovery, it was a mandate for the individual and it was a mandate for social reform. One by one those broad mandates have been implemented. With an immaculate sense of timing, the Leader of the Opposition has raised this matter of public importance today, the very day that hot from the presses comes a publication which I would like to table listing the achievements of the FraserAnthony coalition Government in 9 months of office. Of 51 specific undertakings given in December last year, 39 have been implemented in only 9 months. I table this document,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I have a very large quantity of copies of it and I seek the indulgence of the  Clerk  to have them circulated. There are other printing presses working overtime in Australia now and I should very much like this document handed around. 
-The first of the mandates was to restore responsible government. We have restored the Cabinet and parliamentary system of government in Australia. No longer does the Prime Minister of this country communicate with his Ministers through the columns of the daily newspapers. It is a great pity that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is in New York because he would know exactly what I am talking about. Once again the institution of Parliament has been restored as the supreme element of the Government of Australia. Cabinet government has been restored. The role of Parliament has been enhanced. Relations between the Commonwealth and the States have been given a new lease of life by this Government's federalism policy. The role of local government has been enhanced. Long neglected, given golden words but little assistance by our predecessors, local government now takes its place as a true partner in the system of government in Australia. Above all, relations between the coalition Parties in this Government have never been better. 
The second great mandate we were given on 13 December was a mandate for economic recovery. We have taken action to get control of the national Budget. We have ended the unbridled expansion of Federal Government spending. We have been honest enough to tell the Australian people that until such time as we control our rate of inflation long term economic stability and prosperity will not arrive. We have been honest enough to tell the Australian people that there is a critical nexus between unemployment and inflation, and that there is a critical nexus between the unwillingness of people in Australia to invest and the high rate of inflation. We have brought government spending under control. We have reduced the unbridled growth of the Federal Public Service. We have introduced in 6 months full personal tax indexation. The undertaking was to do it in the lifetime of a parliament, yet we did it in 6 months. 
We have introduced the most significant social reform in Australia since the end of the Second World War. What did the Labor Opposition say when we introduced the family allowances scheme? It said nothing, because it was embarrassed. It knew very well that as a party it had constantly championed itself as being the representative of the underprivileged and the less fortunate. It knew very well that the family allowances scheme was a reform that it should have introduced when it was in government, but it did not do so. It knew very well that the record of the Liberal and National Country Parties in the area of social reform is a record that compares more than favourably with that of its own Party. We have introduced automatic adjustment of pensions in accordance with the increase in the consumer price index. No longer will pension increases be made a political football. No longer will pensioners have to wait to know whether their increase will be granted. These are significant social reforms. 
We have been honest enough to tell the Australian people that until such time as a responsible wages policy is developed in Australia we cannot have the economic recovery that we all so devoutly want. We have been honest enough to take our case to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. So far from our attitude on wages being a breach of an election undertaking, as the Leader of the Opposition charged, he, as well as every honourable member on this side of the House, knows that the indexation guidelines proclaimed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, permit any party which goes to the Commission to argue that the full effects of the consumer price index increase should not be carried forward. It was precisely in conformity with those guidelines that we acted as we did in respect of the national wage case in February of this year. That has been the policy that we have been pursuing ever since, and it is the policy that we will continue to pursue. 
This Government once again has resurrected profit making as a respectable Australian enterprise. This Government once again has faced the reality that unless companies make profits they cannot employ people, and unless people are employed naturally unemployment levels will go to ever-increasing heights. This Government has been honest enough to admit that the real revival of the Australian economy can be achieved only if individuals are given the opportunity and the incentive to work and to make profits. The Government has been honest enough to implement its policies with respect to the individual. We promised above all at the end of last year that we would create an Australia in which individuals once again played a leading role, that we would create an Australia in which private enterprise held pride of place, and that we would create an Australia in which the individual efforts and initiatives of ordinary Australian people would be the device by which economic recovery could be achieved. 
I believe that the record of the Fraser Government in its 9 months in office has been an outstanding one. It has been a record of reform. It has been a record of giving initiative to individual Australians. It has been a record of keeping promises. The Leader of the Opposition talks about election promises. He ought to be sensitive about election promises. Honourable members should remember that marvellous election promise he made at Blacktown in 1972. He said: 
Restore as a first priority genuine full employment without qualification, without hedging. 
What happened over the following 3 years? He presided over the worst unemployment in Australia since the great Depression. What else did he say in Blacktown in 1972? He made this promise: 
Build into the administration of the affairs of this nation machinery that will prevent any government from ever again cloaking our affairs under excessive and needless secrecy. 
Yes, indeed, there was the Executive Council minute. That was the promise that he made, but look at the performance. That man, that Party, now has the temerity to raise in this Parliament a matter of public importance challenging the performance of this Government in its 9 months in office, challenging a government which, notwithstanding the enormous economic difficulties facing Australia, notwithstanding the huge deficit we inherited from our predecessors, and notwithstanding the rate of inflation that we inherited from our predecessors, has still been able to introduce significant social reforms of the type that I have mentioned. 
It is a government which is concerned for the right of the individual and which has extended its responsibilities into the area of law reform. It is a government whose concern for the right of the individual prompted it to send to the Law Reform Commission a reference on the subject of privacy. It is a government which has proceeded with the introduction of the ombudsman legislation and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal legislation. These are all significant reforms. They illustrate that this is a reforming government and that it is not a government which, notwithstanding the present economic problems, is prepared to put reform to one side and say that we will worry about reform in a few years ' time when we have solved other problems. It is a government which is prepared to reform and to be progressive, notwithstanding our tremendous economic problems. 
Perhaps most importantly of all it is a government which has brought back a sense of perspective into our foreign affairs and defence policies. It is a government which has re-asserted proper relations between this country and the United States of America. It is a government led by a Prime Minister, ably supported by a Foreign Minister, which has developed and expanded our relations in South East Asia. It is a government which is sensitive to the defence needs of this country. It is a government which has given once again to the armed Services of this country their rightful place in the community. It is a government that no longer denigrates armed service in the defence of this country. It is a government which is building respect and regard throughout South East Asia. It is a government which I believe has brought back both perspective and responsibility to the conduct of our foreign relations and our defence. It is a government which above all is entitled to claim that it has more than discharged the mandate it was given in December of last year. It has been a reforming government, a government which has kept its promises and a government which I believe the Australian people will continue to trust in the measure that they demonstrated in December last year. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill 1976 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Act 1975 to exempt from duty exports of non-coking coal which conforms with the specifications indicated in clause 4 of the Bill, to reduce the export duty on high quality coking coal from $6 per tonne to $4.50 per tonne and to reduce the export duty on other coal from $2 per tonne to $1.50 per tonne. Honourable members will recall that these changes were foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech on 17 August 1976 and that following that speech I introduced Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Proposals (1976) to authorise collection of duty at the reduced rates with effect from 8 o'clock that evening. The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to enact those changes. 
As indicated in the Budget Speech, this action is the first step towards phasing out this levy which the Government regards as an entirely inappropriate form of tax in that its effects fall in a quite haphazard manner as marginal fields pay the same rate of duty as economically more profitable fields, or in some cases more. The existing levy has had undesirable effects both on existing producers and on potential developments. However, the reduction in duty rates proposed by this Bill and the Government's announced intention of phasing out the levy over 3 years will have the immediate effect of encouraging the healthy development of the industry. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Industries Assistance Commission on telecommunications equipment and dairy marketing arrangements. 
Due to the limited number available, reference copies of the latter report on dairy marketing arrangements have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliament Library. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I seek the leave of the House to make - 
Would you mind letting me finish my request to the House? 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission dated 30 June 1976 entitled  Batteries Part A: Storage Batteries (Accumulators). 
It is true that copies of the report were made available to the Press contemporaneously with a joint Press statement made by  Senator Cotton  and myself announcing the Government's decision. It is also true, as the honourable member has said, that the copies were made available to the Press in advance of tabling. I accept the comment implicit in the honourable gentleman's question that this should not occur in the future. I can assure him that it will not occur in the future. The honourable gentleman raised the quite legitimate point that when the Government makes decisions to reject Industries Assistance Commission reports and therefore there are no variations to current tariff levels, no immediate opportunity is available for parliamentary debate of those decisions. I will consider the honourable gentleman's request that some means be made available for decisions of the Government to reject IAC reports to be debated in the same manner as decisions to accept IAC reports. 
I am aware that allegations have been made, and the honourable gentleman has repeated them, about misleading advertisements by a particular health insurance fund. In answer to a question from the honourable member for Maribyrnong last week I made it clear that the Government was particularly keen to ensure that at present there should be full and accurate disclosure not only by the private health insurance funds but also by Medibank Private so that Australian health consumers could be put in a position of making proper choices as to where they wish to insure. There are provisions of the Trade Practices Act which are relevant to the question of misleading statements being made by any corporation coming within the operation of the Act. If people believe that the health fund which the honourable member nominated has made misleading advertisements, it is open to those people to refer their complaints to the Trade Practices Commissioner. 
I do not propose to give any ministerial directions or to make any requests to a particular fund. It is the responsibility of the Trade Practices Commission to administer the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. I do not intend to replace the statutory responsibility of the Commission with my ministerial decision. I make it quite clear that those people who are concerned about misleading advertisements, particularly in respect of this general area, should make their complaints to the Trade Practices Commission. It would greatly assist the proper consideration of this matter if, rather than funds being constantly named in the House under privilege, the people who have complaints to make were to make those complaints to the Trade Practices Commission, where they would be properly considered by staff qualified to do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Narcotic Drugs Act 1967 to transfer responsibility for the regulation of the manufacture and wholesale distribution of narcotic drugs from the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to the Department of Health. The Narcotic Drugs Act controls the licit manufacture of narcotic drugs, provides for security of manufacture and also for control over narcotic drugs when in transit through .Australia to another country. This transfer of responsibilities is being made because the Department of Health with its computer facility to monitor licit transactions in narcotics together with various inspection, labelling and quality controls is well placed to administer controls over the licit trade. Import and manufacturing quotas are also based on legitimate medical requirements and the Department of Health can best assess such requirements. 
Under the new arrangements the Department of Health will be responsible for: 
licensing and inspection of manufacturers, importers and exporters; 
authorising importation and exportation of drugs; 
the setting of import and manufacturing quotas; 
in conjunction with the appropriate State authorities, determining acreage for poppy cultivation; and 
preparation of health statistics and estimates for transmission to the International Narcotics Control Board. 
The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, of which the Australian Narcotics Bureau is a part, will continue to be responsible for: 
ensuring that Australia's obligations under the international drug conventions are met; 
action against the traffic in and possession of narcotics illicitly imported; 
also under the Customs Act, administrative control over licit importation and exportation; and 
security (under the Narcotic Drugs Act) of licit manufacture, handling and movement of drugs. 
Honourable members will be interested to know that the arrangements which have been in operation administratively for 2 years have rationalised and streamlined functions with some reduction in staff. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) One of the reasons for producing draft reports and discussing these reports at public hearings, was to allow witnesses to present any later information they had available and considered relevant. Commissioners are not compelled to accept specific pieces of information at their inquiries, but they normally try to obtain as much relevant information as is available up to the time at which they sign the reports. There must, however, be a point beyond which it is not practicable to receive further information. This is particularly so where the Commission's reports are subject to reporting deadlines. 
See answer to question ( 1 ). 
3 ) I am not aware of any such unhappiness. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Industries Assistance Commission report on shipbuilding dated 20 September 1976. 
-I do not know. I shall find out and let the honourable gentleman know. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No such legislation is proposed at present. 
-I thank the honourable member for Mitchell for asking that question. 
The Government is concerned about the level of unemployment among young people. The Government announced this morning a number of initiatives in this area that it believes will make a significant contribution towards the amelioration of the problems experienced by this section of the community. Of particular importance is the special initiative announced by the Government in respect of the residual group of unemployed school leavers- numbering some 12 000- carried over from those who left school at the end of last year. The purpose of this special initiative, which is an extension of the existing National Employment and Training scheme, is to give a special incentive to employers to take into employment people aged between IS and 19 years who left school during the preceding 12 months and who have been registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for not less than a total of 6 months during that period of 12 months. The subsidy rate which will apply to those employers for the period of 6 months which is the initial duration of the scheme, it being - 
-For the further information of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, details of this scheme were put on the record at a Press briefing immediately after the conclusion of our Party meeting this morning. They are also the subject of Press statements which will be released this afternoon. It is no wonder that the honourable member for Port Adelaide, who claims to be such a champion of the unfortunate in this community, should seek to interrupt a Minister giving details of a scheme that is designed to help the youth unemployed in Australia. 
Let the  Hansard  record show that on 2 occasions within 2 minutes front bench members of the Opposition tried to prevent a Minister from giving details of a scheme that is designed to help the unemployed of Australia. The main thrust of this scheme is to give special assistance to the group of young unemployed carried over from the 1975 school year. It is a scheme which has been introduced for a trial period of 6 months. Its operation will be closely monitored during that period and will be the subject of review at the end of January 1 977. 
As many honourable gentlemen will be aware, the Government has also announced a number of changes to the conditions applying to the existing NEAT scheme. These include significant increases of an average of 30 per cent in adult allowances. It is intended to relate the allowances in future to adult male award wages. The living away from home allowance will increase from $25 to $32.50. There will be an expansion of the part time training scheme. This will be of particular assistance to married women who wish to undertake training, particularly married women in the low income groups who have a desire to undertake training but would like to relate that desire to their family responsibilities. The Government has determined that the most effective way of doing this will be to expand the opportunities for part time training. All in all, I believe that the decisions announced by the Government are important initiatives. They will give incentive to employers to engage school leavers who have been out of work for a long time. The Government believes that they will make a significant contribution to ameliorating a special aspect of the unemployment problem. 
I move: Customs Tariff Proposals No. 2 1 ( 1 976 ). 
In so doing I apologise to the House for not being present a few moments ago and thank you, 

 Mr Speaker, and the House for its courtesy. The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Customs Tariff Proposals No. 21 (1976) give effect to the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on telecommunications equipment. The effect of the decision is that a rate of duty of 30 per cent will apply to imports of transmitting and broadcasting equipment and telephone and telegraph equipment. In making a decision to accept this rate of duty the Government has accepted the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. This rate is essentially a rationalisation of the duties currently applying. The new duties will operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
In replying to the Leader of the Opposition I shall confirm in very emphatic terms the strategy for economic recovery outlined in the Budget introduced by the Treasurer in August. The Government believes that the long term solution of Australia's unemployment problems is increased revival of economic activity, particularly in the private sector. We recognise that this is the solution in the long term to the unemployment situation. We recognise that there are within the unemployment problem certain special areas of disadvantage, such as those alluded to in the initiatives announced by the Government yesterday. We believe that they deserve special treatment. We are giving them special treatment. But in the long run there is no avoiding the fact that we will not have revived employment prospects in this country unless the private sector is able to make profits and unless there are incentives to invest. I am very pleased to mention to the House, as all honourable gentlemen would be aware, the announcement of the $600m investment project in Western Australia, which shows that investment is on the move again in Australia as a result of the conditions of confidence created by the responsible economic management that this Government has brought to the affairs of the country. 
-The Prime Minister indicated yesterday the timetable, in general terms, for the Government's consideration of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. The honourable gentleman will be aware that we await a submission from the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the subject. I understand, as a result of a discussion with the  President  of the ACTU yesterday, that that submission will in fact be delivered to the Government shortly. In the light of that submission and any further submission that the governments of New South Wales and South Australia care to make on the subject the Government will take decisions. I do not intend to speculate about those decisions or to anticipate those decisions in answer to questions similar to that asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Naturally the Government will take into account the social and employment consequences related to the shipbuilding industry. It was because of that that the Government included in the reference to the Industries Assistance Commission a specific injunction that the Commission in its report deal with the locational and employment consequences. All those matters will be taken into account when the Government makes its decision. 
I will investigate the complaints made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith about chemical factories allegedly having closed as a result of dumping. He mentioned the period of the last 6 months. The new Brussels definition has been in operation only since 1 July. So it is not immediately apparent from the honourable gentleman's allegations that the legislation and the new definition are responsible. The Government is concerned and made it clear at the time the new valuation system was introduced that there should be no effects upon existing protection arrangements so far as Australian industry is concerned. I understand the concern of the honourable gentleman in this matter. I will have it investigated. I will let him know the results of my investigations and further advise the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to extend the operation of the nitrogenous fetilisers subsidy scheme for a further year until 31 December 1977, but at a rate of subsidy reduced from $78.74 per tonne of nitrogen content to $60 per tonne of such content. Honourable members will recall that this measure was foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech on 1 7 August 1 976. 
The Government has considered the report of the Industries Assistance Commission which recommended the phasing out of the subsidy over 3 years and agrees in principle that the subsidy should be phased out. As a first step in this direction the Bill proposes that from 1 January 1977 to 31 December 1977 subsidy will be payable at the reduced rate I have mentioned in respect of nitrogenous fertilisers of local production which are sold for use in Australia as fertilisers and also in respect of imported nitrogenous fertilisers which, during that calendar year, are either so used by the importer or are sold by the importer for such use in Australia. The level of subsidy to apply after 31 December 1977 will be considered by the Government in the light of economic circumstances prevailing nearer to that time. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No action is currently being taken by my Department as no complaint has been received from the Australian industry demonstrating that it is being injured by imports at allegedly dumped prices. 
My Department has many routine administrative responsibilities regarding cheese imports, including valuation  for duty,  tariff classification, rate of duty (for example, are the goods eligible for New Zealand preference), the proper marking of goods and quarantine restrictions. 
Dumping complaints and by-law applications are dealt with by my Department 
Any proposal to change rates of duty or prohibitions or restrictions on imports may be referred by the Minister to the Industries Assistance Commission, except where Government policy in relation to trade agreements are being implemented. Questions which arise on dumping, by-law, or on other matters of principle affecting the tariff may also be referred to the Commission. 
If urgent action on protection from imports appeared to be necessary the Temporary Assistance Authority would be requested to inquire into the matter and report. 
The Minister is advised on references to and reports by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority by the Standing Committee on Industries Assistance which is chaired by the Department; other standing members are the relevant industry Department, Treasury, Overseas Trade, and Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
The industry itself may choose whether it seeks assistance through the anti-dumping legislation or alternatively seeks a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
If the industry believes that it is being injured by allegedly dumped imports and it can substantiate a prima facie case, my Department would initiate enquiries under the antidumping legislation. 
If, following the departmental enquiries, it is found that no dumping is occurring, but the industry still claims it is being injured, then it would have to substantiate a case for possible reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
If the industry is uncertain as to which course of action it should take my Department would provide advice. The answer to question (2) supplies more detail on references to the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
No, unless the Minister receives an appeal against his decision to impose dumping duty requesting the matter be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission for inquiry and report in accordance with Section IS of the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act 1975. 
-I do not know whether the statement contained in the first part of the honourable member's question is correct. I think he will appreciate that the Trade Practices Commission is a statutory body. Within the charter laid down by the Trade Practices Act the Commission acts independently of the Government It has not been nor will it be my practice to superimpose personal views in those matters where it is properly the function of the Commission to make decisions. The question of the compliance by all health insurance funds, both public and private, with the provisions of the Trade Practices Act has been raised in the House before. I have made clear the attitude of the Government We hope that the Act is complied with. I think it would be inappropriate for me to make any other comment in relation to the matter the honourable member raised in the interests of a proper handling of that matter by the Commission. 
-I will take on board the very constructive suggestion of the honourable member for Denison. I will discuss it with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations when he returns on Thursday. I think it is a sensible suggestion and State governments might also consider a suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales that State governments give payroll tax concessions to those employers who join the scheme. 
-The figures released by the Bureau of Statistics were for a quarterly period. It is true that they contain an element for seasonal adjustment. It is also true the the ingredients of the formula used by the Bureau were different in kind from those of the formula previously used for the monthly releases by the Commonwealth Employment Service. The question of the future use of seasonally adjusted figures in monthly releases by the Commonwealth Employment Service continues under study by the Department and by the Minister. The request of the honourable member for Adelaide will be referred by me to the Minister when he returns. 
I have seen some reference to the statements made by  Mr Carey.  While I agree that some losses in respect of company failures during the period the honourable gentleman mentioned can be attributed to white collar crime, I think a great number of the losses can also be attributed to the poor economic policies of our predecessors in office. As to the specific question raised by the honourable gentleman, when the Commonwealth reaches agreement with the States in respect of a co-operative scheme for regulation of the securities market and companies generally, I will be happy to look at suggestions for amendments to the law. The suggestion made by the honourable gentleman is not without difficulty. Within the normal company laws there are already some provisions for recourse to company directors' personal assets in certain circumstances. 
-I am not unaware of the device which is used, but I would point out to the honourable gentleman that a number of provisions exist at the moment in the companies legislation of the various States which provide some recourse against recalcitrant directors. Nonetheless, I will take into account what the honourable gentleman has said and study it at the appropriate time. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Prices Justification Act 1973, 1 present the annual report of the Prices Justification Tribunal for the year ended 30 June 1976. Due to the limited numbers available at this time reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. A normal distribution of the report will be made as soon as copies become available. 
One could be forgiven for not knowing, until the very late stage in the address of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  precisely what argument he was about today. He started off criticising the Government for what he alleged to be deceit prior to the general election. He said that in effect the Government's standard stood indicted because we had pursued policies in the wages and prices area which we had totally disguised prior to the general election. He said that we had pursued policies which will provoke industrial unrest and industrial confrontation and that in so doing we had broken undertakings that were given prior to the election. Then towards the end of his address, he castigated the Government for what he said was its policy as promised before the election of dismantling the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I think today we have heard from the honourable member for Port Adelaide an extremely illprepared and rhetorical 1930s attack on people of our political persuasion. I thought that we had reached a stage where we might have had in this Parliament a rational discussion on the impact of wage increases on economic conditions in Australia. I would have thought that the honourable member for Port Adelaide would have recognised, as indeed did his own Leader, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in November of 1974, that unless companies make profits they cannot employ people and that unless companies make profits, there is no incentive to reinvest. For a few months I thought we had the chance of inducing in this country some kind of bipartisan support for the concept that there is no economic revival in our type of economy unless there is a revival of the private sector- a concept, incidentally, which has been endorsed as recently as last week by none other than the leader of a socialist government in the United Kingdom. 
The honourable member talks about the wages policy of this Government. He ought to look at the wages policy of the United Kingdom Government. He ought to look at a situation in the United Kingdom where the Government has secured the support of the Trade Union Congress in that country for a level of wage increases which most people would have believed several years ago would have been quite impossible in the context of the industrial relations of that country. But what has been recognised in the United Kingdom and what I believe is recognised by the great majority of Australian people is simply this: There is a nexus between wage increases and company profitability. The real decline in the profitability of companies in Australia during the period that the Whitlam Government was in office and the real decline in employment that occurred during that period were in no small measure due to the unrestrained wage increases that occurred during that period. 
I do not allege, nor has anybody on this side of the House ever alleged since we have been in office, that all of the economic ills of that 3 year period could be heaped upon wage increases. I think we ought to make a fair and sober comparison of the escalation of wage rates in Australia during that period with increases which occurred in comparable countries. I say to the honourable member: 'Do not compare us with Korea; let us be compared with countries with which it is proper to make comparisons'. Let the honourable member for Port Adelaide look at the statistics for increases in male wages in the manufacturing area in Australia in 1974. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development figures show that in Australia the average increase was somewhere in the order of 36 per cent against an OECD average of 15 per cent The next worst country in that scale of comparison was Spain at 29 per cent. Yet there are still people on the Labor side of politics in Australia who say that there is absolutely no connection whatever between wage increases and economic recovery and between wage increases, investment and unemployment. 
The fact of the matter is very simple. This Government, from the time it took office, never sought to hide its belief that there was a critical nexus between wage increases, investment and unemployment. It is a simple economic fact. It is not union bashing; it is not provocative industrial relations; it is a simple fact of economic life. It is a view which has won wider acceptance amongst responsible elements of the trade union movement than the honourable member for Port Adelaide wants to admit. Not only the Government, its representatives and its spokesmen have expressed support for something less than full wage indexation. In fact conspicuous trade union leaders in Australia, people who are active members of the Labor Party and people who have been leading spokesmen for the Labor Party have acknowledged in recent months the sanity and the virtue of some system of plateau indexation. In other words, they have not taken the provocative, 1930s, hard line attitude that has been taken by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I suggest to the honourable member that in some of the language he has used today he is a little out of step with what some of the people in his own ranks are saying. He is not only out of step with what they are saying, but he is also out of step with economic reality in Australia at the present time. We believe that unless the community recognises that there is this critical nexus between wage levels, unemployment and investment, then we are not going to have a revival of confidence in this country and we are not going to have the economic revival that I believe is the wish and the aspiration of all members of this House. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide of course was selective in the things he said about the wages policy of the Government. He did not mention tax indexation. He finds that uncomfortable. He finds it uncomfortable that prior to the last general election, tax indexation was adopted as a policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He finds it uncomfortable that it was not a Labor Government that introduced tax indexation. No, it was a Liberal-National Country Party Government. He finds it uncomfortable that the most dramatic reform in the taxation area introduced by any government in this country since the end of the Second World War was introduced by the Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
-He must be against it; he did not mention it. So, he is not only uncomfortable about that, but he is also uncomfrotable about the fact that we have introduced a family allowance scheme- a scheme which any honest, objective person would agree is of more direct benefit to the lower income earners in our community than to the higher income earners. He is also rather embarrassed about that. He knows, as well as every Austraiian knows, that that is a social reform of first magnitude; it is a social reform introduced, not by the Australian Labor Party when it was in office, but by the LiberalNational Country Party Government during its present term of office. So it is not surprising that the honourable member for Port Adelaide, in his gloomy call for industrial unrest, was a little embarrassed and therefore a little selective about the things that he said. One might be forgiven for giving some credence to what he said if he could point to a record of industrial tranquillity and industrial peace during the period that his party was in office- the period in which presumably the policies which he advocates we should now pursue were pursued by his colleagues. Yet the story is quite different. It is a matter of historical record that during the period 1972 to 1975 unemployment in Australia escalated to levels that we had not known since the Great Depression. It is also a matter of historical record that despite the so-called enlightened wages policies pursued by the previous Government when it was in office, we had a period of record unrest. When one looks at the record of the previous Government in these areas one finds that the policies which honourable members opposite so lovingly call into contrast with our policies today were not productive of the type of industrial harmony that they should have the House believe existed at that time. 
The Government has decided to make some changes to the Prices Justification Tribunal, and I am very glad to be able at long last to say something in this House about those changes. It is very good that at long last the Opposition has deigned to concede that this is a matter which is fit for discussion in this Parliament. On the last occasion when the Government sought to say something about the changes it is making to the Prices Justification Tribunal the Opposition disrupted the proceedings of this House for a period of 4 hours to prevent that discussion from taking place. As I say, we have decided to make some changes to the Prices Justification Tribunal. The honourable member for Port Adelaide would have us believe- I think all honourable members should listen carefully to this because it is a classic piece of distortion- that the changes to the Prices Justification Act foreshadowed by the Government have drawn the criticism of the Tribunal. He implied that in the concluding remarks of his speech. I should like to draw to the attention of the House the letter addressed to me by the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is dated 1 6 September 1 976 and it is set out in the beginning of the annual report of the Tribunal. The  Chairman  in that letter said to me: 
Although a statement was tabled by you today in the House of Representatives- 
That is, the day on which the report was transmitted to me- regarding the future of the Tribunal it has been decided not to revise the Report in the light of the statement as it was not made during the period under review in the Report. 
In other words, the  Chairman  of the Tribunal has said very clearly: 'We have not in our annual report considered the changes that you have announced'. Yet the honourable member for Port Adelaide, by some sleight of tongue, would have this House believe that the Prices Justification Tribunal and its  Chairman  were criticising or calling into question the changes that are to be made. It was a piece of transparent deceit of which I think all honourable members ought to be made aware. 
The Government makes no apology for the wages policy that it is pursuing. It is not pursuing a policy which is designed to bring about a confrontation in the industrial area. I think it is irresponsible of any member of this House to talk glibly about industrial unrest, about industrial confrontation and about the greatest confrontation that we have seen in many years. I think that the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide in this regard were irresponsible. I think that it behoves anybody in this House when dealing with the question of industrial relations to speak with some degree of restraint and with some understanding of the fact that the question of industrial relations in this country is a very difficult one. Industrial relations issues are not always black and white. Right is not always completely on one side and wrong on the other side, and I think the honourable member for Port Adelaide, more than most people, ought to have known that. He has not done the cause of engaging in a rational discussion of industrial relations in this country any service today by his prophecies of gloom. We do not believe that our wages policies will bring about the results that he has foretold. We believe that they are responsible policies and are tailored to the economic needs of Australia at present. We believe that they are day by day winning greater support and recognition by a larger number of the Australian people. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report, dated 25 August 1976, of the Temporary Assistance Authority on paper. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on crude oil pricing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (e) The requested information is set out in the table below. 
It is not possible to accurately estimate the cost to the Government of past public hearings. A system introduced by the Commission on 1 July 1 976 will allow public hearings to be costed in future. 
The private groups attending IAC hearings are listed in the Appendices of the individual inquiry report. The cost of the hearings to private groups is not known. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
(1)- 
The report of the Royal Commission, that is, the fourth report, was tabled in this House I think back in May. As yet no decision has been taken on the recommendations contained in that report. I propose to table the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on crude oil pricing immediately after question time. Because some of the matters canvassed in that report traverse ground similar to that covered by matters canvassed by the report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum, in relation to both pricing and practices, the Government will be looking at them in conjunction- it is appropriate that they be looked at in conjunctionwith some of the recommendations made by the Government's committee of inquiry into the Trade Practices Act, which does have an impact on practices pursued in the marketing of petroleum in Australia. 
It is difficult for me to quantify exactly the impact of the payroll tax concession to which the honourable gentleman alluded both today and yesterday. I shall endeavour to have that done and provide him with the result. The question of whether or not this matter should be raised with the State Labour Ministers is, I think, one on which my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations would have a view, and I shall refer the request to him when he returns to Australia tomorrow. 
-The best protection of which I think I can inform the House is the experience gained with the operation of the National Employment and Training scheme prior to the introduction of the further benefits announced a couple of weeks ago. So far there has not come to the attention of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, or of the Government so far as I am aware, any evidence that employers have taken advantage of the benefits provided under that scheme to discharge longstanding or permanent employees and replace them with young persons in respect of whom the benefit can be claimed. If the honourable gentleman bears in mind that the new initiative is different to the extent that the monetary amount is larger than the monetary subsidy provided under the normal NEAT conditions but in other respects is only an extension of the existing NEAT scheme, I think he will agree that it is fair to draw on the experience of the ordinary NEAT scheme in claiming that employers do not take and have not taken unfair advantage of the scheme. I believe that the response of employers to the NEAT scheme has been an extremely sensible and responsible one. I do not believe that they have abused the system. There is no evidence that they have abused the system. I think that to suggest that the system will be abused is perhaps irresponsible speculation. 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, 1 present the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission for the year 1975-76, together with a statement outlining the action taken during the year 1975-76 on reports made to the Minister. 
I share the concern of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  about the level of youth unemployment in Australia at the present time. I also acknowledge to be a fact, as he stated, that this is not a problem which has suddenly come upon us. Indeed, my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  when speaking in the House on a similar matter of public importance raised by the Opposition, pointed out that many of the problems in terms of the high level of youth unemployment experienced in Australia find their genesis in changes and happenings which occurred in Australia in the 1950s and 1960s. Of course the Government regards youth unemployment as a particularly serious problem. It does have serious social consequences. The Government acknowledges that. We also make it very clear that it is our belief that a long-term solution to the high level of youth unemployment in Australia is inseparable from a long-term solution to the general level of unemployment. 
I do not think any serious analysis of the problems of employment in Australia could gainsay the fact that until such time as there is a greater revival in the private sector, to which the Government's economic strategy is directed, we are not going to have the reduction in levels of unemployment for which I am sure honourable members on both sides of this House would look. I was therefore pleased that the honourable member for Gellibrand acknowledged that the problem really is a problem of jobs. Of course it is a problem of jobs. It is a problem of generating jobs, of creating jobs, and the Government believes that the most effective way of creating and generating jobs in Australia is to get the private sector of our economy moving. We reject the proposition that a government can spend its way out of unemployment. We have 3 years immediately behind us which demonstrated that governments cannot spend their way out of unemployment. 
It is therefore of some concern to hear the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations castigate the Government for what he says is its inactivity in respect of this problem, and then advance no seriously constructive suggestion as to what alternative measures might be taken to cater specifically for the problem of the high level of youth unemployed amongst the general unemployed. The only thing that the honourable member could offer by way of a constructive alternative to the policies being pursued by the Government was to call in effect for the reintroduction of some of the schemes that his Government- the Labor Administration between 1972 and 1975- had in train. The honourable member knows as well as every member on this side of the House that those schemes did not solve the unemployment problem. He knows, as everybody here knows, that when Labor assumed office in 1972 the level of unemployment in Australia was 135 000 and it had soared to 328 000 when Labor went out of office in December 1975. The honourable member knows also that the level of youth unemployed during the same period escalated from 80 000 in December 1972 to 152 000 in December 1975. Those are unassailable facts. It is also an unassailable fact that the response of the Labor Party when it was in Government to the problem of unemployment proved ineffective. 
The distressing thing is that, despite the experience of those 3 ineffective years, nothing new has come out of the Labor Party in relation to coping with the problem of unemployment. It refuses to accept what has now been accepted even in the United Kingdom under a Labor Government- that until such time as there is a sustained revival of private sector activity there will be no long-term solution to economic problems. The Labor Party has refused to accept what even  Mr Callaghan  's Government in the United Kingdom has accepted- that the path to economic recovery does not lie in a government endeavouring to spend its way out of difficulty but lies in the sort of strategy which is now being undertaken by the present Government in Australia. 
Of course the Government recognises, as I am pleased to say the Opposition recognises today, that the problems of unemployment cannot be solved overnight. In particular, the problems of youth unemployment cannot be solved overnight. They can be solved only over a longer period. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech, this Government yields to nobody in its concern for the unemployed of Australia. We will yield to nobody in our special concern for that section of the unemployed of Australia described as the youth unemployed. It is precisely because we have identified amongst the general unemployed in Australia at this time a particular problem being experienced by some 12 000 young people who left school in 1975 and who have not been able to obtain stable employment since that the most recent initiative announced by the Government in this area was introduced. All that the honourable member for Gellibrand can say in respect of that initiative is not that it was a bad initiative, not that we were not on the right track but that is was a good initiative; he said, however, that we should have taken it further. In other words, the honourable member for Gellibrand had to concede that, given a special problem so far as the youth unemployed were concerned, the sort of initiative that we have introduced is on the right track. 
I am grateful that the honourable member for Gellibrand acknowledges that we are on the right track on this occasion and that the only change he would make to our initiative is not to replace it with another one or do things in a completely different fashion. What he suggests is that we should increase the subsidy, liberalise the terms and conditions and change it in a few other minor ways. In other words, what he is advocating is a bigger and better version of what we announced a couple of weeks ago. I am grateful for this bipartisan support for the inititative undertaken by the Government. I am grateful that the Opposition has recognised that this is a well tuned response to the problem of youth unemployed. The honourable gentleman therefore must go on record in this debate as having endorsed in general terms the direction in which the Government is going with respect to the unemployment problems of the young. The scheme has been introduced as part of the overall national employment and training scheme which has now been in operation in Australia for some time. It will be monitored carefully over the initial period of 6 months of its operations. Its operations will be reviewed at the end of January 1977 and decisions will then be taken by the Government regarding the future scope of the scheme in the light of the experience of its operations. It is tailored specifically to cater for that group of approximately 12 000 young people who left school last year and who have not been able to obtain stable employment since leaving school. It is designed specifically to cater for the people in that category provided their age falls between 15 years and 19 years and provided they are able to demonstrate according to quite liberal criteria that they have not been able to obtain the requisite amount of stable employment over the period in question . 
The level of subsidy being paid is significantly higher than the level of subsidy currently available under the NEAT scheme. I believe that this scheme will receive a generous response from the employers of Australia. I understand from information given to me by a number of honourable members from this side of the House that in a number of the States considerable interest has been generated already in the operation of the scheme. Undoubtedly the light of experience will demonstrate that some changes to the scheme may be necessary after its initial period of operation. I and the Government do not rule out in any way the possibility that after its first 6 months of operation some changes will be made if it is decided to continue the scheme. We do not regard this as being the end of the unemployment problem and as the only answer to it so far as the young are concerned. We do not in any sense regard it as the be-all and end-all in solving the unemployment problem. But what we do regard the scheme as being, and what is significant about it- the House should take note of this- is that it has been tailored specifically to cater for that group of people in the community which presumably is the subject matter of the Opposition's motion to discuss a matter of public importance. To that extent, the Government is extremely pleased that the Opposition has raised this matter of public importance today. It provides an opportunity to speak regarding the initiative of the Government in this area. 
As the honourable member for Gellibrand rightly pointed out, there have been structural changes in the Australian economy which have produced a situation in which the level of unemployment amongst the under 20-year-olds is higher than the general level of unemployment. I think he would agree with me when I say that that situation is not unique to Australia. It is the experience of most urbanised societies around the world. I think he would agree with me also that the concentration of unemployment among this group is nowhere near as bad in Australia as it is in other countries with which it is fair to make a comparison. I think that the honourable member would agree with me also- indeed, the facts indicate that he may have no alternative than to agree with me- that although it must be acknowledged that structural changes in industry affecting employment have produced this situation and those changes have occurred obviously over a fairly lengthy period of time, it is nonetheless an undeniable fact that there was an extremely sharp acceleration of those factors between the years 1972 and 1975. 
Whilst I would be the first to admit that not all of the unemployment problems being experienced at the present time are due to the policies pursued between 1972 and 1975 and that some of the difficulties of the young unemployed at the present time are due to structural changes of which the honourable member spoke, undeniably the evidence is that if there was a problem it was aggravated massively during the period from 1972 to 1975. Until the policies of the present Government which represent a reverse of the economic policies pursued by our predecessors have been given an opportunity to work, we will not see the fruits of that reversal. This Government has reversed the economic direction of this country. It has rejected the policies pursued by the previous Government. It makes absolutely no apology whatever for reversing the emphasis placed by the previous Government on the public sector as opposed to the private sector. It makes no apology for saying that until there is a revival in the private sector of the Australian economy there will not be sustained economic recovery in Australia. 
This Government makes no apology for saying that a government cannot spend its way out of economic difficulty or that a government cannot spend its way out of unemployment. It makes no apology for saying that the best illustration this country has of the absolute incapacity of a government to spend its way out of unemployment difficulties is the 3 sorry years between December 1972 and December 1975. Those 3 sorry years saw our unemployment soar from a level of 135 000 people to a post-depression record of 328 000 people. That is the proof perfect that no government with the type of economy Australia has or is ever likely to have can spend its way out of economic difficulties. 
In the limited time available it will not be possible for me to canvass all the remarks made by those who contributed to the debate. I thank speakers on both sides of the chamber for contributing to the debate on the estimates for my own Department and also the Department of Industry and Commerce. At the outset I should like to take this opportunity- as I think it is an appropriate time for any Minister to take such an opportunity- to record my own personal appreciation of the work, the endeavour and the ability of the officers of my own Department in respect of the period that we have been associated since I became the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in December last year. My Department was formed out of elements of 4 former departments. I have at all times received the greatest possible co-operation and assistance from officers of my Department. I quite unqualifiedly record my appreciation of the work that they have done. 
In particular, I should like to record my appreciation of the considerable service, assistance and advice rendered to me by the former Secretary of my Department who has recently been promoted to the secretaryship of another department within the Government. In my short acquaintance with  Mr Carmody  I found him to be a public servant of the highest order, a person who gave frank and fearless advice and a person who certainly in my experience served the Government extremely well. I should also like to extend my gratitude beyond the Department proper to those persons within the 3 statutory commissions which lie within my responsibility, and in particular to the chairmen of those commissions, namely,  Mr Bannerman, Mr McKinnon  and  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Williams of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
A number of specific issues have been raised. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  is concerned about the operations of the Temporary Assistance Authority. I can inform the honourable member that the Government has under consideration at present possible changes to the operations of the Temporary Assistance Authority. The Government believes, as does the honourable member for Mallee, that if an emergency assistance procedure is to be effective the Authority must be capable of acting quickly in an emergency. For that reason and also for a number of other reasons the whole question of the operations of the Temporary Assistance Authority is under review. The Government does not in any way retreat from the statement contained in its policy on manufacturing industry and industrial development to the effect that we would maintain effective temporary procedures. 
The honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  is concerned, as I think all honourable members are, about the drug problem in Australia. It will be no surprise to the Committee for me to say that the Government has under consideration at present certain recommendations about making a significant increase in the penalties for trafficking in what are commonly called the hard drugs. I expect that the Government will be in a position to announce a decision on this matter soon. It is a matter of pleasure to note that at the meeting in Melbourne last Friday of a variety of State and Commonwealth Ministers from both sides of politics there was almost total unanimity of opinion regarding this problem. There was certainly no difference of opinion on Party lines. There was a total desire on the part of the State governments, both Labor and non-Labor, to cooperate as best they thought fit in introducing more effective legislation concerning this problem. Although my acquaintance with CommonwealthState ministerial meetings is extremely limited, I must say that I found this meeting, ohe of my early experiences in this area, a very welcome exercise in co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States and between governments of different persuasions to overcome what is to all of us an acknowledged social evil. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred to the recommendation of the Trade Practices Review Committee to abolish section 49 of the Trade Practices Act which deals with price discrimination. Section 49 of the Trade Practices Act is a very difficult issue. The section is regarded by many people as being one of the bulwarks in the Act so far as small business is concerned. Its sister provision in the United States anti-trust legislation, namely the Robinson Patman Act, is certainly regarded in the United States as being one of the important legislative protections for small business. But unfortunately the experience in both the United States and Australia has been that so far from these provisions necessarily acting to protect small business in the way that many people thought they should, certainly there is some evidence to suggest that on occasions they have acted contrary to the interests of small business. 
The Government has not made any decisions on that recommendation or on any other recommendation on the Swanson committee of review into the Trade Practices Act. It is my hope that some recommendations will be before the Government very shortly and that some legislation flowing out of those recommendations will be introduced into this chamber during the current session. I can assure the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that the argument that he put in respect of section 49 of the Trade Practices Act will be carefully considered. It was a fairly courageous recommendation of the committee that that section be abolished. I think there was a lot of merit in the argument that the committee put. Certainly the matter has not been the subject of a final decision. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also is concerned about the operation of the Bankruptcy Act. I think he will recall that earlier this year at my request the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  referred to the Law Reform Commission a consideration of those provisions of the Bankruptcy Act which might be thought to operate unduly harshly on consumer debtors. It is hoped that out of that reference to the Law 
Reform Commission a more effective and sensitive Bankruptcy Act, particularly so far as small consumer debtors are concerned, will emerge. Quite apart from that, there is a general study of the operation of the Bankruptcy Act going on at present, and I think it is fair to say that a number of possible recommendations will emerge from that study. I agree with the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, without in any sense agreeing with the particular matters which he used as an example to express his concern about the Bankruptcy Act- I think it was perhaps unfortunate that he used those matters- that legislation of this nature ought to be kept under very regular review. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  raised the question of off-shore manufacturing. It is an unfortunate fact of economic life in Australia that because of competitive cost disadvantage, Australian industry is increasingly going off-shore. We would be absolutely blinkered if we did not recognise that this is happening because of the cost escalation that has occurred so far as operating industries in Australia are concerned. That is a simple, undeniable fact. For anybody to suggest that the Government should intervene to prevent companies from going off-shore is to miss the point completely. The reason why companies in Australia are going off-shore is that we are becoming increasingly uncompetitive. I know that the honourable member for Burke will not appreciate my raising this point again, but nonetheless I will do so: The reason why Australian manufacturing industry became so uncompetitive in those critical years of 1973 and 1974 was because of the colossal wage escalation that occurred during that period. It is a matter of statistical fact, it is a matter of record, that they were the contributing factors to the uncompetitiveness of Australian manufacturing industry. 
I thought that the conciliatory note struck by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  was extremely helpful to the debate. I share with him the very strong view that Australia needs a lasting and viable manufacturing sector. Those who believe that this country can live on imports so far as manufactured products are concerned are being very unrealistic. I think all of us ought to recognise that we need very much in Australia a strong and viable manufacturing industry, and that there needs to be co-operation between unions, government and management in working out policies for manufacturing industry. 
I wish that I had a bit more time available to reply to some of the other points that have been made. I should like to thank those honourable members, including the honourable member for Burke, who have contributed to the debate and to commend these estimates to the Committee. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While the Bankruptcy Act provides for each bankrupt to be examined on oath as to his conduct, trade dealings; property and affairs at a time appointed by the Registrar in Bankruptcy that is no statutory requirement as to the time in which a public examination must be held. 
The examination is conditional upon an investigation by the Official Receiver and report to the Registrar on the bankruptcy. That report is required to be lodged within 60 days of the bankruptcy or within such extended time as the Registrar may allow. 
Even in the ideal situation it is unlikely, having regard to the numbers of bankruptcies that a public examination could be held earlier than two months after bankruptcy. In practice a longer period invariably elapses and at the present time the average time in New South Wales between date of bankruptcy and date of public examination is about six months. 
The problem of delays in the hearing of public examinations is recognised and steps are being taken to overcome the problem. 
Research into Diabetes (Question No. 1070) 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) Yes. The release of the report was announced on 22 August 1976. (2)I have arranged for a copy of the report to be made available to the honourable member. 
Copies of the report have been distributed to the appropriate State and Commonwealth Government Departments, the management of those attractions surveyed in the study and other interested parties. In addition, the report has been made available to all Federal members in whose electorates the surveyed attractions are located, as well as to other members who have expressed particular interest in the findings of the report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the benefit-cost study of the Industries Assistance Commission of the national dairy herd improvement scheme. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on the Territory of Christmas Island for the period 1 July 1972 to 31 December 1975. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 22 ( 1976). 
The proposals are now being circulated to honourable members. The customs tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Customs TariffProposals No. 22 (1976) give effect to the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Temporary Assistance Authority in its report on paper. The effect of this decision is that tariff quotas will apply to imports of certain uncoated paper. A temporary additional duty of 15 per cent will apply to imports in excess of quota. 
The proposals also implement the Government's decision which was announced on 17 September to increase the preferential rate of duty applying to ceramic sanitary ware from 9 per cent to 32 per cent. The competitive position of the Philippines relative to the United Kingdom was seriously affected by the recent withdrawal of the developing countries preference on ceramic sanitary ware. The action now being taken is in accordance with the Government's policy of helping developing countries overcome any competitive disadvantage with imports from developed countries in the Australian market. A comprehensive summary of the changes which will operate from tomorrow is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Financial concessions and allowances are a matter for commercial negotiation between shipowner and shipbuilder and are not available in relation to specific ships. 
Japan is a signatory to the OECD 'Understanding on Export Credits for Ships' which states that 'for any contract relating to any new ship to be negotiated from 1 July 1974 onwards, Governments participating in this Understanding agree to abolish existing official facilities and to introduce no new official facilities and export credits for ships on terms which provide 
1 ) a maximum duration exceeding 7 years from delivery and repayment other than by equal instalments at regular intervals of normally six months and a maximum of 12 months; 
payment by delivery of less than 30 per cent of contract price; 
3 ) an interest rate of less than 8 per cent net of all charges 
The following information is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) I am currently discussing with the States proposals by this Government for a co-operative scheme between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to company law and the regulation of the securities industry. This scheme, if accepted, would achieve legislative uniformity throughout Australia and provide for the necessary degree of national regulation whilst at the same time preserving existing administrative structures at a State level. Until those discussions have been concluded it is neither appropriate nor possible to make detailed comments on the Government's legislative intentions in these areas. 
Submissions made by the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges to the Senate Select Committee inquiring into the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill demonstrated that the Exchanges had serious reservations about many aspects of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill which was introduced in 197S and which provided for the establishment of a Corporations and Exchange Commission. I have discussed with representatives of several Australian stock exchanges the Government's proposals for co-operative action in relation to company law and the regulation of the securities industry. These proposals would include the establishment by the Commonwealth of a National Corporations and Securities Commission. The Government's proposals have been publicly supported by the  Chairman  of the AASE and the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange. 
No representations requesting re-introduction of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975 have been brought to my attention. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on high alloy steels, dated 10 June 1976. 
I am not aware whether or not the number of inquiry forms to which the honourable gentleman refers has been sent. I shall make inquiries and inform the honourable member of the position. I am aware of the importance of this inquiry to the garment industry in Australia. At this stage, the Industries Assistance Commission report has yet to be presented. Naturally, the concerns that the honourable gentleman has in mind will be taken into account by the Government when it reaches a decision. 
On 23 September, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  addressed a question to me in relation to a number of chemical manufacturing plants which had allegedly ceased operation in Australia in the last few months due to opposition from dumped imports and the influences of Australia's new Customs Valuation System. At the time, I undertook to have the matter investigated and further advise the House as  follows: 
I am now informed that four chemical manufacturers have in fact recently ceased production of eight particular chemical commodities within their industrial ranges. However, each of the companies has advised that the decision to cease production in a particular area was an exercise of normal commercial judgement. Factors such as consumer preference, market shrinkage, the high cost of raw materials and wage escalation were said to be instrumental in the decisions. My Department did not receive a request for antidumping action to be taken in respect of any of the commodities concerned, nor was there evidence of any erosion of tariff protection due to adoption of the new valuation system which only came into effect on 1 July 1976. 
The honourable member also asked whether antidumping action could be taken if values under the Brussels Definition of Value were in excess of those in the country of origin. 
Anti-dumping action could be taken if the prices paid for goods by the Australian importer are less than the normal values in the country of exportation. Local industry would have every justification to seek anti-dumping action if material injury was being caused to the industry by such imports. 
At the time of introduction of the new valuation system which became operative on 1 July 1976, I announced that provision had been made for access to a special tribunal of the Industries Assistance Commission for industries which could demonstrate that their level of protection had been eroded as a result of the change in the valuation system. To date, no references have been made to the special tribunal. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Overseas Trade for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The whole legislative framework for consumer credit is currently under examination by a Commonwealth/State Working Party on Uniform Credit Laws and the question of legislation at a national level will be considered when the task of the Working Party has been completed. 
ABC Broadcasting Time: Government and Opposition  (Question No. 1083) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's policy gives high priority to the achievement of uniform credit laws throughout Australia. The whole legislative framework for consumer credit is currently under examination by a Commonwealth/State Working Party on Uniform Credit Laws and the question of legislation at a national level will be considered when the task of the Working Party has been completed. 
I am aware of certain discussions that have been going on in Brussels for some time between the member states of the European Economic Community relating to the removal of quantative restrictions between those member states in respect of sheep meat If those arrangements are in fact introduced they are not expected to have any immediate effect on Australia's exports of sheep meat to the United Kingdom. However, the possibility does exist that such arrangements could include a provision which might in the future be used to restrict the imports of sheep meat from Australia and other third country suppliers. Needless to say, the Government would be very concerned if this were to occur. The Department of Overseas Trade is very carefully monitoring the situation and has already made the EEC aware of our concern if those developments were to occur. 
I move: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although I do not see any conflict between the Trade Practices Act and the proposed uniform credit legislation any problems which may arise should be resolved through the Commonwealth/State Working Party which is currently examining uniform credit laws and on which Working Party officers of my Department serve. 
There is evidence, some of which was contained in the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, of differential pricing practices within the petroleum industry. This issue raises one of the more difficult situations where it is necessary to try to preserve some balance between the benefits that consumers derive from price flexibility and the need to have rational marketing practices, with a proper accommodation of the interests of small independent resellers who constitute a sizable number of small businessmen. The recommendations of the Royal Commission have been under consideration by the Government since the report was tabled in May of this year. An interdepartmental committee report on those recommendations has been completed and I hope to bring the matter before the Government in the very near future. 
-I am aware that in recent weeks there has been considerable public comment not only by leaders of industry associations but also by other persons, some wearing various hats, about the position of the Industries Assistance Commission. Let me make it very clear to the honourable gentleman that this Government is committed to retaining an independent body to give advice- and I stress the word 'advice'- to it on industry assistance matters. This position has been stated and reaffirmed over the past few months by the Prime Minister, myself and other Ministers with responsibility in the policy protection area. I do not believe that all of the economic problems attributed by some of these bodies to the IAC can in fact be laid at the door of that body. But what I think the honourable gentleman and all members of the House should recall is this: The most damaging action to manufacturing industry in the last 10 years was the 25 per cent tariff cut by the previous Government. That was undertaken prior to the establishment of the IAC. So the honourable member cannot blame the IAC for that. 
The Government regards the IAC as an important element in the advisory process on industry assistance. There will be occasions in the future when the Government will reject the recommendations of the IAC. Naturally, in considering reports from the IAC, the Government is very concerned about employment matters. It was our concern about employment matters that prompted us in April of this year to send certain reporting rules and guidelines to the IAC. We intend those reporting rules and guidelines to be meaningful. We intend that they be adhered to. We intend that the Commission's response to those guidelines be reflected in all reports issued by it, subsequent to the sending to it of those guidelines. 
This is a difficult area. It is an area that has been the subject of controversy in Australia for many years and is likely to continue to be so. But the Government believes that the purposes of industry and of a balanced approach to the economy will not be served by the elimination of an independent advisory body on assistance matters. The Government intends to retain the Commission to fulfil precisely that role- the role of an advisory body. 

 Mr W.H. NICHOLLS 
The question catches me very much off balance. I do not think that the problem to which the honourable gentleman refers can, on this occasion, be blamed upon the activities of the Industries Assistance Commission as has been the practice in respect of a lot of other things. The honourable gentleman's customary courtesy in these matters has not been apparent on this occasion and therefore I am unable to offer him the type of helpful response which I normally give when he asks questions on a subject which is very dear to his heart. 
Pursuant to section 3 14 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 1 present the annual report on the operations of that Act for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled  Bureau of Customs 1976: A Review of Activities. 
in reply- I thank honourable members who have contributed to this debate and the Opposition for the support that it has given this Bill. As has been acknowledged during the debate the basic purpose of this Bill is to give legislative effect to the decision already announced by the Government to alter the funding arrangements applicable to the export finance facilities of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation by transferring the source of funds from the Budget to the trading banks. This decision was taken by the Government as part of its overall effort to restrain the growth in public sector expenditure while at the same time returning to the private sector those functions which appropriately belong there. Adoption of the new arrangements followed detailed discussions with the trading banks; discussions which were both positive and constructive and they have led to a sizable growth in the level of funds available to support capital goods exports while at the same time achieving significant budget savings which will amount to some $20m during 1976-77. 
As one might expect, during the course of the debate there has been some reference to the problems which exporters in Australia face at present, particularly in the manufacturing sector, and quite properly there has been some reference by honourable members on both sides of the House to some of the difficulties under which manufacturing industry is operating in Australia at the present time. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who led the debate for the Opposition, suggested that there had been a downturn in exports of manufactured goods particularly of the metal variety. I inform the honourable gentleman and the House that I am advised that forecasts for 1976-77 suggest that there will be a 16 per cent increase in exports of manufactured goods from Australia despite the inflationary pressures which the honourable gentleman referred to and which this Government makes no apology for saying are a very difficult problem for manufacturing industry in Australia. The Government and I claim that this upturn is in part attributable to the policies which have been pursued by the Government since it took office. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  appeared to me to be putting the proposition that there was absolutely no point in the Government pursuing the policy it currently has on the wages front. He put the proposition to the House that the Government might as well give up on wage restraint in Australia. Whilst I, as have a great number of honourable members on this side of the House, have a great regard for the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, I inform the House that the Government does not intend to give up the fight for its wages policy. The Government in no way apologises for saying that the wage escalation which occurred in Australia during the past 4 years, whilst not being the only cause of the problems of manufacturing and many other industries in Australia, was a major cause of the problems that manufacturing industry experienced in 1973 and more so in 1974. The Government does not in any way retreat from the attitude that it has struck towards the problem of wage escalation in Australia at present. 
It is an undeniable fact that the cost disadvantage suffered by Australian manufacturing industry at present is the principal cause of the non-competitive nature of the Australian manufacturing industry when contrasted with the manufactured products of so many countries which are exporting to Australia. Whilst we are talking about an export finance facility Bill it is worth noting that root cause of many of the problems of manufacturing industry in Australia es in this enormous cost disadvantage. It is quite unrealistic of the Opposition to suggest that we might as well exclude from our consideration of the cost disadvantage of manufacturing industry in Australia the enormous contribution' to that disadvantage made by escalated wage claims and escalated wage settlements in recent years. 
Turning more specifically to some of the issues raised by honourable gentlemen who participated in the debate, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  sought an assurance from me that interest rates on EFIC finance under the new arrangements would not be greater than the interest rates that prevailed under the old arrangements. I inform the honourable member for Macarthur that it certainly is not the intention of the Government, nor does the Government believe that it will be a consequence of this legislation, that such an increase should occur. Naturally the rates applicable to the operations of EFIC will be market rates. EFIC is not in the business of giving more generous credit terms than are necessary in a normal commercial environment to gain business but it is not the intention of the Government that interest rates which will prevail under the new arrangements will be any greater than those which prevailed under the old arrangements. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  drew attention to the importance, as the whole debate on this Bill underlined, of encouraging as far as possible the export of manufactured products from all export industries in Australia. That is a need which the Government recognises and a practical gesture of that recognition is contained in this legislation. 
I remind the House that the type of facility provided by the EFIC legislation is not the only manner in which export incentives can be granted. There are other methods and other devices by which encouragement can be given to exporters and the recent Budget contained a number of incentives to industry, particularly rnining industry which has in recent years made a contribution to the export earnings of this country. It is therefore a little strange that while in this debate the Opposition expresses support for the measure contained in the Bill, something which the Government welcomes, and expresses its general support for incentives to exporters, when the concessions contained in the Budget for the rnining industry were announced they drew some very heavy criticism from the Opposition. It is an undeniable fact that the contribution made by the mining industry to our balance of payments and to our export performance in recent years has been very considerable. The concessions that were contained in the Budget were quite unambiguously designed to assist the mining industry because, amongst other things, it made a major contribution to the export earnings of this country. I believe that that fact should be mentioned in case there should be any belief on the part of honourable members that the only way in which one can assist actual exporters and potential exporters is through the payment of direct export related incentives such as those which have been under discussion during the debate on this Bill. 
The purpose of this legislation is to put into statute the decision of the Government to give to the private sector the facilities previously provided directly by the Government or the operations of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. The legislation and the decision of the Government have achieved 2 objectives. Firstly, the legislation and the Government's decision have returned to the private sector something which is more appropriately conducted by that sector. Secondly, it has achieved some significant Budget savings of the order of $20m. I thank honourable members who have supported the legislation and thank the House for the prospective unimpeded passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The subject of harsh and unconscionable transactions was covered in the report of the Trade Practices Act Review Committee which was published in August 1976. The Committee recommended that there be a civil prohibition on unconscionable conduct or practices in trade or commerce. 
The question of legislation to regulate harsh and unconscionable conduct and practices is at present the subject of discussions between the Commonwealth and State Governments. The views of the States will be taken into account when the Government is considering the recommendation of the Trade Practices Art Review Committee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has provided the following information on the value of import duty collected during each of the financial years 1971-72 to 1975-76 on sporting equipment: 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Temporary Assistance Authority for the year 1 975-76. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I am aware of the statement and have obtained a report on it from the Department. There is no known discrepancy between supplies paid for and those received in Australia. The Department has been attempting to reconcile invoices with detailed delivery documents but the complicated mass of paperwork involved has made this an almost impossible task. Recent interdepartmental discussions have opened up the prospect of an alternative means of reconciliation which would be much simpler but would still fully meet the requirements of the relevant Treasury Directions. Detailed investigation of this alternative approach has already begun. 
I seek leave to move the insertion of new clauses 5 and 6 together. They have been circulated in the name of my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street). 
I am aware that a lot of concern has been expressed, not only in Western Australia but also in such places as Tasmania and Newcastle about marketing practices in the petroleum industry. The House will be aware that the Government has under consideration at the moment the recommendations contained in the fourth report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum and Petroleum Products. We also have under consideration recommendations of the Trade Practices Review Committee which in some areas have relevance to this subject. 
For many years there existed in the Austraiian petroleum industry arrangements between oil companies and independent dealers whereby those dealers were tied to particular companies and in return for that guaranteed supply the companies tended to provide relatively long term leasing arrangements and also other financial incentives and help. As a result of a determination of the Trade Practices Commission which applied the existing trade practices legislation, those arrangements are no longer regarded in their entirety as being acceptable. One of the consequences of that determination has been to encourage the oil companies, for commercial reasons, to change some of their marketing practices. I think that, before one jumps to too many conclusions as to who is right and who is wrong in this area, it ought to be borne in mind that it is very difficult in an industry such as the petroleum industry to accommodate completely in the one stroke the interests of consumers, the interests of the small dealers and also the natural desire of large companies with heavy capital investment to secure their points of distribution. 
The activities of ACTU-Solo are, of course, relevant to the Government's consideration. I  should make it clear that the Government would not want a situation where price flexibility in the petroleum industry was eliminated. It is not in the interests of the consumer to eliminate price flexibility; it is in his interests that there be price flexibility. The Government is concerned also that independent dealers as a class should not be forced out of business. 
On behalf of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  I move: 
Omit proposed sub-section (3) and substitute the following proposed sub-section:  "(3) An organization that became registered before the date of commencement of this Act is allowed a period of 2 years after that date, or such longer period as the Industrial Registrar determines, within which to bring its rules into conformity with the requirements of paragraph (a) of subsection (1).'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to substitute another proposed new sub-section 133(3) for the existing proposed new sub-section 133(3 ) set out in the Bill. As it is set out in clause 4 of the Bill, proposed new sub-section 133(3) allows an organisation whose rules provide for election to a full-time office by a collegiate system other than a one-tier collegiate system, as defined, 2 years to alter its rules to provide for a one-tier system for that office. It does not cover the case of an organisation which has a collegiate system for part-time officers that does not apply with the definition of a collegiate electoral system and wishes to move to a collegiate system that complies with the definition or to a direct voting system. The effect of the proposed new subsection which is sought to be substituted is that organisations will have 2 years from the time of the Bill becoming law in which to alter its rules to comply with the new requirements. 
The purpose of this amendment is to improve the drafting of the Bill to provide for a tighter and more understandable clause which will make it quite clear that organisations will have 2 years from the time of the Bill becoming law in which to alter their rules to comply with the new requirements. Therefore, this is in the nature of a machinery measure and is an amendment that the Government hopes the Opposition will support. 
-I thank the House. I move: 
After clause 4, add the following new clauses: - "5. Section 158F of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section ( 1a). "6. Section 171d of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: - (7)Where- 
a scheme to be approved under this section will involve provision for an election for an office in the organisation concerned; and 
b ) the rules of the organisation in force, or purporting to be in force, provide, in respect of that office, for- 
a collegiate electoral system, or an electoral system which, although it is not a "collegiate electoral system" as defined in section 4, is of a similar nature; or 
a direct voting system, or a voting system which, although it is not a "direct voting system" as deined in section 4, is of a similar nature, the Court shall not, in proceedings under this section, where sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) applies, approve a scheme that provides for an election for that office otherwise than under a collegiate electoral system or, where sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) applies, approve a scheme that provides for an election for that office otherwise than under a direct voting system, or in either case a scheme that departs from the provisions of those rules to a greater extent than the Court is satisfied is necessary having regard to the requirements of this Act. '. ' '. 
The deletion of sub-section (  1A)  of section  158F  is consequential upon the provisions to allow restricted collegiate electoral systems. Sub-section  ( 1 A)  was inserted in the Act by amendments in  1973  to require direct elections. The sub-section recognised that amalgamations could be discouraged if the members of the minor union felt that their special interests would be submerged in the interests of the major union. To help overcome this problem it permitted the union resulting from the amalgamation to have a collegiate system for  3  years during which time the union was expected to move towards a system of direct voting by the appropriate section of the rank and file. In the interim the members of each of the former unions would be represented on the governing councils of the union through the collegiate system. The sub-section would serve no purpose under the arrangement for collegiate voting proposed by this Bill. Therefore the Government's proposal to delete sub-section  (lA)  of section  158F  is consequential upon the principal provisions contained in this amending Bill. 
I turn to proposed new clause  6.  This clause relates to section  17 ID  of the principal Act. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that a scheme approved by the Australian Industrial Court for the reconstitution of an invalidly constituted organisation will not unnecessarily alter the rules of the association and in particular the rules concerning elections. In effect the proposed sub-section requires the Court to maintain a collegiate election system where the organisation's rules so provide and a direct voting system where the rules provide for that. The scheme is not to depart from the provisions of the organisation's rules to a greater extent than the Court is satisfied is necessary having regard to the requirements of the Act. This amendment will apply to proceedings for the approval of schemes whether or not the proceedings commence before or after the Bill becomes law. 
I was in fact informed a few days ago that this move was in prospect. In anticipation of that, strong representations were made to the Japanese Administration, pointing out the great concern that would be felt in the beef industry in Australia if in fact this decision were made. I appreciate the concern of the right honourable gentleman. I cannot respond to the specific details of the impact of this decision on the Australian sales that he mentioned but I shall investigate that. I shall also discuss with my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs the request by the right honourable gentleman in his question that further representations be made. I want to make it very clear that the concern of the Australian Government on this issue has already been conveyed to the Japanese authorities. We are very concerned about it and the Government very much shares the concern of the right honourable gentleman about the impact of this action on the Australian beef industry. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1 967, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Representations have been made to the Government regarding various aspects of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its draft report on Footwear. 
and (4) Interested parties have recently had an opportunity to present their views on the draft report to the Commission at supplementary hearings. The Government will make its assessment of the employment and other economic implications for the Australian footwear industry when it considers the Commission's final report. 
Report of Australian Delegation to Thirtieth Session of the United Nations General Assembly  (Question No. 1312) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of the direct involvement by Commonwealth authorities and officers in the Queensland State Police operation at Cedar Bay on 29 August are contained in the replies to Senate Questions Nos 1105 and 1106 published in the Senate  Hansard  on 2 November 1 976. 
It is a fact that in the last Budget concessions were made quite deliberately to the mining industry. The Government believes that they were justified. The Government also believes that those concessions will have a be neficial effect on this most important element of  our export activities and makes no apology whatever for having made those financial concessions. The honourable gentleman will be aware that in July of this year the Government announced a policy regarding a co-operative approach between the Commonwealth and the States in respect of the regulation of the securities industry and a move towards greater uniformity in company legislation generally. I have already had one meeting with State Ministers responsible for corporate affairs. I am to have another meeting with those Ministers in Melbourne on 12 November, that is, on Friday week. I have said publicly on a number of occasions that the Government regards the Commonwealth as having a definite responsibility in this area. The Government regards it as necessary that the Commonwealth be involved in order that the level of investor protection and the degree of uniformity which are so essential in this area be achieved. 
The Government does not intend to turn its back on this area. Equally, the Government does not believe in the sledgehammer approach adopted by the previous Government when it was in office, an approach which denied any involvement by State administrations in the administration of legislation and the reform of the law and an approach which could have provoked a number of years of constitutional argument and conflict. This Government is committed to uniform legislation in this area. This Government is committed to an effective sytem of national administration. I want to make it quite clear to the honourable gentleman and to the House that as far as the Government is concerned there are 2 elements involved. There is the element of investor protection. There is also the element that any government legislation ought to be designed to facilitate the operation of the capital market in Australia and that regulations enacted should be such as not to hinder the operation of that capital market but rather to assist its performance. I can assure the honourable gentleman that this particular issue has an extremely high priority as far as my own portfolio is concerned and as far as the Government is concerned, and I intend to pursue the implementation of the Government's announced policy with the greatest degree of expedition. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for the question which demonstrates his consistent interest in the future of Australia's agricultural exports since he entered this House. The concept of agricultural attaches- if I can call them that- was contained in the 1975 preelection policy statement of the joint government parties. It remains part of Government policy to develop this concept progressively. While it is true that developments in this area have not been enormous, I indicate to the honourable gentleman that a number of appointments to trade commissioner posts which have an important agricultural element have been of people with an agricultural background. As an example, I instance the recent appointment to a trade commissioner post in the United Kingdom of a former officer of the Department of Primary Industry. Such appointments, while they might not be described specifically as appointments of agricultural attaches, will give a much needed emphasis to the agricultural considerations of our export performance. Naturally, as the honourable gentleman will appreciate, further developments in this area must be looked at in the light of overall budgetary considerations and within the general financial resources of the Trade Commissioner Service. I can assure the honourable gentleman that the Government remains very committed to the concept spelled out in its policy speech, has  made  practical gestures towards its implementation and will continue to do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 is to incorporate in the Customs Tariff Act 1966 changes to the tariff which have occurred since the last amending Bill was passed during the autumn sittings of the Parliament in May this year. The Bill, which contains 17 schedules, brings before honourable members for their consideration tariff changes made since the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1976. All changes concerned are incorporated in Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 7 to 22 (1976) which I have introduced into the Parliament at different times since then. In the main the changes give effect to decisions by the Government in respect of the following reports of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority: Aerospace Industry; Aluminium and Articles Thereof, etc.; Cellulose Acetate Flake; Commercial Motor Vehicles, Parts and Accessories; Filament, Fluorescent and Other Discharge Lamps; Hosiery; Knitted and Woven Apparel; Motor Vehicles- Import Restriction; Other Electronic Equipment; Paints, Varnishes and Lacquers; Precision Ground Steel Ball Bearings; Railway and Tramway Locomotives, Rolling Stock, etc.; Spectacle and Sunglass Frames, Sunglasses; Superphosphate Production; Telecommunication Equipment; Welding Consumables and Flux Cored Solder; Orange Juice; Paper; Sheets and Plates of Iron and Steel; and Thick Plywood. 
As honourable members will appreciate, the tariff changes involved cover a wide range of Australian industries and will no doubt afford honourable members with an opportunity to have a wide ranging debate on the issues raised by these changes when the debate on this legislation is resumed. The last 4 reports I named were those made by the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
The Bill also contains changes resulting from the biennial review of the system of tariff preferences for developing countries. In most cases rates of duty on goods qualifying for tariff preference have been reduced. However, certain imports have been excluded from tariff preference where imports from developing country suppliers are causing or threatening injury to local industry. Honourable members will recall that when the tariff proposals were introduced into the House I circulated a comprehensive summary in respect of each proposal which set out the nature of the change in duty rates and the origin of each change. I have had prepared a consolidation of those summaries and copies may be obtained from the Bills and Papers Office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
in reply- Very briefly, in reply to those who have contributed to the debate let me say that if ever a party disqualified itself from weeping tears of blood over the plight of people in the rural areas of Australia it is the Australian Labor Party. When the Labor Party was in office it demonstrated, both by its policies and subsequently by its electoral performance, how completely out of touch it was with the needs and requirements of Austraiian rural industries. I should make it clear, because some confusion has been demonstrated on this point during the debate tonight, that the Government has not accepted  in toto  the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission on this subject. In a report dated 5 September 1975, the Industries Assistance Commission recommended that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty should be phased out over a 3-year period, and that the first stage in the phasing out process should be a reduction from some $78 a tonne then prevailing to $60 a tonne for the year 1976. 
What the Government has done, and what is implemented by this measure as foreshadowed in the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  is an acceptance in principle of the recommendation regarding phasing out but a quite significant change so far as the manner of phasing out is concerned, the period involved and the amount of subsidy to be paid during the years of the phasing out. The Government has not indicated the period of the phasing out. All that has been done is an acceptance in principle. The Government has not applied the IAC recommendation to the effect that $60 a tonne should be paid during 1976. Rather, the rate prevailing at the time of the IAC report, namely, $78.74 a tonne, I think, will prevail in 1976 and the new rate of $60 will commence during 1977. 
I do not think that anybody who listened to this debate could dispute the essential thrust in the speech of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  regarding the plight of many people in the rural areas of Australia. It is easy on occasions, during debates on such matters in this House, for members of the Opposition to pour scorn on some of the contributions from people who represent rural electorates. The truth of the matter is that nobody in this Parliament has a monopoly on concern for the problems of people; nobody has a monopoly on indignation. To treat lightly, as some members of the Opposition tend to do, the problems of people on the land in Australia at die present time is to do a great disservice to a large section of the Australian community. There is no doubt in the world that the contribution made to our export earnings by the rural sector of the Australian economy is enormous, and it will remain an enormous contribution. Those who imagine that the days of the rural industries of Australia as a principal export earner are numbered are very mistaken. Those who imagine that this Government is prepared to take second place to any other political party in Australia in its concern for the rural areas of Australia is also very mistaken. We have made it very clear, time and time again, how concerned we are about the rural areas of Australia. We will continue to express that concern. 
I think the sincerity of the stand taken by the Government parties on this matter was demonstrated at the end of last year when the Australian Labor Party was able to win only one seat which could in any sense be classified as representing a genuinely rural area of Australia 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide can interject as much as he likes about subsidies in rural industries. He ought to remember the boastful way in which the former Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  held up the IAC report on the superphosphate bounty, a report which by a majority had recommended a reintroduction of the bounty. In his usual pompous fashion the former Prime Minister said: 'Of course I support the minority report', which was a recommendation against reintroduction of the bounty. The truth of the matter is that the Labor Party, by its performance when in Government and its posturing now when in Opposition, has no right to claim that it represents the concerns and the aspirations of the rural community of Australia. It forfeited that right a long time ago. People have spoken in this debate about hypocrisy. It was absolute hypocrisy on the part of any member of the Labor Party to get up and criticise the performance of this Government in relation to the rural areas of Australia. 
In his contribution the honourable member for Riverina criticised the decision of the Government to accept in principle the recommendation on phasing out. By implication and also directly, he criticised the decision to reduce the amount of the subsidy. I recognise the concern expressed by the honourable member for Riverina. Any decision of a government to reduce any kind of support is obviously going to be greeted with some concern by those affected by the decision. Out of deference to the business of the House, I should like to say this very briefly in reply to the honourable member for Riverina: The thrust of his argument- and I think he might appreciate thiswas directed in the main to considerations which ought to apply when one is considering income support for rural areas. 
The view of the IAC- and I am not suggesting that that body or any other body advising government is infallible- in this report was that a phasing out of the bounty was unlikely to raise total farm costs by more than 2 per cent for farmers applying large amounts of nitrogen or by more than one per cent for the majority of nitrogen growers. The IAC went on to say that the subsidy component represents an insignificant proportion of total production costs, from 2 per cent on sugar cane to 0. 1 per cent on tobacco. Even if the present subsidy were doubled this would have only a small effect on costs. I thank honourable members who have contributed to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to he honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Australian Statistician has advised that he cannot supply particulars of imports of orchids or greenery into Australia because imports of orchids and of greenery are not recorded separately in overseas trade statistics. However, the Statistician has supplied the following information on imports of: 
Cut flowers and buds for ornamental purposes (including orchids) and 
Foliage, branches, etc. for ornamental purposes (including greenery) for the financial years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76: 
The confidentiality provisions of the Census and Statistics Act precluded the Statistician from supplying any information relating to individual importers. 
The Department of Health has advised that orchid  flowers, other cut flowers and greenery, provided they are not capable of propagation, on arrival in Australia are inspected by plant quarantine officers and treated if it is found necessary. In principle equivalent procedures are applicable for fruit. In the case of living plants used for direct propagation, a mandatory fumigation coupled with growing and observation in post entry quarantine is necessary because the quarantine risks are significantly greater. 
Increases in Social Security Benefits (Question No. 1351) 
-My attention has been drawn to the reports. I am unaware whether the allegations made in that program are correct. I shall investigate the matter further and let the honourable gentleman know whether it comes within the ambit of Commonwealth law and if so whether anything can be done. I have no idea whether the allegations are correct. 
-The honourable gentleman has drawn my attention to a matter that has been the subject of representations from a number of honourable members, including those representing the electorates he named and also the honourable members for Angas and Wakefield. As a result of those representations and also representations from various farmer organisations, the Bureau of Customs discussed the matter with local manufacturers. There was some acknowledgment by local manufacturers that some of the harvesters now being imported into Australia have a much greater harvesting capacity than locally manufactured harvesters. As a consequence, I have approved a by-law for the duty free admission of certain large selfpropelled combine harvesters outside the range of local manufacture. For the purposes of administration of the by-law, the diameter and capacity dimensions will be involved. Full details will be the subject of publication in the form of a consolidated by-law reference. The point about price comparison is a little difficult to answer in the absence of suitably equivalent locally manufactured units. A price comparison cannot be made until such time as suitably equivalent units are manufactured locally. 
This Industries Assistance Commission report was furnished to the Government either late last year or early this year and made public in January of this year. An announcement was made subsequently- in February of this year- that the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme would be extended to cover the 1976 season. Following the release of the report the Government received representations from the Australian Dried Fruits Association and the Federal Grape Growers Council asking that they be allowed some extra time to study the report. That request was granted. Final comments were not received from those 2 bodies until after their respective council meetings in July and August. I anticipate that the interdepartmental committee will have completed its examination of the report by about the end of this month. I can assure the honourable gentleman, both in respect of this IAC report and in respect of all other IAC reports which have obvious social, employment and regional consequences, particularly to isolated communities that are highly dependent upon a particular industry, that in making any decisions on the IAC reports the Government will pay very special regard to the types of problems to which he has referred. 
by leave- I visited Port Moresby from 6 to 8 November to sign the Papua New Guinea /Australia Trade and Commercial Relations Agreement on behalf of the Government of Australia.  Sir Maori  Kiki signed on behalf of the Government of Papua New Guinea. A joint Press statement was issued by  Sir Maori  and myself following signature of the Agreement on 6 November. The Agreement will come into force when notes are exchanged between the Government of Australia and the Government of Papua New Guinea notifying compliance with their respective legal requirements. Trade between Papua New Guinea and Australia has always been an important feature of the special relationship which exists between the 2 countries. Since 1926 Australia has accorded special duty free entry to Papua New Guinea products. In the 1950s Australia obtained waivers from the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to accord extensive duty free treatment to Papua New Guinea primary and processed primary products. At the present time 95 per cent of Australian imports from Papua New Guinea enter free of duty. 
Papua New Guinea is an important market for Australian exports. In 1975-76 Australian producers exported approximately $170m worth of goods to Papua New Guinea. This represented 49 per cent of Papua New Guinea's total imports. Papua New Guinea is Australia's eleventh largest market for all exports and the third largest market for manufactured goods. Until the Agreement just signed comes into force trade relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea will continue to be governed by the Memorandum of Understanding relating to interim trade and commercial arrangements. The Memorandum, which was signed in December 1973, was intended to cover trade relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea in the period between self-government and independence. It was extended in April 1975 to cover the period between independence and the conclusion of a more permanent trade and commercial relations agreement between the 2 countries. 
Objectives of the Agreement 
Most of the trade between Papua New Guinea and Australia has traditionally been free of duties and other restrictions. It was therefore appropriate that both countries should enter into a free trade agreement. The Agreement was drawn up on the basis of the following 3 aims: To continue and extend the duty free and concessional conditions of access for Papua New Guinea exports into Australia; to allow the Papua New Guinea Government to develop new industries and to protect them from import competition; and to enable the Papua New Guinea Government to pursue its social and economic objectives through the encouragement of capital inflow consistent with its investment guidelines. It was recognised by both countries that Australia, in entering into this Agreement, should retain the right to protect its industries where it is considered that they are threatened with serious injury by imports from Papua New Guinea. It was also recognised that the Agreement should accord with Australia's GATT and other international obligations. 
Consistent with the aims outlined above the objectives of the Agreement are: To further the development of the area through the expansion and diversification of trade; to further the development and use of the resources of the area in accordance with the respective social and economic objectives of the member states; to further the development of the area by the promotion of direct investment which is consistent with the foreign investment policies and priorities of the recipient member states; to promote and facilitate commercial, industrial, administrative and technical co-operation between member states; and to contribute to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade and to the progressive removal of barriers to it. Accordingly the Agreement provides that a free trade area is established consisting of Papua New Guinea and Australia and that subject to certain exceptions specified in the Agreement trade between the member states should be free of duties and other restrictive regulations of commerce. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Bureau of Customs is currently conducting investigations in New Zealand to establish if dumping of processed cheese and pie apple is taking place. If dumping is in fact taking place and if current local inquiries reveal that the dumping is causing material injury to the Australian industry then negotiations will take place with the New Zealand Government in accordance with Article 10 of the New Zealand Australia Free Trade Agreement with a view to correcting the situation. A formal request has just been received by the Bureau of Customs for anti-dumping action to be taken against Gouda cheese, and the matter is currently being investigated. 
No other anti-dumping applications have been received from the agricultural or horticultural industries concerning dumping from New Zealand or any other country. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Customs Act 1901 to give effect to revised rules of origin, made under the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between the Government of Australia and the Government of Papua New Guinea, and to omit the word 'sativa' from the definition of cannibas plant in the Act. Honourable members will recall, from my statement to the House, after the signing of the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations, that the agreement establishes a free trade area which is free of duties and other restrictive regulations of commerce for trade in goods originating in a member State. In general the revised rules of origin provide for a one-half area content. However where the one-half rule is not met and it is considered that preferential treatment should be given, the Minister may determine that another portion that is less than one-half is appropriate. The new rules introduce a desirable flexibility by allowing this simple basic rule, the one-half rule, to operate without disadvantaging goods which do not meet the conditions of the rule but in respect of which it might be desirable to accord preferential treatment. 
J now turn to the amendment of the definition of 'cannabis plant'. The Customs Act defines cannabis plant as a plant of the genus 'cannabis sativa'. When this definition was inserted into the Customs Act in 197 1 it was intended to cover all known forms of cannabis. Since that time, overseas research on cannabis has led to a theory that the plant is polytypic rather than monotypic, that is to say there are species other than sativa. As this argument has been developed in Australia and used in prosecutions, the courts have experienced some difficulty in deciding whether or not the material in question is covered by the existing definition. The amended definition will overcome these difficulties by including only the main genus description, 'cannabis '. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Bills listed under orders of the day Nos 2 to 9, Government business, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 8 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on ADP equipment and parts. 
I move: 
It is a fact that in Melbourne last Friday I met all State Ministers responsible for corporate affairs, with the exception of the Queensland Attorney-General, who is overseas at the present time and was represented by one of his colleagues. The Ministers have agreed to meet again, not later than 18 February, by which time there will have been a complete exchange of views between the Commonwealth and the States regarding the essential details of the Commonwealth's proposals. I did not anticipate when the Commonwealth put its proposals in July of this year, that this matter could be resolved by one meeting between the Commonwealth and all the State Ministers concerned. It is a complex matter. I have made it clear that it is the Commonwealth Government's belief that the Commonwealth has distinct national responsibilities in these areas and that those responsibilities go beyond responsibilities as, in effect, agents for the Territories involved in the area. I am still cautiously optimistic that the Commonwealth's proposals will win the support of the States. I believe it is sensible for the Commonwealth to endeavour to secure a co-operative approach in this area. I believe that uniform legislation is desirable not only from the point of view of investor protection but also from the point of view of the business community. I believe that this legislation can best be achieved by a cooperative approach. 
Pursuant to section 88 of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974, I present the annual report of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This is not a matter which falls within the jurisdiction of the Trade Practices Commission. 
It is not appropriate for me to respond to this question which seeks to debate actions by a State Government. 
I require the debate to be extended. I would like briefly to reply to the contribution made in the adjournment debate tonight by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  Ever since the honourable member for Franklin came into this Parliament he has exhibited an enthusiastic interest in those causes in which he believes. He has displayed an enormous amount of interest in the future of the petroleum industry in Australia. He has displayed considerable concern for the future financial and social position of a very significant number of small businessmen in our community, the independent petrol resellers. In company with a number of other honourable members on the same side, the honourable member for Franklin has pressed on me as the Minister having some responsiblity in this area the problems which are posed for those in the petroleum industry at present. As I informed the House several weeks ago, an interdepartmental committee report on the royal commission's report has been furnished to the Government and I hope that the Government will be in a position shortly to make a decision on the recommendations of the royal commission. 
I say to the honourable member for Franklin and to all other honourable members who are interested in this very complex issue that the Government is conscious of the problems facing independent petrol resellers in Australia. The Government equally though is conscious of the problems facing the petroleum industry which go much wider than those facing just one section of the industry. The oil companies are not without problems and we should not forget the right of the consumers of petroleum products in Australia to have a certain level of price flexibility which is consistent with" a competitive arrangement in a market of this nature. However, I can assure the honourable member for Franklin that the interest he has displayed in this area is noted by the Government. The cause that he argues is a very understandable one and one that will be given careful consideration by the Government when decisions are made on the future marketing practices of this important industry. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eucalyptus dives oil, piperitone and cineole are free of Customs duty on importation into Australia. Menthol is subject to rates of duty as follows: 
General Tariff-22.5 percent Preferential Tariff- 1 5 per cent Developing Countries Tariff- 1 0 per cent New Zealand Tariff- Free 
No tariff quota arrangements apply to these goods. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 160 Trade Commissioners and Assistant Trade Commissioners of whom 124 are located at overseas posts. 
Trade Commissioners are situated in the following countries and cities: 
Arab Republic of Egypt (Cairo), Republic of the Argentine (Buenos Aires), Republic of Austria (Vienna), Bahrain, Belgium- Mission to the European Economic Community (Brussels), United States of Brazil (Sao Paulo), Britain (London and Manchester), Canada (Ottawa, Toronto and Vancouver), People's Republic of China (Peking), Fiji (Suva), Republic of France (Paris), German Democratic Republic (Berlin), Federal Republic of Germany (Bonn and Hamburg), Hellenic Republic (Athens), Hong Kong, India (New Delhi), Republic of Indonesia (Jakarta), Iran (Tehran), Iraq (Baghdad), Israel (Tel Aviv), Republic of Italy (Rome and Milan), Japan (Tokyo and Osaka), Kenya (Nairobi), Republic of Korea (Seoul), Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur), Republic of Mexico (Mexico City), Kingdom ofthe Netherlands (The Hague), New Zealand (Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch), Nigeria (Lagos), Pakistan (Karachi), Papua New Guinea (Port Moresby), Peru (Lima), Republic of the Philippines (Manila), Poland (Warsaw), Saudi Arabia (Jeddah), Singapore, Republic of South Africa (Johannesburg), Spain (Madrid), Sweden (Stockholm), Switzerland (Berne and Geneva), Thailand (Bangkok), Trinidad and Tobago (Port of Spain), Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Moscow), United States of America (Washington, New York, Chicago and San Francisco), Yugoslavia (Belgrade). 
The essential role of Trade Commissioners is to provide the commercial intelligence required by Australian exporters to enable them to exploit commercial opportunities in overseas markets in the manner most suited to their needs. Trade Commissioners also service the needs of associated departments and government agencies, including the Departments of National Resources, Primary Industry and Industry and Commerce, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation and statutory marketing authorities. Trade Commissioners are not authorised to negotiate sales of products. However, they are frequently involved in trade discussions which lead to sales by Australian exporters and marketing boards. 
The Australian Trade Commissioner Service is highly regarded by the Australian business community. Trade Commissioners undoubtedly have made and will continue to make a valuable contribution to the development of Australia's trade. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure concerning this legislation. I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill and the Narcotic Drugs Amendment Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put in regard to each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The honourable member will be aware that in recent weeks I have responded to a number of questions on this subject. I am aware of the concern felt by a number of honourable members about the problems of this industry. The inter-departmental committee has reported on the subject and I hope to be in a position to make recommendations to the Government very shortly. Before doing so, however, I would like the opportunity of some consultations with parties involved in the industry. I intend to do that before I finalise my recommendations because the issues concerned are very complex. It would be unwise to make final recommendations to the Government until I have had an opportunity of full consultation with not only representatives of the independent resellers but also representatives of the oil companies. 
The Government will vote against the second reading of the National Companies Bill not because all the objectives of the legislation are not the objectives which the Government might share, not because there is not a very compelling need in this country for a greater level of uniformity and not because I am in total disagreement with a number of the arguments which have been advanced by both the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitiam).  I agree with quite a number of the arguments which have been advanced. The reason the Government will vote against the second reading is that at this stage the approach which is fundamental to the introduction of this Bill is not in conformity with the policy option which the Government is currently pursuing in negotiation with the States. I appreciate that the honourable member for Grayndler finds it rather dilatory that a Commonwealth Minister over a period of 4 months has not been able to secure the agreement of the States. He chastises me- as he is entitled to do- for not having got on with the job. 
I think in doing that he reveals that he still has a great deal to learn about the processes of government. Indeed, I admit that I have a great deal to learn about the processes of government. This is an area which has been occupied by the States ever since Federation and which, by the force of the arguments of the honourable member for Grayndler, is a very fundamental to the commercial life of Australia. To anticipate that one can reach agreement with the States, in what is a very significant change in the arrangements as between the Commonwealth and the States, at 2 meetings and in the short period of 4 months is being a little unrealistic when one thinks of the long time which has been involved in other areas of Commonwealth-State negotiations. The Commonwealth proposals were announced on 6 July. The response at that time to those proposals was mixed. Some believed that the proposals were timorous. I think that was the word used by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. Others believed there were such gross impracticalities in the proposals that they would not operate. But there was also a considerable body of opinion which recognised that the approach being taken by this Government, given the enormous complexity of this area, was very practical and realistic. It was an approach which, in a very effective way, reached a compromise between the competing claims of national regulation and uniformity. 
I cannot dispute the force of the arguments in favour of those against the legitimate concern which is felt in many areas not only in Sydney and Melbourne but also, perhaps even more, in the less populous States. This legitimate concern has been expressed about the prospect of one government having total control over corporate regulations in Australia. If one listens to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and the honourable member for Grayndler one is led to believe that the commercial community in Australia is crying out for total and absolute Commonwealth control over the minutiae of this whole area without any qualification and without any safeguards, checks or balances about the possible abuse of that power. Although there is a very strong feeling in the commercial community for uniformity there is a very strong belief that the frustrations of having to comply with differing State requirements and with the expenses involved are matters which ought to be eliminated. Mixed with that feeling is also concern at the prospect that with one government having total control over corporate regulations without any checks, balances or safeguards, at some time in the future there could be legitimate concern in that area. It is because of these considerations and also out of consideration to the approach which this Government has adopted to cooperative federalism- I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith acknowledge the benefits of the new federalism as far as Queensland and Western Australia are concerned- that I was delighted to hear the honourable member say how well off those States are under the Government's proposals. I am glad to hear this ringing endorsement of the new federalism which - 
-I am not talking about what the States said. I am talking about what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said. Those were his words. He said that they had never been better off. I thank him very much for supporting the successful approach of the Government in this area. The Government's proposals are an attempt to bring about the desirable level of uniformity and of national regulation in those matters which are truly national. At the same time the Government proposes to accommodate some of the concerns of which I spoke earlier and also accommodate the very simple fact that despite the shortcomings of which the honourable gentleman spoke there is a very considerable expertise in corporate regulations at a State level in this country. 
I invite the honourable gentlemen who have argued that we will solve all these problems by transferring everything to the Commonwealth in one hit to bear in mind that the degree of expertise in administration in this area in, for example, New South Wales or Victoria is far greater than anything which is immediately at the disposal of the Commonwealth Government, be it a Commonwealth Government of our persuasion or of a Labor persuasion. There is nothing intrinsically magical about having a national administration as far as the expertise of the people is concerned. There is no reason why, given a removal of the constraints of having to deal with different jurisdiction, State officers, acting under effective cooperative legislation cannot perform very effectively and be responsible officers. 
Having said that, I should like to deal with a couple of the specific matters involved in the Opposition's approach. In effect, the Opposition is saying to this Parliament that there are no constitutional problems involved in this area, that the Commonwealth has such a totality of power that even if there are a few areas not covered by the Commonwealth that does not matter and they will be picked up by the State legislation. I would not be so bold as to assert that the constitutional position is as clear as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith thinks it is. So far as the advice given to the present Commonwealth Government is concerned, there is no doubt that the Commonwealth's power in this area is quite extensive. Equally, there is no doubt that that is a factor which the Government still has very much in mind in its negotiations with the States. Nonetheless, it is quite unreal to assert simply that it is possible to solve all the problems of differing jurisdictions, to solve all the complexities of companies having to operate across State borders simply by passing this Bill and its companion Bill which was introduced by the same honourable gentleman earlier this year, and that as a result of passing those 2 Bills there would be no problems. 
If one accepts the force of the argument put by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith about the attitude of certain States, one must then recognise that if what he is saying is true the sort of action the honourable member has in mind would immediately invite and provoke a constitutional challenge. Far from moving from a situation of great confusion and lack of uniformity, as the honourable member sees it, into a situation of tranquility and peace, there would be far more confusion and concern. The situation could arise where companies would feel that they had to comply with the differing requirements of both Commonwealth and State legislation in the same area. Naturally, those sorts of considerations impel any government approaching this matter responsibly to try to secure the co-operation of the States. We have put certain proposals to the States. We believe that certain essentials are involved in this area and we are not prepared to make concessions which would water down those essentials. But there are enormous political and commercial advantages, and I believe there could also be enormous legal advantages, in trying to secure the type of cooperative arrangement which is inherent in the proposals we have put forward. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Grayndler say that my proposals have been criticised by every competent or recognisedI am not sure which word it was- commentator on company law in Australia. I am not aware of any of the individual people and he did not refer to any of them. I am conscious that the proposals have been criticised by some people. I am equally conscious that the Government's proposals have been publicly welcomed by representatives of stock exchanges in Australia and by representatives of other business organisations in Australia. They have been publicly welcomed as proposals which are realistic and which will, if accepted by the States, go a very considerable distance towards solving the fundamental problems existing at the present time. 
The Government does not regard the interstate corporate affairs arrangement as being a sufficient response to the need for greater national legislation in this area. The Government does not believe that the Commonwealth's role in this area must be confined to the role of a mere agency for the Territories. A proposition to that effect is absurd because it would mean that if, for example, the Northern Territory became a State and the Australian Capital Territory achieved internal self-government, the Commonwealth would have no role. The Commonwealth does have a very distinct national role in this area. It is a role which flows very directly from the fact that the capital markets of Australia operate irrespective of State boundaries. The trading operations of many companies in Australia, certainly the major companies, operate irrespective of State boundaries. Essentially, we are dealing with a national market and it is therefore necessary to have a national response. It is equally true that of the 390 000 to 400 000 companies incorporated around Australia, about 90 per cent are proprietary companies and of that 90 per cent the overwhelming majority carry on business in only one State. I accept completely, and it is implicit in the Government's proposals, that a company which is trading across State boundaries ought not to be in a situation where the attitude of the Commissioner for Corporate Affairs in New South Wales is different from that in Victoria, but surely one cannot apply quite the same approach when looking at a family business which is simply carrying on its operations in one suburb of Melbourne or Perth or Sydney. As honourable gentlemen who spoke for the Opposition know full well, the great majority of companies incorporated in Australia, so far as numbers are concerned, are companies which do not trade nationally. They carry on their operations within the boundaries of one State. 
I think there is enormous merit in trying to establish a scheme which embraces within it a  de facto  division of responsibility between Federal and State administrations where a national administration is concerned essentially with the national aspects of the operations of companies and of the capital market and where existing State administrations in appropriate cases are utilised by that national administration in the performance of its national responsibilities. But in respect of regulatory matters affecting proprietary companies, certainly in those areas where a business is carried on in one State, in the great bulk of routine administrative work for companies I see merit in the existing State administrations carrying on those operations. 
Much reference was made during the speeches of Opposition members to the Rae report. I have just 2 things to say about the Rae report. The first is that the author of the report has publicly supported the Government's approach in this area. The second is that the essential deficiency which the Rae investigation established- a very essential deficiency- was the incapacity of individual State administrations to act in respect of activities which went across State boundaries. Fundamentally, that meant that the most important reform needed in this area was the establishment of a national body capable of acting irrespective of State boundaries. There is nothing at all in the proposals of the Commonwealth Government to prevent that situation from coming about. Our proposals do involve the establishment of a national corporations and securities commission. Our proposals do involve a situation where all the necessary power needed to enable that body to act irrespective of State boundaries will be given to that body. My advice is that the Commonwealth's proposals are within constitutional power and can be given effect to if they are accepted by the States. I believe that if our proposals are accepted by the States and if they are implemented, then essentially we will have given effect to the fundamental recommendation of the Rae investigation. We will have satisfactorily provided that national administration which is so necessary to act irrespective of State boundaries. 
This is a very complex issue. It is an issue which involves at the outset, so far as we are concerned, trying to reach a political agreement between the Commonwealth and the States regarding a co-operative approach. We have put proposals to the States which we regard as proper, which we regard as very reasonable, and which we regard as involving the States in a very full sense in both the administration and the reform of the law. I want to make it quite clear to the House that the Government has made a very definite policy decision, that it has certain national responsibilities in this area, that those responsibilities cannot be adequately discharged unless there is a large measure of Commonwealth involvement. We do not intend to retreat from that decision. The decision has been taken. We believe that it can best be given effect to by the approach we have adopted towards the States. But I wish to make it quite clear that in negotiating with the States it is constantly our situation that this problem can be solved only by an adequate level of involvement and responsibility on the part of the Commonwealth. 
The only other point I wish to make concerning the substance of the Bill which has been introduced by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is that, as I understand it, this Bill is, in effect, precisely the same as the Bill which was about to be introduced prior to the dissolution of the last Parliament. I think the House should know that this Bill was prepared without any consultation at all with the State governments. It was prepared without any meaningful consultation with the business community of Australia. In other words, the most fundamental piece of commercial legislation that we can have in this country, that is, the basic statute to regulate company behaviour, was, I understand, prepared without any meaningful consultation with either the business community or State governments. 
I think this indicates why the approach that was adopted by the previous Government towards matters such as national companies legislation and regulation of the securities industry was greeted with such scepticism, concern and in some quarters, criticism by people in the commercial community. The former Labor Government, in its whole approach to this matter, particularly when it was the concern of former Attorney-General Murphy, exhibited a disregard for the concept of effective consultation in this area. It is little wonder that great suspicion and concern were felt in many sections of the commercial community with regard to this legislation. It is a very important policy objective of this Government and, in particular, an important policy objective of myself, to bring about an effective system of companies and securities industry legislation in Australia which involves a greater level of uniformity, which involves a national body capable of acting in appropriate cases in respect of national matters, which preserves the effective role of existing State administrations and which contains, I think, a desirable level of co-operation and consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
I believe that, notwithstanding the inevitable difficulties of negotiating with States, irrespective of the political colour of the States or of the Commonwealth Government of the day, there are prospects that our proposals can be and will be accepted by the States. They are a genuine attempt to provide both a politically acceptable solution to this problem and a genuine attempt to provide a solution which will cause a minimum of disruption, confusion and delay to the business community of Australia. This is a very important consideration with regard to this particular matter. Therefore, whilst many of the objectives of legislation of this nature are objectives that the Government shares in common with the views expressed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and whilst the Government is committed to greater uniformity in this area and a greater involvement by the Commonwealth Government, for the reasons I have outlined the approach at this time by the Opposition is fundamentally at odds with the approach that the Government has adopted to this matter. It will therefore be the intention of the Government to vote against the second reading. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  agreed to- 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I thank the Opposition for its support of this legislation and also Government speakers who contributed to the debate. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that the trade agreement could have been more generous. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who I understand to be the Opposition spokesman on overseas trade matters, was not of that view when he spoke for the Opposition in response to my ministerial statement, though it is not unusual to have differences of opinion on the front bench of the Opposition even on matters that are normally regarded as bipartisan. I would have thought that trade with Papua New Guinea, given the unique relationship to which the honourable member for Adelaide rightly referred in his speech, would have been of such a nature as to prevent the honourable member from trying to score a mere debating point by saying that the agreement could have been more generous. Any trade agreement can be more generous for either participant but the fact is that under this trade agreement total duty free entry is accorded to products of Papua New Guinea coming into Australia. On the other hand, Australia's position with regard to entry of our goods into Papua New Guinea is limited to most favoured nation treatment; in other words, we are at no advantage over any other third nation. 
There inevitably has been some reference to the drug problem in Australia during this debate and I want to quickly respond to remarks made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He made a suggestion which he has made to me before about undue publicity being given to the value of drug seizures. I will have the matter investigated and will positively respond to what the honourable member has said but this is only one side of the argument. It could be said that anybody who is of the character likely to become a drug trafficker would probably find out the value of such trafficking irrespective of whether that information appeared in a daily newspaper. I should not think that the mere suppression of the value of drug seizures and sales would of itself prevent people who had a disposition to engage in drug trafficking from getting involved. Nonetheless, I accept that it was a very genuine concern that was put by the honourable member for Prospect and I will respond to it. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide asked that the House be informed of any discretions exercised under the free trade agreement. I will take that on board and see whether it is possible for some arrangement like that to be made. It was a very legitimate request on his behalf. There is only one other comment that I would like to make on the general drug question. I think all speakers have shown how widespread is the concern in this House about this matter. I would like to respond to the remarks of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  about the Narcotics Bureau. It is composed of an outstanding group of officers within my Department. The Bureau has an extraordinarily difficult job to perform. We have an extraordinarily large coastline. We have a large number of points of entry into this country. Often the Bureau has to strike a difficult balance between the civil liberties of the innocent citizen and strong pressure on the part of the community to have effective surveillance methods for the interception of the people who are trying to smuggle drugs into 
Australia. I should hope that those who are minded to criticise on the occasions when perhaps searches should not have been undertaken and so forth would bear in mind that the surveillance of this particular problem is extraordinarily difficult and that the Bureau is charged with a very difficult job. I would not want the opportunity to pass by without recording my personal appreciation and that of the Government of the job that the Bureau is doing at the present time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on animal foods, etc. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a resolution concerning the further extension of the International Sugar Agreement of 1 973. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Department of Industry and Commerce has received representations from some manufacturers requesting increased tariff protection against imports of Edam and Gouda cheese. 
The Department is seeking the views of the industry on whether there is support for the representations received. If this support is forthcoming the industry will be contacted to obtain data necessary to determine whether a prima facie case exists for reference to either the Industries Assistance Commission or Temporary Assistance Authority. 
The Department will submit to me a report on the outcome of its inquiries and a decision then will be made on whether a reference should be sent on the question of additional assistance for the industry. 
In response to references received the Industries Assistance Commission or the Temporary Assistance Authority reports on the question of whether additional assistance should be accorded against imports from all sources, including New Zealand. Decisions are then taken by the Government in the light of recommendations made in these reports, taking into account Australia's international commitments including those under the NAFTA. 
Responsibility for the administration of the anti-dumping legislation rests with the Minister for Business and Consumer  were circulated: 
Affairs. The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs is currently investigating a request for anti-dumping action against imports of Edam and Gouda cheese from New Zealand. 
Development of Uranium Deposits at Alligator River  (Question No. 1156) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The interdepartmental committee which was established to examine the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum comprised the Departments of Business and Consumer Affairs (Chairman), Attorney-General 's, Capital Territory, Environment, Housing and Community Development, Industry and Commerce, National Resources, Northern Territory, Primary Industry, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Transport and the Treasury. 
5 May 1976. 
3 ) To advise on the Royal Commission 's report. 
23 September 1976. 
Reduction in Staff at Woomera  (Question No. 1529) 
On 4 November 1976  Mr William  McMahon asked the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade whether he has yet been informed of the decision of the Japanese administration to suspend the import of Australian chilled beef under what is called the Touch I section of Japanese meat import controls. Is he aware that until yesterday the price of quality steers had fallen disastrously by over $40 a head and that yesterday at the Wodonga sales it fell from $132 to $70 a head, with naturally disastrous consequences for producers in this premium market? Will he discuss this matter with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure that strong representations are made to the Japanese Government to have the administration decision reversed? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my reply to the Right Honourable member on 4 November, I indicated that the Government had already made strong representations to the Japanese authorities about a reported suggestion that the Japanese Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation has deferred the importation of 2000 tonnes of chilled beef. 
The position is that the Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation has advised Japanese importers that they may, subject to their commercial judgment, defer until January the importation of up to 40 per cent (2000 tonnes) of the 5000 tonnes of chilled beef scheduled for delivery in December. In normal circumstances, only about 15 per cent of any months scheduled imports are permitted to be held over for late delivery. 
We have now been assured by Japanese officials that such action is not intended as a restraint of beef shipments to Japan, but represents in fact little more than an extension of permitted delivery times. The Japanese have stressed that the deferments are not compulsory but give Japanese traders the option of deferring part of their scheduled December shipments in line with their commercial judgments on price trends. Clearly, any deferments in delivery dates will need to be made in accordance with individual contracts and it will be for Australian exporters to decide whether they will agree to any such deferments under the terms of their contracts. 
In these circumstances, I would hope that the fall in prices recorded at the Wodonga sales on 3 November will be shown to have been related to temporary uncertainty concerning Japanese intentions. 
I move: 
1 ) That a Select Committee be appointed: 
to examine the significance and potential of tourism in the Australian economy and whether it has special features in comparison with other industries, with particular reference to its effects on: 
employment, 
balance of payments aspects, 
the community's knowledge of Australia and the Australian heritage, 
community health and welfare, and 
regional development and decentralisation; 
to identify the short and long term issues facing the industry in Australia; 
to examine the importance of the various modes of transport in the development of tourism to and within Australia; 
to examine the roles and responsibilities of the Commonwealth, State and local governments and the industry in relation to the development and promotion of tourism; 
to assess the adequacy and the availability of statistical and other information relating to tourism, and 
f) to report on its investigations into these matters and to recommend action that might be taken by the Commonwealth Government or by the Commonwealth Government in co-operation with State and local governments and the tourist industry to alleviate any problems identified by the committee during the course of its investigations. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of eight members, live to be nominated by the Prime Minister and three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such subcommittee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee have power to move from place to place. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any sittings or adjournment 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it 
14) That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
1 5 ) That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
That the committee report as soon as possible and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to the committee 's report. 
1 7 ) That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
In response to a question from the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  on 4 November 1976 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  agreed to consider establishing a select committee of the House to look into tourism. Honourable members will be aware that some segments of the tourist industry have been experiencing difficult trading conditions. It is an industry which is particularly susceptible to fluctuations in levels of economic activity. The problems of the industry are exacerbated by the increasing number of Australians travelling overseas. The latest figures available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicate that during 1975-76 Australians spent $5 19m travelling overseas while overseas visitors spent $255m in Australia. The Government's decision to devalue will, of course, assist in narrowing the gap between travel debits and credits. 
The tourist industry is an important industry. It is a significant employer of labour, employing up to 5 per cent of the work force. It is important to State economies, particularly Tasmania and Queensland. It is the life blood of some regions. The Gold Coast and the Snowy Mountains are but 2 examples of this. Tourism has important social implications. It is a means by which Australians as well as overseas visitors can learn more about our country and our heritage. It is a worthwhile means of using increasing hours of leisure. In short, the many facets of this important and growing industry contribute to the Australian economy through: Urban and rural development; decentralisation; new and expanded employment outlets; contribution to foreign exchange earnings; avenues for profitable short and long term investment; a contribution to education; new avenues for improving community health and welfare, both physical and mental; a deeper understanding of different cultural standards and community attitudes; and a wider base for international understanding and goodwill. It is against this background that the Government has decided to establish a select committee to inquire into the industry. Acting on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  I have put down the terms of reference. 
The terms of reference are broad and the task is of some magnitude. It is difficult therefore to set a firm deadline for the committee to complete its inquiries and prepare a report. However, I am sure we can rely on the enthusiasm of the members of the committee to complete their task as quickly as possible. Because of the involvement of Commonwealth, State and local governments in tourism, specific mention has been made in the terms of reference of the responsibilities of the 3 levels of government. Honourable members may know that last September the Minister for Industry and Commerce appointed a Government Members Committee on Tourism under the chairmanship of  Senator Rae.  This Committee has been working most diligently and has received many submissions. Its report is due to be completed before the end of the year. I feel sure that its findings will be of interest and of considerable use to the select committee. I commend the motion to the House. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that foreign control of Australian manufacturing industry increased from 28.7 per cent of the value of total manufacturing production in 1966-67 to 34.3 per cent of manufacturing value added in 1972-73. However, the Bureau has stressed that because of changes in definitions the statistics for the two years are not strictly comparable and should be taken only as a broad approximation of changes in the level of foreign control. 
) No data is available on changes in the extent of foreign control in manufacturing since 1972-73 but it is considered unlikely that any significant changes have occurred. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Australian Statistician has advised that he cannot supply particulars of imports of buses and coaches according to whether they are new or second-hand since imports of buses and coaches are not separately recorded on that basis. However, the Statistician has supplied the following information showing imports into Australia of ( a ) assembled buses and coaches and (b) unassembled buses and coaches for the years 1974-75 and 1975-76: 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes- the Tourist Ministers' Council agreed that the tourist and travel industry in Australia currently oners opportunity for growth, development and expansion. Governments at all levels, but particularly the States, are one source of provision of the necessary infrastructure, facilities and services from which a viable industry can develop. Industry must also be prepared to take up the available investment opportunities and government policies are being directed to improving the economic climate so that such decisions can be made more readily and with greater certainty. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics has recently revised its travel debit and credit estimates for the year ended 30 June 1976 and as set out in their balance of payments bulletin released 3 November 1 976, the imbalance between inbound and outbound travel for this period was $264m. This amends the previous estimate of $292m. 
The following objectives were agreed to by the Tourist Ministers ' Council: 
The development of a viable and efficient tourist industry in Australia. 
An economic concept that includes Governments' overall objectives and optimises the use of available resources. It envisages a dynamic tourist industry component of the total economy, containing a balanced mix of enterprises, supported by Government provided infrastructure, the whole existing at levels responding sensitively to growth and changes in demand. 
The development of a range and quality of tourism opportunities appropriate to the needs of residents of and visitors to Australia. 
A social concept that expresses Governments' desire to induce the development of a structure of tourist facilities and services designed to meet people's needs for leisure recreation consistent with their desire for an improved quality of life. 
Achievement of the above with due regard to the natural and social environment of Australia. 
This is a public interest concept providing for the control and regulation of tourist activity, so that the rights of individuals and groups are safeguarded, one against the other, and resources are preserved, as considered desirable, for the common good and for future generations. 
As announced in the 1976-77 Budget $3m has been allocated to the Australian Tourist Commission during the current year for the promotion of tourism into Australia. The promotion of tourism within Australia is primarily a matter for the States and Territories. The 1 976-77 Budget also made provision for a sum of $833,000 to meet outstanding commitments under the grants scheme for the development of tourist attractions. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The Australian Tourist Commission does expect an increase in overseas travel by Americans during the next twelve months, provided there is a continued improvement in the U.S. economy. Some 75 000 Americans are expected to visit Australia in 1 976, increasing to 80 000 in 1 977. 
The Australian Tourist Commission fully appreciates the potential of the American market and has indicated it will be doing everything possible within its resources to capitalise on this market Following a very successful North American Travel Task Force organised and sponsored by the Commission during1975-76, plans are in hand to mount a further Task Force which will promote Australia to the American travel trade and American consumers in the Western States, in April-May 1977. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 visited Lizard Island from 13 June 1976 to 24 June 1976, accompanied by my wife. 

 Mr Williams is  Chairman  of Lizard Island Pty Ltd and Trustee of Lizard Island Research Station. 
Yes. 
I move: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The recommendations of the Trade Practices Act Review Committee in relation to restrictive covenants over land expressly recognised that it would be outside the scope of the Trade Practices Act if a restriction upon a person using his land to trade in a particular way was imposed by a public authority operating pursuant to law (such as town planning rules). Any action proposed by the Government on this matter will be anounced when it has fully considered the Committee 's recommendations. 
Because at some inquiries the parties, even though they have opposing interests, may wish to have the inquiry held in private. It is very unlikely that many inquiries would fall into that category. I assure the honourable member for Chifley that I would be very surprised if all the various parties to the inquiry to which he alluded had wanted it to be carried out in public. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
Let me just tell the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  2 things on the question of public inquiries. Firstly, it is purely at the discretion of the Prices Justification Tribunal whether an inquiry shall be held in public. There is no question, the discretion is in the hands of the Tribunal. It can only consider not holding an inquiry in public if all the parties involved make such a request. It is still ultimately - 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Consumer Education' which has been prepared and furnished to me by the Trade 
Practices Commission, pursuant to a direction which I gave the Commission under section 29 of the Trade Practices Act earlier this year. The report will be studied by the Government. It will be of great assistance in formulating consumer education policy. 
Imove: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 30 June 1977 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals 23 to 26 introduced into the Parliament during the current session and not covered by Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 now before this House. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collection of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals is protected against legal challenge for 6 months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever occurs first. The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a customs tariff amendment Bill which will formerly enact the tariff changes contained in the Proposals. 
It is anticipated a customs tariff amendment Bill will be introduced during the autumn session to cover the Proposals included in this Bill. Honourable members will have an opportunity at that time to debate the Proposals or any general questions of Government tariff policies. The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: 
Cosmetics and toilet preparations; 
Leather and leather substitute products; 
ADP equipment and parts; and 
Animal foods. 
Full details of the changes concerned were supplied to honourable members at the time of introduction of the relevant tariff Proposals. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I would be very happy to answer that query. This clause which deals with subsidiaries was put in quite deliberately to cover the situation where the parent company of a group of companies is obliged by reason of its turnover to notify price increases. It is reasonable that small subsidiaries in that group be relieved ofthe like obligation. If the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  reads the earlier parts of the legislation, not the amending Bill but the principal Act, he will find defined what constitutes a subsidiary company. A subsidiary company for the purposes of this operation is a related company to a parent company as defined in the Act. It becomes a prescribed company because the parent company is a prescribed company, being over the turnover bench mark. 
Obviously the effect of this amendment will be to exclude the subsidiary companies of which the honourable member has spoken. There is no proviso about these companies operating in a separate area. The test of relationship is the test already embodied in the Act. No further definition of relationship is introduced so far as the amending Bill is concerned. If one goes to clause 4 of the amending Bill one finds for the purpose of the legislation what constitutes a holding company and a subsidiary company and the circumstances in which a company is to be regarded as a subsidiary company. It is quite clear from that what the answer to the honourable gentleman's question is. If one goes to the final part of clause 5, which deals with the $5m proviso, one can see the scheme of the legislation. 
-I will come to that if the honourable gentleman will be patient for a moment. My information is that the effect of this amendment will be to take out of the notification procedures of the Act about 1000 subsidiary companies. 
-Yes, at the moment. The honourable member for Port Adelaide says that large companies will further subdivide themselves into subsidiaries to take advantage of the fact that the subsidiaries will not be required to comply with the notification procedures. It is true that this could occur in some cases. It is equally true, though, that it is not a completely costless exercise to embark upon a corporate restructure. If one has a holding company that has large capital assets and it transfers those capital assets to related companies it pays almost confiscatory rates of stamp duty and so forth. It is just not always an attractive economic exercise to do this. 
Whilst I can see that in some cases companies will take advantage of this procedure, I just do not accept that the great majority of the large enterprises will go to the bother and expense and be subject to all the managerial problems involved in corporate restructuring just for the purpose of avoiding the notification procedures. I do not deny that it could occur in some cases. That is acknowledged. We go into that with our eyes open. I just do not believe, having in mind the costs and so forth which will be involved in that sort of corporate restructuring, that it will occur in very many cases. 
I move: 
In proposed section 7a (4), omit 'Commission', substitute Tribunal'. 
The purpose of this amendment is purely to correct a printing error which appeared in the original amending Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 15- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
1 ) Section 1 8 ofthe Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the figures and word '30 days' and substituting the figures and word 90 days'; 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the figures and word '30 days' and substituting the figures and word 90 days'; and 
by omitting sub-section (8) and substituting the following sub-sections:- 
*(8c) An exemption granted in pursuance of an authorization given under sub-section (8) shall not be revoked unless- 
the Tribunal is satisfied that the circumstances by reason of which the exemption was granted no longer exist or that there has been a material change in those circumstances; and 
the  Chairman  has given to the company or companies concerned 14 days' notice in writing of his intention to revoke the exemption. '. 
Notwithstanding the amendment made by paragraph  (D(c)- 
any authorization given by the Tribunal under subsection 18 (8) of the Principal Act that was in force immediately before the commencement of this subsection shall have effect as if it had been given under sub-section 1 8 ( 8 ) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act; and 
b) any exemption granted in pursuance of an authorization given under sub-section 18 (8) of the Principal Act, being an exemption that was in force immediately before the commencement of this sub-section, shall be deemed to have been granted in pursuance of an authorization given under sub-section 18(8) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  wonder whether the Opposition will allow the Minister to move 4 amendments together. It seems to me that that will facilitate the conduct of the debate. Is leave granted? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I move: 
Before proposed sub-section (8C), insert the following sub-sections: " '(8ba) For the purposes of this section- 
'market means a market in Australia; and 
'market', in relation to any goods or services, includes a market for other goods or services that are substitutable for, or otherwise competitive with, the first-mentioned goods or services. (8bb) The grant of an exemption in pursuance of an authorization given under sub-section (8) shall not be made subject to any condition. ' '. 
In sub-clause 2 ( a ) omit " and ". 
In sub-clause 2, at the end of paragraph (b), add "; and". 
At the end of sub-clause (2 ), add the following paragraph: "(c) where an exemption granted in pursuance of an authorization given under sub-section 18 (8) of the Principal Act, being an exemption that was in force immediately before the commencement of this subsection, is subject to a condition, that condition is of no effect.". 
The purpose of the amendments dealing with the definition of 'market' are to give greater clarity to the word 'market' as used in the clause. I think those 2 amendments are self-explanatory. The other amendments relate to the question of exemptions. The Government has decided to provide in the legislation that a company having obtained an exemption from the notification procedures of the Act is not required to comply with conditions attaching to that exemption. The legislation is being amended to expressly provide that when an exemption is granted by the Tribunal, if the exemption was in force immediately before the commencement of sub-clause (2) (c), and was subject to a condition, that condition will be of no effect. I stress that the question of whether an exemption is to be granted is a matter for the Tribunal to decide in the light of a number of considerations. Some of those considerations have been spelled out in the legislation but others have deliberately not been spelled out in the legislation. I think all honourable gentlemen will realise that when we get into areas such as trying to define what is competition, what is extensive competition and what is a monopoly position, that while the legislature can give some guidance it is extremely difficult to put in a complete shopping list which defines all the circumstances which will point one in a particular direction. 
What the Government is trying to do with new clause 16 in the Bill is to indicate some of the areas to which it believes the Tribunal should, firstly, direct its mind and, secondly, having decided that a certain situation exists as a result of that decision, to treat those areas as being relevant matters. As I said in my second reading speech and I think, as I said in the statement which I attempted to make to the House some 2 months ago, the Government believes that where an exemption is granted the company which obtained the exemption should be entitled to the benefits of that exemption. The Government does not believe that exemptions which are granted and which have attached to them very considerable reporting conditions quite meet the objective of the exemption procedure. The exemption procedure is designed to ensure that if, for a combination of reasons, the Tribunal believes that a company should be exempt from the notification procedures- in other words, excused from complying with the notification procedures- then the company should be entitled to the full benefit of that decision of the Tribunal and not be in a situation where, on the one hand, a decision is made that circumstances justify the exemption being granted and then, on the other hand, find that some of the conditions attaching to the exemption go considerably along the way to restoring what might be the position if the exemption had not been granted in the first place. That is the rationale behind the amendment. 
We believe that the amendments give effect to that point of view. They are consistent with what has been said publicly over the past 2 or 3 months about our proposal regarding the Prices Justification Tribunal. They are consistent with a situation where, more and more, the Tribunal will be in a situation to concentrate on investigating areas of price abuse. I think the amendments will clarify both in the minds of the Tribunal and of companies which must deal with the Tribunal what view the Government takes as to the nature of exemptions and what should be the consequences of those exemptions being granted. 
 I would like to reply to a couple ofthe more extravagant remarks made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  in his usual robust style. On the question of section 16 applications the honourable member for Grayndler upbraids the Government for not having utilised section 16 at all in the time it has been in office. It so happens that a proposed exercise of the section 16 power ofthe initiative of the Government occurred contemporaneously with a decision of the Tribunal at its own initiative to carry out an inquiry under section 16. The whole point of these amendments is to free the resources of the Tribunal which are now devoted to the notification procedures. As a consequence it will be possible for the Tribunal to play a much greater role in the area of section 16 inquiries, particularly inquiries which are in response to complaints expressed by consumers about price abuse. 
The honourable member for Grayndler should realise that there exists in Australia now a considerable number of bodies which receive complaints and information from consumers about pricing practices. As a result of contact which is operating very well between the Trade Practices Commission, my own Department and the various consumer affairs bureaux of the States we are steadily getting into a better position to have an Australia-wide appreciation of the incidence of consumer complaints regarding pricing behaviour. As a consequence of this it will be possible for the Government to identify areas where there is public concern about the level of prices which are charged. I call to mind the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  Even if one has the same philosophical view about pricing as was expressed by the Opposition during this debate, having a federal body such as the Prices Justification Tribunal endeavouring to sift through large numbers of price notifications is a considerable difficulty and it will continue to be a growing difficulty. What the Government is really saying is this: Free the Prices Justification Tribunal from many ofthe responsibilities and constraints involved in the notification procedure, give it the opportunity to be more active in responding to areas where there is consumer concern about price abuse. The Government believes it can play a far more useful role. 
The Opposition has commented during this debate about staffing levels in the Prices Justification Tribunal and about the salary situation there. I assure the House again that the Tribunal has been treated no differently by the Government, with respect to the Government's expenditure restraints and staff ceiling restraints, than any other body. There has been no attempt by the Government to single out the Tribunal for discriminatory treatment. Of course the future of the Tribunal was in doubt for a period of time. We make no secret of that. It was in doubt because the Government was in the process of consulting interested parties, including the trade union movement and sections of the business community, regarding the future of the Tribunal. It was only natural that there would be doubt during that period of time. The Government understood fully the difficulties under which the Tribunal laboured during that period. Let us not beat about the bush. The Government gave a pre-election undertaking that the Tribunal would be abolished. Then, for the reasons I have explained, that undertaking was revised and the 
Government undertook to look at the body again. It was only natural that there would be a period of doubt, a period during which the future of the Tribunal would be in the grey area, but that doubt has now been removed. 
The role of the Tribunal will be significantly changed by this legislation. The honourable member for Grayndler complains about our approach to the exemption procedures. The fact of the matter is that, as a result of fluctuations in a company's profitability, it can go quite arbitrarily in and out of the notification procedures. Under the proposed amendment if a company has a turnover of $3 1 m and this figure then falls to a figure below $30m, it goes out of the notification procedures. The information that the Tribunal gathers, as a consequence of that, is also lost to the Tribunal. What the Government is putting is that if the Tribunal, while exercising its judgment and discretion, believes for a combination of reasons, including, not only that a monopoly position exists, but also that there are aS sorts of other factors, that a company should be exempted from the notification procedures, that company ought to be entitled to the same benefits of that exemption as is a company which may be below the turnover limit. I put it to the Opposition that the approach of the honourable member for Grayndler is that we should have an exemption situation which says, on the one hand: Yes, you have satisfied certain criteria. For a combination of reasons you should not be required to notify. On the other hand, we are going to attach reporting requirements as a condition of your receiving that exemption '. In many cases these requirements could be almost as onerous as the notification procedures themselves. 
The fact of the matter is that, in substantial areas where exemptions have been granted, the notification procedures have been quite onerous. The purpose of this further amendment is to make it perfectly clear that in the view of the Government if a company is entitled, according to the assessment of the Tribunal, to the benefit of an exemption, this should be a real benefit and a benefit which the company is entitled to enjoy to the fullest. 
in reply- I thank those honourable members who contributed to the debate. I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the House that the purpose of this legislation is not to destroy the Prices Justification Tribunal. Certainly the purpose of the legislation is to alter the role of the PJT and, in the view of the Government, to improve its role. The Government, quite understandably, has a different conception from the Opposition of the role of a body such as this. We believe that there is considerable merit in having a body which can respond to areas in which there is evidence of price abuse. The effect of the amendments to the PJT legislation will enable a greater share of the resources of the Tribunal to concentrate on those areas of price abuse. So I think it ought to be made quite clear that this is no furtive attempt to destroy the PJT. It is an open system of amendments to the legislation which will certainly bring about a changed role. The Government believes that the role of the Tribunal should change. It hopes that the amendments will give effect to the view held by the Government. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide talked a great deal about the social contract, as he called it. I believe that the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  were quite relevant to the parallel that the honourable member for Port Adelaide drew between the procedures of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the procedures of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Nevertheless, the Government has acknowledged, and acknowledges again, that in reviewing the pre-election undertaking it made about the Prices Justification Tribunal it had very much in mind the industrial relations context. In the light of that, for the honourable member for Port Adelaide to say that we are being provocative in regard to industrial relations by changing the role ofthe PJT, when we had committed ourselves prior to the election to its abolition and then in the light of industrial relations considerations we reviewed that undertaking, is, I think, being totally unreasonable. 
We consulted the trade union movement. It was consulted extensively about the future operations ofthe Prices Justification Tribunal. Those consultations occurred both at a Minister to  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions level and at a research officer-officials of the ACTU level. The honourable member for Port Adelaide upbraids the Government because the legislation represents the decision of the Government. Surely the honourable member is not suggesting other than that governments are elected to make decisions. Having discharged any commitments made regarding consultation with relevant sectors of the community, a government ought to be quite free to make its decisions. 
In commending the legislation to the House, I repeat that its object is to alter significantly the role ofthe Prices Justification Tribunal, to reduce its price-approving role and to enhance its pricesurveillance role. I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  acknowledged the enormous difficulties of a federal tribunal of this nature undertaking a comprehensive priceapproval role. This is one of the considerations that the Government had in mind. It is one of the reasons why it is the Government's wish- a wish expressed through this legislation- that the Prices Justification Tribunal concentrate more of its resources and its activities on investigating areas in which there is evidence of price abuse rather than on encumbering an increasingly large number of Australian enterprises with the admittedly costly procedure of complying with the detailed notification procedures. There is a cost in that. It has been passed on to the consumer. It is a cost which business has to bear. We believe that the combined effect of these alterations will be to produce a more satisfactory body, a body which can make a contribution towards understanding the reasons for price movements in Australia, but a body whose operations will at the same time not place undue pressures and strains on the capacity of business organisations. 
Throughout the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide there is still the presumption that the greater the size of an organisation the greater is the malice of its operations. The assumption is simply made that there are areas of price abuse only where there are large companies and that it is the large companies of Australia that are responsible for all the unsavoury and unsatisfactory market practices. That may be true in respect of certain large organisations, but it has not been my experience -I do not think it has been the general experience in this country- that size necessarily equals degree of culpability so far as price abuse and baa market practices are concerned. There are just as many price abuses at the lower end of the scale as there are at the higher end ofthe scale so far as business operations are concerned. I think that the type of argument he brought to this debate represents a fairly outdated attitude- an attitude of making provocative statements about the industrial relations climate in Australia- and an approach which did not contribute anything towards the improvement of that climate. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A market for Australian lamb does exist in the United States of America and in recent years shipments to that market have been ofthe order of 3000 tonnes per annum. 
Australian lamb is subject to an import duty of 1.7 United States cents per lb. when imported into the United States. 
The Australian Meat Board in partnership with the New Zealand Meat Producers' Board and United States lamb producers, represented by the American Sheep Producers' Council, jointly finance and conduct the activities of the Lamb Promotion Co-ordination Committee in the United  States. The objective  of this Committee is to develop a growing market for lamb in the United States, irrespective of its origin. Activities of the Committee include publications, film strips, display activities and advertising. 
Lamb is a relatively high priced meat in the United States and, despite the activities of the Lamb Promotion Coordination Committee, consumption remains low. Also there is a strong preference on the part of consumers for their own domestic lamb over the imported frozen product Australian exporters do not face any quantitative restrictions on lamb entering the United States and I am hopeful that Austalian exports will grow. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Customs is currently taking action on requests for anti-dumping action against imports of processed cheese and pie apple. The Bureau has more recently received an industry complaint in respect of several varieties of cheese from nominated countries. No other requests have been received from the agricultural or horticultural industries. 
I am not aware of any confusion arising from the procedures which have to be followed for firms or individuals to obtain a review of industry protection or action on possible dumping. The initial procedures to be followed are set out in (3) below. 
Any industry, firm or individual seeking a review of the protection accorded to them should initially contact, in writing, the Secretary of the appropriate industry Department  Le.  in the case of manufacturing industry the Secretary, Department of Industry and Commerce, for primary industry the Secretary, Department of Primary Industry and for mining industry the Secretary, Department of National Resources. 
Any firm or industry seeking information or action on dumping matters should initially contact, in writing, the Secretary, Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
I have asked my Department to consult with other interested Departments to prepare a brief document along the lines requested in (3 ). 
For the information of honourable members I present the 1975-76 annual report of the Department of Industry and Commerce entitled  Industry and Commerce 1976. 
It is true that a number of reports that the Government is looking at the general area of tariffs consequent upon the devaluation last weekend have appeared. I make it very clear to the House that, as stated by the Prime Minister last Monday, it is not the intention of the Government to make any general, across the board reduction in tariff levels. The Government is determined that the competitive advantages of Australian manufacturing industry which have occurred as a result of the devaluation will remain as real advantages to that sector of Australian industry. As all honourable gentlemen know, many areas of Australian industry were in a parlous competitive position prior to the action taken last weekend. 
It is true, however, that the Government has under study at the present time the precise detail of the impact of devaluation upon the levels of assistance enjoyed by Australian industry at the present time. While it is not our intention to make any general, across the board tariff reductions, there are certain areas in which anomalies have been thrown up. Particularly high levels of protection are now enjoyed in areas in which there is not severe import competition. In that type of context the Government is looking at the detail of the impact of devaluation on current protection levels. It will continue to do so over the next week. As honourable gentlemen realise, this is an extraordinarily complicated problem. One should not talk about general, across the board tariff reductions because, quite apart from this being contrary to the intention of the Government, it is not the way to approach the situation as there are areas within the general tariff structure which throw up greater anomalies as a result of the devaluation than do other areas. 
I can assure the honourable member for Wakefield and all other honourable gentlemen that the Government's resolve to tackle the problem of inflation in Australia remains absolutely undiluted. Any suggestions that it has been diluted are quite incorrect. The honourable gentleman referred to the cost implications through increased tariff levels as a result of the devaluation. The Government is aware of them. As the Treasurer just said, and as I said earlier, the question of tariffs is under study at present. I will have to say again, as I said in answer to another question this morning, that prior to the devaluation the competitive position of large sections of manufacturing industry in Australia was extremely parlous. The employment prospects and the re-employment prospects of large numbers of Australians were also extremely parlous. If we were to squander in a general, indiscriminate manner the benefits in competitive terms of the devaluation, we would be doing very little towards stopping the increasing extent to which jobs and industry are being exported from Australia. 
My attention has been drawn to those newspaper reports. I am advised that the Prices Justification Tribunal has not up to the present time given any approvals for price increases in respect of cars. The specific vehicle manufacturer to which the honourable gentleman refers is included in that answer. The article suggesting that a price rise will become effective from 5 p.m. today is, on my information, absolutely incorrect. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Both the Royal Commission's Fourth Report and the IAC's report are presently under study and I expect to place a submission on both reports before Cabinet early in the new year. 
See(l) above. 
The Royal Commission has now completed its investigations. Its Sixth and final report on liquified petroleum gas has been presented to the Governor-General. 
Yes. 
No. The transfer pricing question is being considered in conjunction with the Government's examination of the Fourth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has before it recommendations of the Trade Practices Act Review Committee which relate to this matter. That Committee recommended that linked financiers be jointly liable with dealers in relation to defective products. The Molomby Committee Report on Consumer Credit also recommended similar action. Moreover, the general matter of consumer credit law is currently under examination by a Commonwealth/State Working Party on uniform credit laws. 
Any action proposed by the Government will be announced when it has fully considered the questions involved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Trade Practices Commission has investigated a number of particular complaints of untrue and misleading labelling and advertising of table margarine to see whether any action should be taken under the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act prohibiting misleading, deceptive or other specified conduct in advertising. 
In some cases the claims have been found not to be false or misleading in terms of the Trade Practices Act. In other cases the action taken by the Commission has resulted in claims being altered or discontinued. 
2 ) The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs cooperates regularly with the National Health and Medical Research Council on matters of mutual interest. However, this co-operation does not extend to examining particular cases of alleged false or misleading advertising of table margarine. Examination of these allegations is the responsibility of the Trade Practices Commission. The Commission would consult with the National Health and Medical Research Council, if appropriate, during its investigations of particular complaints. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commission's benefit/cost analysis of a National Dairy Herd Improvement Scheme was foreshadowed in its Report on the Dairy Industry of 23 October 1973. 
During its public inquiries on the Dairy Industry, the Commission received many submissions on the subject of dairy herd improvement. Later, a supplementary submission was prepared by the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry, which brought together data and views provided by State Departments of Agriculture and other organisations with a special interest in herd improvement. 
This integrated submission provided the basic information for the IAC s analysis. 
A list of witnesses to the Dairy Industry inquiry is contained in Appendix 1.2 of the Dairy Industry Report, and their requests and suggestions are contained in Appendix 1 .3 of that Report. 
-The honourable gentleman has drawn this matter to my attention on earlier occasions, as have some other honourable gentlemen. I should point out to him that administration of insurance legislation so far as the Commonwealth is concerned is the responsibility of my colleague the Treasurer. I shall discuss this particular matter which he raises with my colleague. I should make the general observation to the honourable gentleman that naturally at a time such as this such practices, if engaged in by companies, would have a very serious effect upon primary producers who have suffered loss and are waiting long periods for the settlement of claims. I should also remind the honourable gentleman that the entitlement of an insured person to the proceeds of an insurance policy is a matter of private contractual right and is a matter which can be pursued according to those private contractual rights by the individual concerned. The point I make simply is that a lot of these practices can be effectively responded to and effectively coped with by the individuals in question pursuing their rights through the civil courts. 
-My attention has not been drawn to the article to which the honourable gentleman referred, but I will say this: The impact of devaluation will be of enormous benefit to the tourist industry in Australia. I am very grateful that the honourable member for Robertson raised in his question the position of the tourist industry in Australia. He, in common with a lot of other members of this Parliament, has expressed very legitimate concern about the plight of the tourist industry in Australia. I am very pleased to say that all the information available to my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce, whom I represent in this place, is to the effect that the devaluation of the Australian dollar will mean more business for the Australian tourist industry. I think it is something for which all honourable gentlemen would be grateful. Nonetheless, I will look into the report to which he referred and try to furnish him with a detailed answer. My suspicion is that it is really a question of contractual arrangements between the individual tourists and the travel agency concerned and is not a matter on which the Government could take any action. 
For a number of years many base metal producing countries, including Australia, have accepted the London Metal Exchange as the world market for determination of prices for trading purposes. The Prices Justification Tribunal has exempted most Australian zinc producers from the need to notify price increases which occur in line with fluctuations at the London Metal Exchange. Therefore Australian domestic prices are based, to a very large extent, on the London Metal Exchange. Naturally, the London Metal Exchange prices, which are quoted in sterling, reflected higher prices in Australian dollars for traded metals as from 29 November. I should also mention that Australian dollar prices have also reflected the falling value of sterling which has occurred in recent years and particularly in recent months. But specifically I would say to the honourable gentleman that the reason that the increase has occurred without the prior approval of the Prices Justification Tribunal is that the Tribunal has exempted zinc producers from the need to notify price increases which follow fluctuations in the London Metal Exchange. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) To the best of my knowledge the following member countries impose a production levy on bauxite: the Dominican Republic, Guinea, Haiti, Jamaica and Surinam. 
Yes, we have studied the purpose of the levy, which is intended to help secure what those Governments regard as a reasonable Government take. In Australia, this function is performed by our taxation system; mining companies are subject to company income tax, royalties, payroll and other taxes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Pricing policy and the question of securing fair and reasonable returns from the exploitation, processing and marketing of bauxite and alumina for the economic and social development of member countries have been under active consideration within the Association for some time. No decision on a universally acceptable formula has yet been taken. 
2 ) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
Levy on Bauxite (Question No. 1302) 
-I have had brought to my attention some instances of people being concerned that this has occurred. I should like to make it very clear that, as the Prime Minister indicated immediately after devaluation, the Government would be extremely concerned if any re-sellers or importers were to take advantage of devaluation for the purposes of any unreasonable mark-ups. I think it has to be recognised that in circumstances such as this it is totally impossible and beyond the power of governments to prevent completely this type of thing from happening. We have taken some action in relation to the Prices Justification Tribunal. As I indicated last night, I conferred with the  Chairman  of the PJT yesterday afternoon. The Tribunal had been specifically requested to scrutinise carefully any price notifications which seek an adjustment on account of devaluatoin 
In the statement I made I also reminded companies that the Tribunal's power is not limited to a scrutiny of notifications but that also section 16 of the Prices Justification Act gives it the power to investigate a price increase made by a company, whether or not that company is required to notify price increases. I mention also, particularly in respect of small business, that consumers who feel that unjustified price increases have been made should report those complaints and concerns to their local consumer affairs bureau. The machinery in this area at a State level is quite extensive and I believe that consumers who have a worry that unreasonable price mark-ups are occurring in the small business area should take advantage of that facility and should made thencomplaints to that quarter. 
by leave- The Government has reviewed the tariff structure prevailing in Australia consequent upon devaluation of the Australian dollar. As a result of this review, the Government re-affirms that there will not be any general or across the board reduction in tariffs. It has, however, decided upon action in selected areas either to remove temporary assistance or to reduce tariff levels where such reductions will not have adverse effects on local industry. In reaching these decisions the Government has had in mind the difficult competitive position of Australian industry which has developed in recent years due to a combination of escalating domestic costs, exchange rate variations and some ill-considered indiscriminate tariff reductions. 
In determining the changes I am about to outline the Government has been particularly concerned to ensure that any undue inflationary effects from the tariff arising from devaluation are eliminated without adversely affecting the improved competitive position attained by Australian industry in consequence of the devaluation. Whilst for the reasons explained in this statement the Government has decided against general tariff adjustments the specific decisions taken and which I shall outline shortly affect approximately $2000m of Australia's imports and will make a significant contribution towards moderating import price increases following devaluation. 
As honourable members will be aware, there were massive increases in wage levels in Australia in 1974 and early 1975 relative to increases in wages taking place in our major trading partners, and, in particular, the United States of America and West Germany. These increases have had the effect of significantly reducing the competitive position of Australian industry. By way of illustration, in the last 6 years wages in Australia's manufacturing industry increased by 130 per cent compared with 53 per cent in the United States and 70 per cent in West Germany. 
In addition to the increases in wage levels in Australia compared to those occurring with our trading partners since December 1971, the value of the Australian dollar had prior to devaluation increased relative to that of the United States dollar, notwithstanding the devaluation by the Labor Government of 12 per cent in September 1974. Further, since December 1972 there has been also the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut of July 1973 and a number of other tariff reductions of considerable importance to particular industries. Taken together all these factors have resulted in a very considerable erosion in the competitive position of manufacturing industry since December 1972. 
According to estimates made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its 1975-76 annual report, the general competitiveness of the Australian import-competing sector, which essentially means manufacturing industry- as indicated by movements in a combined index of changes in Australia's exchange rate, the inflation rate in Australia compared with that in other countries and reductions in tariff protection and other assistance- declined by 17 per cent between 1970-71 and 1975-76. The reduction in competitiveness has had a major effect on employment in manufacturing industry which fell by almost 100 000 between May 1974 and the end of June 1976. This reduction has been compounded by the tendency of some sections of Australian manufacturing industry to move offshore in order to minimise the cost disadvantages involved in local manufacture. Only when viewed against these figures and developments can the notional increase in protection resulting from the recent devaluation of the Australian dollar be seen in its true and correct perspective. 
The Government is therefore firmly of the view that any attempt to offset fully the effect of devaluation in improving the competitive position of manufacturing industry by a general compensatory tariff cut would be unwise and very costly to industry confidence. In addition such an approach is not appropriate to a situation where the exchange rate is being administered on a flexible basis. The Australian dollar has already moved upwards since the new exchange rate arrangements were introduced. 
Whilst the protective consequences of a partial compensatory tariff cut would be less severe it would nonetheless introduce an element of great uncertainty at a time when industry confidence is so critical to economic recovery. Nevertheless, the Government is concerned that in some areas existing levels of assistance are now more than is necessary to permit industry to be competitive with imports and that a contribution to restraining the rate of inflation can be made by reducing selected areas of assistance. 
The Government has therefore decided to remove a number of temporary assistance measures. It is the Government 's intention that: 
As from to-morrow 8 December 1976, quantitative restrictions on completely built up passenger motor vehicles and tariff quotas on completely knocked down passenger motor vehicles will be removed. 
) The tariff quotas on galvanised steel sheet and the temporary duty on monochrome T.V. receivers and certain related electronic components will be removed as soon as the necessary tariff arrangements can be made. 
In relation to motor vehicles circumstances now permit the temporary restrictions to be removed. However, the Government reaffirms its policy that about 80 per cent of the domestic market will be preserved for the local industry. 
The Government is also satisfied that the other temporary assistance measures listed above can now be removed. However I should make it clear to the House that temporary assistance measures applying to footwear, clothing, textiles, and domestic appliances, files and rasps, fine papers, plywood and orange juice are not affected by these decisions. It was considered that removal of temporary assistance measures on these products at this stage might lead to a recurrence of disruption. 
I would remind honourable members that under the provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act no action to remove temporary assistance measures flowing from an interim IAC report can be taken without receiving a final report from the Commission. This restraint does not apply in respect of temporary assistance measures imposed following reports by the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
The Government has also decided to act on the IAC's report for Multilateral Trade Negotiations. This report was commissioned to provide a basis for possible tariff reductions in the context of those negotiations. It was received by the Government in January 1976 and has been under study in departments since then. It provides the basis for a wide range of tariff reductions which will have a cost saving effect. The IAC has stated in this report that, in making recommendations, its approach was not to recommend a reduction in duty if such a reduction appeared likely to have generally adverse effects on local industry. In its report the Commission found that: 
1 ) The British preferential margin could be eliminated by reduction of the general tariff rate for about 700 items. 
The British preferential margin could be reduced by reduction of the general tariff rate for about a further 100 items. 
Both British preferential and general tariff rates could be eliminated for about another 100 items. 
These tariff reductions will be implemented as soon as administratively possible but because of the wide range of tariff items covered, not all changes will be completed until 31 January 1977. Preliminary details of these changes will be available through customs houses as soon as possible. The Government has taken these concessionary measures as part of its economic package in order to modify possible cost increases and emphasises that the reduced rates are provisional. The rates may be confirmed or adjusted in the light of future circumstances. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Temporary Assistance Authority machinery is available in the event of any unforeseen disruption caused to local industries as a consequence of these tariff reductions. In total, these changes will affect in excess of 900 tariff items out of a total of about 2,750 items in the Customs Tariff. Imports of goods covered by these proposals total about $ 1,800m. Details of the IAC's report on the Multilateral Trade Negotiations will be released as soon as copies are available. 
The Government also considered the removal of primage duties. Primage duty is a customs duty separate from normal tariffs. It was introduced as a temporary revenue measure in the 1 930s and over the years it has been removed on an item by item basis as opportunities have arisen. Primage still applies to about 350 items in the tariff, generally at rates of either 3 per cent or 7 per cent  ad valorem.  Primage duty collected in 1975-76 was about $8.5m and it is estimated that total trade subject to primage is in the vicinity of $150m. Some primage duties will be removed as a result of the action now to be taken on the IAC's MTN report. The Government has decided to refer the remaining primage duties which are not covered by the actions outlined above or already under reference, to the IAC for study and report. 
In addition the Government will immediately examine those reports of the IAC currently held, in respect of which no decisions have been taken to determine whether any of those reports should be returned to the IAC for reassessment in the light of devaluation. When this examination has been completed a further statement will be made. The by-law system makes provision for duties to be waived on imported goods for which suitably equivalent goods are not reasonably available from Australian producers. A considerable proportion of Australian imports of capital equipment and producer materials enters under the customs by-law system. The operation of the customs by-law system will help ensure that the price effects of devaluation are not unnecessarily inflated by the tariff. 
I would like to point out to honourable members that, through the operation of the customs by-law system and because of the fact that a large number of tariff items provide for duty free entry, in excess of 60 per cent of Australia's imports enter duty free. In deciding against across the board changes in long term levels of assistance the Government noted that there were a number of areas where tariffs are considerably higher than the general level. As indicated in the Government's pre-election statements it is the Government's view that these areas of the tariff should be subject to close and continuing review. The Government, therefore, reaffirms that it will proceed with the tariff review program in accordance with the current timetable. This will ensure that those areas enjoying very high levels of protection will be subject to review. Decisions on tariff review reports will be taken in the light of the improved competitive position of Australian industry resulting from devaluation. 
I should make it very clear that the Government would be extremely concerned if any sections of manufacturing industry were to apply the benefits of devaluation towards wage settlements outside indexation principles. If evidence emerges that this is occurring the Government will not hesitate to refer the industries concerned to the IAC for early review and report. This approach will complement the action I have already foreshadowed in respect of surveillance by the Prices Justification Tribunal of any unjustified price increases following devaluation. The Government considers that the devaluation of the Australian dollar combined with the actions I have announced in relation to the tariff should ensure that the competitive position of Australian industry is restored without unnecessarily adding to inflationary pressures in the economy. 
I commend the statement to the House. I present the following papen 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The problem of the high duties imposed by the EEC on imports of canned fruit has been receiving the continuous attention of the Department of Overseas Trade, particularly since the United Kingdom, Australia's largest single market for canned fruit, decided to enter the EEC. Every opportunity has been taken in discussions with the EEC and the Governments of its Member States to pursue this question. The duty was the subject of discussion in five rounds of consultations held with EEC and British authorities between April 1972 and May 1974 concerning the effects of British entry to the Community on Australia's trade. Canned fruit was also one of the items for which Australia sought tariff concessions as compensation for the effect of EEC enlargement on our trade in negotiations under Article XXIV: 6 of the GATT. As a result of these negotiations, the EEC reduced its duties on canned pears by 2 per cent from 1 January 1975. 
Australia and the European Economic Community are signatories to the Tokyo Declaration of December 1973 which commits participating countries to engage in negotiations aimed at further liberalising tariff and non-tariff barriers in world trade. In the context of these negotiations, which are scheduled to conclude in 1977, Australia has made it clear that we regard reductions in agricultural trade barriers by our trading partners as an essential  quid pro quo  for any concessions by Australia. The high rates of duty on canned fruits in the EEC are certainly trade barriers which Australia will be seeking to have reduced within this round of multilateral trade negotiations. 
Canned fruit is one of the few major agricultural products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC for which the main form of protection is a fixed rate of duty. As noted above, a modest reduction in the duty on canned pears has already been achieved. However, Australia regards the duties on canned fruit as still very high especially as the EEC is only about 30 per cent self-sufficient in most of these items. Australia's trade negotiators will be giving emphasis to this point in the Geneva negotiations. The EEC canned fruit industry does not, in Australia's view, need the degree of protection which it presently enjoys. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics publishes data in respect of wage and salary earners employed in various industries. The changes in employment in the textiles, apparel and footwear industries, are set out below: 
The sex composition of the decrease in civilian employment was as follows: 
Any discrepancies are due to rounding. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) In deciding on a Budget allocation of $3m for the Australian Tourist Commission in 1976-77, the Government concluded that it would be appropriate for the States and the travel industry, who benefit directly from the activities of the Commission, to contribute up to Sl.Sm of this allocation. Approaches were made by me direct to the States and the travel industry but whilst they each expressed support for the work of the Australian Tourist Commission, they declined to contribute to its funding. 
In line with other authorities whose activities have been curtailed because of current economic conditions, the Australian Tourist Commission is carrying out its responsibilities for the promotion of Australia overseas as a tourist destination as effectively as it can. I am sure the honourable member will agree with me it is recognised both in Australia and overseas that the Tourist Commission undertakes its tasks with a high degree of professional efficiency. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Available information on measures which could restrict the importation of Australian cheese in countries affected by Australia's anti-foot and mouth measures relating to cheese is set out in the attached table. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Australia-Indonesia Business Co-operation Committee has advised that it is the policy of the Committee that information regarding bodies, companies or individuals which comprise the membership of the A.I.B.C.C. is not publicly divulged. The Committee nas also advised that this decision was taken for the purpose of maintaining commercial and corporate confidentiality. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided to Question No. 1284 which appeared in  Hansard  of '2 December on page 32 14. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
Statistics published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics for short-term visitor arrivals in Australia (excluding U.S. troops on R&amp; R leave for the years 1971 to 1975 were: 
in reply- I shall endeavour to be brief because, like the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  a quota is placed on my time in this debate. This has been a very interesting debate. I think it is appropriate for me to ask the House what precisely has been said. The first area at which I direct that question is the Opposition. Where does the Opposition really stand on the statement of government policy made last night? What precisely is the attitude of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to the declarations made by the Government last night regarding the position of Australian industry? The honourable member for Port Adelaide, to start with, cannot make up his mind whether the decision that was announced last night is going to damage or is going to be beneficial to the Australian car industry. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide ought to know, as a person interested in local industry in his own State, that the Government has made it very clear over a period of some months that it intends to preserve for the local car industry of Australia some 80 per cent of the domestic market. Perhaps the greatest gem of all that was produced by the honourable member for Port Adelaide was his statement that the 25 per cent tariff cut made in July 1973 cost only a few hundred Australian jobs. He said this very deliberately. It did not just slip out. It was not one of those frenzied responses to an irritating interjection. He said it quite deliberately. He said that it did not cost 100 000 jobs; it did not cost 10 000 jobs; it cost only a few hundred jobs. Maybe the honourable member for Port Adelaide, and other people who share the view that the honourable member expressed during this debate, have forgotten the text of a report issued in 1973 which dealt with recommendations to the Government regarding the 25 per cent tariff reduction. That report was issued by a committee chaired by the former  chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission. As I understand it, it was on the public record. This is the very committee on whose recommendations the then Government took the decision to reduce the tariff by 25 percent. 
That very committee, on whose recommendations the decision was taken, estimated that a 25 per cent tariff cut would cost 30 000 jobs over a full year. Its estimate was not a few hundred jobs as was mentioned by the honourable member for Port Adelaide, not even 10 000 jobs as was mentioned by the honourable member for Port Adelaide, but 30 000 jobs over a period of a year. That was not a figment of the imagination of someone who has highly protectionist attitudes. It was the very report of officials on whom the Government's own decision at the time was based. As I have said, the Committee estimated a reduction of 30 000 jobs as a result of the 25 per cent tariff cut. For the honourable member for Port Adelaide to suggest in this House that the 25 per cent tariff cut had no impact on jobs is absolute nonsense. 
There was reference to reports of the Industries Assistance Commission during this debate. I refer to page 78 of the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission for the year 1974-75. A table headed 'Notified Retrenchments in Manufacturing Industry due to Structural Change between 1 July 1973 and 30 June 1975' shows a total of 27 298 people. That is strangely close to the estimate of 30 000 people in the report of the committee on whose recommendations the Government's decision in July 1973 was based. So the suggestion by the honourable member for Port Adelaide, unfortunately echoed by other speakers in this debate, that the 25 per cent tariff cut had minimal employment implications flies in the face of all the advice available to the Government at that time and flies in the face of all understandingpsychological, economic, social and otherwiseof the industries affected by that decision. Undoubtedly the decision by the Government which was announced last night will be of enormous benefit to manufacturing industries in Australia. It will be of enormous benefit to labour intensive industries in Australia. It will give to those industries a confidence and an ability to invest and to re-employ that they have not had in Australia for many years. The Government makes no secret of that. It makes no apology for that. It will not be reluctant in saying that, because that is the reality of the decision. 
Understandably, honourable gentlemen who are interested in this subject have expressed a desire to have further details of the decision which the Government took regarding the recommendations of the IAC dealing with multilateral trade negotiations. Those details will be available within the next day or so. They will indicate to honourable gentlemen the precise detail and extent of the reductions in this area. The Government has never denied, since the decision to devalue the dollar was announced, that there would be cost implications so far as import prices were concerned. We do not deny that. We would never deny that. The effect of the decision announced last night will have some moderating impact on those price increases. It will have that moderating impact in concert with the enormous benefits to the competitive position of manufacturing industry in Australia. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  developed an argument that the entire non-competitiveness of Austraiian manufacturing industry in recent years has been due to revaluations of the Australian dollar. I do not want to do the honourable gentleman an injustice. He referred to the great bulk of the noncompetitiveness of Australian manufacturing industry. He looked a little concerned when I used the word 'entire*. I will say that the great bulk of non-competitiveness of manufacturing industry in recent years has been due to revaluations of the Australian dollar. In some measure I am not arguing with his proposition that revaluation of the dollar causes competitive problems for a local industry. Equally, devaluation of the Australian dollar improves the competitive position of the local industry. Once again I quote from a source on which he relied during his remarks, and that is the most recent annual report of the IAC tabled in this House. It referred to the competitive position of Australian manufacturing industry and indicated that according to a combined index, including currency variation, domestic cost pressures and tariff reductions, there had been a net decline over a period of something like 4 years - 
-I thank the honourable gentleman. Over 5 years there had been a decline of about 17 per cent. The truth is that the most significant movement of the 3 elements that make up that index during that period was the one thing from which the honourable member for Gellibrand and his colleagues want to run away. That is the enormous escalation of wage costs in Australia during that period. They want to run away from it. They will not face it. During the last 6 years average wage increases in 
Australia went up by 130 per cent, compared with 53 per cent - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no substance in the point of order. 
The sensitivity of the honourable member for Corio demonstrates very dramatically the fact that the Opposition refuses to face the implications for the competitiveness of Australian industry of wage escalations over the past few years. My quota has run out. I thank those honourable gentlemen who contributed to this debate. I commend to the House the statement of government policy last night. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In April this year the Government established a committee to review the Trade Practices Act. That committee reported last August and the report was immediately made public. This Bill implements certain recommendations of that committee. It is the intention of the Government that the Bill be exposed at this time to allow detailed examination of its provisions by all interested persons. We invite submissions on any aspect of the Bill. 
Restrictive Trade Practices and Mergers 
The Trade Practices Act will continue to deal with anti-competitive agreements, monopolisation, exclusive dealing, resale price maintenance and anti-competitive mergers. As I will outline later, this Bill makes some adjustments to the laws on these matters and, importantly, to the procedures for their administrative adjudication. However, the Government has accepted the recommendation of the review committee that the prohibition of price discrimination be repealed. That prohibition has worked to inhibit price flexibility, and has not encouraged competition. In fact the review committee stated that this law has actually been used as a pretext to abolish discounts and effectively raise prices. 
The law on anti-competitive agreements is altered by this Bill, substantially as recommended by the review committee. This should clarify the operation of the law. The test of restraint of trade- with its undesirable common law connotations- has been omitted. The previous differing tests of competitive effect has been eliminated in favour of a single test. The 
Bill prohibits collusive price agreements and collective boycotts. However, except for price agreements for goods, which are prohibited outright, these matters may be granted authorisation if a net public benefit is shown to exist. The Government has not adopted the recommendation of the review committee that price agreements for services be prohibited outright. In some service industries, price agreements may be considered analogous to the determination of wage and salary levels. 
The Bill recognises the special contribution of joint ventures to the economy of Australia. In particular, it recognises that joint decisions as to the marketing of the joint venture product- including pricing decisions- are often inseparable from the decision to establish the joint venture in the first place. Appropriate distinctions are made in the prohibition and authorisation sections of the Bill. In substance, the relevant question is now whether the joint venture as a whole substantially lessens competition in a market Even in that event a joint venture will still be able to seek authorisation on public benefit grounds. This Bill also places joint acquisition schemes in a more favourable position. Such schemes have played an important role in containing price increases to the consumer, particularly in retail industries. 
The law of monopolisation is clarified by this Bill. It makes it clear that only purposive conduct by a market dominating concern comes within the prohibition. It also states expressly that capital investment can never, of itself, constitute monopolisation. Section 47 of the Act, that is the general prohibition of exclusive dealing, has been restructured as recommended by the review committee. A distinction has now been drawn between normal commercial requirements contracts and requirements contracts which have been entered into for an anti-competitive purpose. The Bill provides immunity for exclusive dealing conduct notified to the Trade Practices Commission, until the Commission makes a positive determination that the conduct is both anti-competitive and without net public benefit. This procedure is available either as an alternative to, or in addition to, authorisation. The new procedure of notification for exclusive dealing recognises the concern of the business community as to the backwash of section 47 casting legal doubts on ordinary commercial contracts not intended to be dealt with by the Trade Practices Act. 
The Government has generally adopted the recommendations of the review committee concerning the use of land as a means of effecting restrictive trade practices. Those recommendations particularly related to the use of covenants running with the land and the use of leases and licences of land containing restrictive provisions. These matters are expressly included within the scope of this Bill. The present Act has been criticised as being unduly harsh on mergers involving the acquisition of small companies. For example, it has been criticised as severely ham.pering a small businessman seeking to sell his usiness and retire. It has also been criticised as being unnecessarily concerned with insignificant corporate acquisitions. This Bill provides a threshold test of $3m annual turnover by the company being acquired. Mergers involving the acquisition of companies with a lesser turnover would be exempted from the Trade Practices Act, unless the acquisition was part of a systematic pattern to acquire a number of companies in an industry. 
In addition the Bill implements the preelection undertaking of the coalition parties to remove the discretionary power of the Minister under the Act to compel the grant of the authorisation of a merger by the Commission. 
Commission Procedures for Restrictive Trade Practices 
Experience has shown that the clearance procedure provided by the present law has involved the Trade Practices Commission very closely in the daily operations of Australian business. Whatever justification this may have had in the early days of the legislation has now disappeared. To continue the clearance procedure would perpetuate unnecessary interference by Government in the exercise of individual initiative. This Bill abolishes the clearance procedure, except in relation to mergers, to which special considerations apply. The authorisation test in the present law has been widely criticised as unnecessarily harsh. The review committee recommended that the test be altered to reflect a simple balance between benefits and detriments to the public flowing from the conduct. The Government supports this simple, but highly desirable, change which will bring a better perspective to the application of trade practices aw. 
This Bill also provides a right for discussions with the Trade Practices Commission before the determination of authorisation applications or exclusive dealing notifications. The lack of direct contact between the Commission, applicants and other interested persons has been a major deficiency in the operation of the law to date. The availability of such discussions, which the review committee recommended should be a matter of right, is essential. Public hearings before the Trade Practices Commission in authorisation matters are abolished. The heavy cost of these hearings- both to parties and to the Commission itself- is not warranted. The possibility remains for a full public hearing before the Trade Practices Tribunal on appeal. 
Actions of Employees 
The present wide exemption for restrictive practices by employees is substantially modified by this Bill. The exemption is now to be limited to matters of remuneration, conditions of employment, and hours and working conditions. In addition, the Bill prohibits secondary boycotts by employees which substantially damage the business of a corporation. These boycotts have been used by some trade unions in this country to dictate the business arrangements of independent businessmen. In some instances these boycotts have resulted in higher prices to the consumer. The most common instance of a secondary boycott occurs where a group of employees collectively acts for the purpose of interfering with supply of goods and/or services by their employer to a company. 
Honourable members will be aware of instances of this occurring in respect of petrol and bread deliveries. In addition, it has occurred in the stevedoring industry where employees of a port authority have interfered with container deliveries to particular companies and most recently in Sydney where employees of a newsprint supplier interfered with deliveries to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd. Under the Bill, businesses affected will have a similar redress against employee secondary boycotts as they already have against boycotts organised by other companies. The Government recognises that some sections of the community might argue that provisions of this nature should be included in other Commonwealth legislation such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Government retains an open mind as to which legislation is the relevant one and will be particularly interested in submissions or comments it might receive on this issue. 
Consumer Protection 
The review committee recommended that the present provisions of Part V of the Act should generally continue to operate, subject to certain improvements. The Bill provides for these changes. The definition of consumer has been changed in a way which will give small businesses a measure of protection which they previously did not have. The conditions and warranties implied by Division 2 of Part V of the Act will now be implied into a wider range of transactions. The present Act is pointedly deficient in protecting consumers in land transactions.  Major abuses  have occurred in the past in relation to the promotion and sale of land- particularly major subdivisions promoted on an interstate basis. The Bill extends protection to the consumer in these matters. At present there is no quick method for the Government to ban the sale of unsafe consumer products produced in Australia. The marketing of unsafe products is a major concern of the community. Provision is now made in this Bill for the making of orders banning the sale of unsafe goods. 
The Government considers that the present sanctions and remedies for consumer protection contraventions are unsatisfactory. The Bill makes a number of important changes in this area. The penalty of imprisonment is abolished. More appropriate defences are provided. The court may now make a wider range of corrective orders designed to assist the consumer in a practical way. For example, the court may order affirmative disclosure, corrective advertising or repair of goods. The review committee recommended substantially greater involvement by State government agencies in the administration of the consumer protection part of the Trade Practices Act. It was considered that consumer complaints could best be handled on a local basis, through State consumer protection agencies and State courts. The Government is also of this view and is currently discussing the proposals in detail with State governments. In the meantime no provision has been made for these matters in the Bill. 
An area of major concern to Australian business has been the multiplicity of State and Commonwealth laws implying non-excludable terms into consumer transactions. The review committee considered this multiplicity to be a source of cost and confusion to Australian business. It recommended that the Commonwealth legislate in the area so as to cover the field to a significant degree. The Government has accepted this recommendation in principle and will naturally explore proposals for its implementation with State governments. Indeed, the recommendation has already been discussed by a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers. The review committee also recommended that the Trade Practices Act be extended to provide for manufacturers to be liable directly to consumers for breach of implied terms in consumer contracts. 
Some State laws already provide for such liability. The Government has accepted this recommendation in principle and is examining details of its implementation. 
Government Activities 
Governments are increasingly involved in commercial activities, often in direct competition with private enterprise. It is anomalous that the Trade Practices Act should apply to private enterprise and not to government enterprise of a commercial nature. The Government has decided in principle that its commercial operations should be subject to the same restraints of the Trade Practices Act as apply to like operations of private enterprise. It is recognised, however, that some exceptions on national interest grounds might have to be made to this general rule. At present an interdepartmental committee is examining the detailed implementation of this proposal. Appropriate provisions will be inserted into this Bill to give effect to this policy before the Bill is finally enacted. 
Other Matters 
The review committee made recommendations on a number of matters which are not contained in the present Bill and which I have not mentioned previously in this speech. I note, in particular, the recommendations on the rights of franchisees, the liability of financiers for breach of consumer conditions and warranties, and the application of the Act to professional activities. The Government has taken no decision on these matters, pending further study of them. In the case of professional activities there is an obvious question of constitutional power. This is a matter which will need to be discussed with State governments. At the start of this speech I indicated that this Bill has been introduced at this time to allow study of its provisions by interested persons and members of this Parliament. I emphasise that the Government does not intend to rush into amending this technical legislation without adequate consultation with and study by the community. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
The latest Balance of Payments statistics supplied by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that in 1975-76 overseas short-term visitors in Australia spent $255m on travel. 
There is no satisfactory criteria for the ranking of travel credits in the way suggested. It is, however, relevant to note that the $255m spent on travel amounted to 2.2 per cent of total balance of payments credits. 
According to research undertaken by the Australian Tourist Commission approximately one quarter of expenditure by overseas visitors in Australia takes place outside of the capital cities. 
Since coming to office the Government's priorities have been to reduce inflation and to restore business confidence. In order to achieve these objectives, all areas of Government spending were subjected to careful scrutiny. While it has been necessary to restrain expenditure on tourism programs, the Government believes the interests of the nation can best be served by restoring economic stability. As with other industries, the future of tourism in Australia hinges on the achievement of these objectives. 
Pursuant to section 48 of the Export Market Development Grants Act 1 974, 1 present the first annual report of the Export Development Grants Board for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's decision on this matter will be announced during the current sitting of Parliament. 
None. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows; 
to (5) The information requested on duty increases arising from the 1976 review of the system of tariff preferences for developing countries has been set out below in three tables, which provide a list of all tariff items affected, together with relevant rates of duty and import statistics for 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
The three tables differentiate between goods on which the Developing Country rate of duty has been increased but which still enjoy a tariff preference; goods on which the Developing Country rate of duty was increased to the General Tariff; and goods which remain in the system of tariff preferences but for which some developing countries were excluded from preference on 1 July 1976. 
The explanatory notes in the tables show that on the basis of Australian imports in 1973-74, trade from developing countries actually subject to increased duties resulting from the 1976 Review was valued at about $23.3m. However, on the basis of 1975-76, imports of the same products had almost doubled to $4 1 .  1 m. 
It is not expected that the value of imports from developing countries will decrease as a result of the duty increases. 
There are no fixed criteria for determining whether a country should be a beneficiary under the Australian system of tariff preferences for developing countries. However the following factors are taken into account: the country's desire to be a beneficiary; the country's level of economic development; the practice of other preference-giving countries in respect of that particular country. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following is an outline of the DISC system and its general operations. For obvious reasons information is not available on individual DISC transactions in the agricultural field. 
The United States Domestic International Sales Corporations (DISC) legislation was passed as part of the U.S. Revenue Act of 1971 with the objective of increasing U.S. exports and improving its balance of payments by placing U.S. exporters on a ' more equal tax footing with their foreign competitors'. 
DISCs are legal accounting enterprises which usually acquire ownership of export property from parent or affiliated companies and then sell the property abroad. To qualify as a DISC, a United States corporation must meet certain requirements, e.g. that it be a U.S. domestic corporation, that 93 per cent of the corporation's gross receipts for each taxable year consist of 'qualified export receipts' and that 93 per cent of the corporation's assets at the close of the taxable year be 'qualified export assets'. There are special intercompany pricing rules governing the allocation of export sales income between a parent company and the related DISC. 
A DISC is not subject to United States federal income tax on its current or retained export earnings, with the qualification that one half of the earnings is deemed distributed to the shareholders of the DISC and is taxable to those shareholders as a dividend. 
It has been estimated that there are currently over 8000 DISCs in existence and that about 70 per cent of total U.S. exports in 1975 were traded through them. The latest figures available show that in the accounting period from 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1974 tax deferred on SUS3.1 billion of income earned by DISCs amounted to $US756m. The largest product categories of exports handled by DISCs are in the agricultural, chemical, machinery and equipment areas. Exports of agricultural products traded by DISCs are given under two main categories, viz. (i) grain/soybeans and (ii) other agricultural products. In the latest available  year  (1974) DISC exports of grain/soybeans comprised 94 per cent of total U.S. grain/soybeans exports. DISC exports of other agricultural products comprised 46 per cent of total U.S. exports of these products. 
The DISC scheme was challenged in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade on its introduction on the grounds that it constituted an export subsidy and was in breach of U.S. obligations under the GATT. A GATT Panel of experts appointed to examine complaints about the DISC reported on 2 November 1976 that there was a prima facie case ofnullification or impairment of benefits which other GATT member countries were entitled to expect under the General Agreement. The Panel's report is expected to be the subject of bilateral discussions with the United States as well as further discussions in the GATT itself. The Australian Government is watching developments closely to ensure that Australian trade interests are safeguarded from any trade distorting effects of DISC. 
Appointments to the United Nations Secretariat (Question No. 1659) 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Australia  
Nil. 
The Commonwealth Development Bank provides finance for the establishment or development of undertakings providing accommodation or transportation for tourists or other facilities designed to attract tourists. The loans are directed towards assisting smaller undertakings away from main assisting population. 
Section 51(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act provides that any expense necessarily incurred in the gaining or producing of assessable income shall be an allowable deduction provided it is not an expense of a private or capital nature. Additionally, this Government has introduced a 40 per cent investment allowance for eligible plant and equipment on site or ready for installation from 1 January 1976 and up to 30 June 1978. In each of the 5 years following 1977-78 the allowance will be at the rate of 20 per cent per annum. A unit of property which costs $500 or less does not attract the allowance. 
People from other countries are encouraged to travel to and within Australia by the Australian Tourist Commission. The Commission has an appropriation of $3m for this purpose in 1 976-77. (Note: In addition to the above, State Governments also provide various forms of assistance to the travel/tourist industry.) 
Other Countries: Up to date information on assistance provided to the travel/tourist industries in New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, the Philippines, Singapore and Indonesia is being obtained by the Department of Industry and Commerce and will be passed to the honourable member as soon as possible. In the meantime, I am writing to the honourable member providing him with information which is currently held on file in the Department. 
White Paper on Manufacturing Industry (Question No.  1466) 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Government is currently considering an advanced draft of the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry. 
The Government hopes soon to be in a position to make an announcement on specific timing for the presentation of the White Paper to Parliament. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer as provided by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to question No. 1284 at page 3214 in the House of Representatives' Hansard of 2 December 1976. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Tariff quotas were introduced on knitted and woven man-made fibre fabrics in December 1974 in accordance with recommendations ofthe Textiles Authority and following report by the Industries Assistance Commission respectively. However, under tariff quota arrangements there is no absolute limit on the quantities which may be imported at full rates of duty. 
The tariff quota system applying to a wide range of textile and apparel items including knitted and woven man-made fibre fabrics was reviewed by the Government earlier this year and it was decided to continue, to 28 February 1 977, the tariff quota arrangements currently applying at that time with some increases in tariff quota levels. 
These tariff quota arrangements are intended to ensure that the industry sectors concerned are protected from damage from excessive levels of imports and to ensure that reasonable stability of production and employment is maintained pending decisions on the long term assistance measures for those industry sectors. Decisions on these long term assistance measures will be taken by the Government when it receives final reports from the Industries Assistance Commission on current references covering these industry sectors. 
Zora Fashions is in receipt of a tariff quota allocation to import a quantity of both knitted and woven man-made fibre fabric in the current quota period at the by-law rate of duty. 
The company requested an increased tariff quota allocation to enable it to import additional quantities of man-made fibre fabrics at the by-law rate of duty. In the administration of the quota arrangements the allocation of additional tariff quota for fabric is considered where it can be established that fabrics suitable for a particular manufacturing requirement are not readily available from local sources of supply. However an increase could not be authorised at the tune of the company's application since there exists within the local industry a ready availability of fabrics similar to those required by Zora Fashions (International) Pty Ltd. 
As indicated in ( I) above a similar system of tariff quotas applies to a wide range of mens' and womens' and childrens ' apparel. 
See(3)above. 
See (3)above. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The following schedule provides details of amounts approved in the fiscal years prior to 1975-76, and expenditure as at 6 December, 1976, against those approvals. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes; Australian Mining and Smelting Limited, Tubemakers of Australia Limited and Blue Circle Southern Cement Limited. 
The Industries Assistance Commission received evidence from Australian Mining and Smelting Limited at its inquiry into the Petroleum and Mining industries (report dated 28 May 1976). The Company's public evidence was given in Canberra on Tuesday, 8 July 1975. 
The Commission has received evidence from Tubemakers of Australia Limited at its current inquiry into the Iron and Steel Industry. Public evidence by this company was given in Sydney on Thursday, 8 July 1 976. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal held a public inquiry in October 1974 into proposed higher prices to be charged by Blue Circle Southern Cement Limited (report dated 29 November 1974). Since the Tribunal commenced operations in August 1973 it has processed a total of 17 notices of higher prices for cement supplied by the company. 
Over the same period the Tribunal has processed 28 notices of higher prices for various steel products supplied by Tubemakers of Australia Limited, but has not held a public inquiry into this company. 
The Tribunal has had little need to seek information of any special nature from Australian Mining and Smelting Limited which has operated under the terms of an exemption order since September 1973 (E73/1S8 published in Gazette No. 125 of 1 1 September 1973 and re-published in Gazette No. 17b of 22 February 1974). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy guidelines which the Industries Assistance Commission is required to adopt are set out in Section 22 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act. Among the guidelines set out there, the Commission is required to have regard to the desire of the Government to improve and promote the well-being of the people of Australia with full employment This objective must, of course, be reconciled with a number of other objectives. 
Furthermore, in order to ensure that the Government's decisions on assistance are based on the fullest possible information on the social and locational effects, I asked in April this year that the Commission report explicitly on the probable consequences, social and otherwise, of changing existing levels of tariffs or assistance. 
The Commission assesses the likely effects of its recommendations upon employment in the particular industry under review and other industries related to it. The Commission relates its recommendations for reduction in assistance to the economy's ability to sustain any structural changes that will result. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I have noted claims that prices being charged for motor vehicle spare parts by some resellers appear to be unduly high and I have requested the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal to advise me what action might be taken. 
In this regard, the function of the Prices Justification Tribunal is to determine whether prices charged or proposed to be charged by companies are justified and, if not, what lower prices would be justified. 
Apart from the Tribunal's power to examine prices proposed to be charged by those companies which are required under the legislation to notify their prices, the Tribunal also has a general power to inquire into prices charged by any company irrespective of its size. 
Prices charged by non-incorporated enterprises such as partnerships or sole proprietorships are outside the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Thus, prices charged for motor vehicle spare parts by such resellers would not be subject to surveillance by the Tribunal. 
From a trade practices viewpoint it is relevant to this matter that although the practice of fixing minimum resale priceis unlawful, the fixing of maximum resale prices is not Accordingly, it is open to manufacturers and importers of motor vehicle spare parts to establish maximum prices for the resale of their products. It is also open to individual insurance companies to unilaterally refuse to deal with those suppliers of motor vehicle spare parts whom they consider to be charging excessive prices. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The possibility of such an agreement was raised informally by United States Government officials with Australian Government representatives in Washington. 
It has been decided not to enter into negotiations with the Government of the United States of America in relation to this possible agreement. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In answer to an earlier question from the honourable member on this matter,  Mr Anthony  advised that he intended to raise with New Zealand Ministers the concern of the Australian Government that imports of cheddar cheese from New Zealand be conducted under conditions of fair trade. This was done in September this year and an assurance was given by New Zealand Ministers that their Government was aware of the need to strictly comply with the regulations in respect of the operation of the cheddar cheese quota. The Department of Overseas Trade in conjunction with the Bureau of Customs, Department of Business and Consumer Affairs is currently undertaking a close study of the situation with a view to ensuring that imports of cheddar cheese from New Zealand do not exceed the annual quota. 
The question of whether Easy Cheese should be classified as cheddar for purposes of the NAFTA cheddar cheese import quota is also under examination by officials. Official statistics for 1975-76 show imports from New Zealand of cheddar cheese of 591 tonnes and processed cheddar cheese of 562 tonnes. Imports of Easy Cheese are not separately recorded in official statistics. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission entitled 'Multi-lateral Trade NegotiationsGeneral Rates of Duty- First Report'; a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on agricultural tractors; an interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on fabrics for use as bed sheeting, pillow casing or bolster casing; and a report by the Textiles Authority on sheets, curtains, etc. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) are answered in the following table: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The proposals in the Commission's draft report on Bags and Sacks and Certain Polyolefin Fabrics are its responsibility The Government will be considering its attitude towards long-term assistance measures for this industry in the light of the Commission's final report which has yet to be submitted to the Government. The Government is particularly conscious of the economic, social and locational consequences of Commission recommendations for the textiles and related industries- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Particular attention is paid to imports of products which are under anti-dumping inquiry by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. Shipments of such products are continually and closely monitored by the Department and, where appropriate, investigations are undertaken both locally and overseas to determine whether or not the goods are being dumped on the Australian market. 
Under the temporary assistance provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act, before the Government can take action to restrain imports a report must be received from the Temporary Assistance Authority that such action is required. The Temporary Assistance Authority must report within thirty days of the receipt of a reference from the Minister and, other than monitoring imports, no action can be taken by the Government until the report is received. 
The Australian Statistician has advised that he cannot supply particulars of imports of either easycheese or pack apple as these commodities are not separately recorded in Australian import statistics. The Statistician has also advised that import statistics for parts of months are not available. He has, however, supplied the following information on imports of edam and gouda cheese recorded during November 1 976: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government is discussing with the States its proposals for a co-operative Commonwealth/ State scheme for legislation and administration in the fields of company law and the regulation of the securities industry. It is considered that this new scheme, if implemented, would assist in the detection of corporate crime, particularly with the establishment of the Government's proposed National Corporations and Securities Commission (NCSC) which will be particularly effective in respect of corporate crime involving more than one state. 
Corporate crime, like any other type of crime, cannot be eliminated completely. However, possible legislative amendments that might assist in further reducing the incidence of corporate crime are  always  under consideration. Any specific proposals that involved amendments to the provisions contained in the existing companies and securities laws would, of course, need to be discussed with the States. 
It would be inappropriate to disclose any particular proposals that may be under consideration in advance of their consideration by the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) On 24 December 1976 the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Robert  Cotton, and I jointly announced that the Government had decided to introduce a revised bounty scheme for agricultural tractors with effect from 1 January 1977. The introduction of this new scheme follows the termination on 31 December 1976 of the period to which the  Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act  1966 applied. Legislation to give effect to the new bounty scheme will be introduced into the Parliament in the Autumn session 1977. Arrangements have been made for the payment of the bounty at the proposed rates with effect from 1 January 1977. 
The Industries Assistance Commission has provided me with the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) A member of the staff of the Industries Assistance Commission did visit Wangaratta in the period referred to. 
to (4) The visit was part of a general study to consider the effects of assistance on decentralised industries and the social and economic effects on the towns in which they are located. For this purpose, Wangaratta was selected for study in view of the information already available to the Commission and its importance as a centre for decentralised industry. 
The organisations contacted were selected by the Industries Assistance Commission in conjunction with State and local Government authorities. 
to ( 10) The visit was essentially for the purpose of collecting data which will become part of a more general study by the Commission. The study was not undertaken as part of the normal public inquiry procedure of the Commission, and it is not therefore proper that those respondents contacted should be published, nor is it appropriate that the staff of the Commission or their qualifications should be nominated. The processing of the results of the initial survey in Wangaratta will involve a number of staff members in the Commission, and the results will be incorporated in subsequent Commission publications only after these have been considered by the Commission itself. 
The three companies nominated by the member for Indi were not contacted because the Commission believed that it already had sufficient information available to it through its normal industry inquiry machinery, and it would be an unnecessary duplication and imposition at this stage to seek similar information from those companies. 
The information sought by the Commission is essentially factual relating particularly to the industries in the town and the social and economic conditions in which they operate. However the Commission would be happy to receive any submission from the honourable member. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The action announced in my statement to the House on 7 December 1976 concerning selective tariff reductions and the removal of certain import restrictions was consistent with the provisions of the  Industries Assistance Commission Act. 
See(l). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The term 'polyunsaturated' margarine is defined by the National Health and Medical Research Council as table margarine in which the total fatty acids present contain not less than 40 per cent cismethylene interrupted polyunsaturated fatty acids and not more than 20 per cent saturated fatty acids. Under the New Zealand Food and Drug Regulations the same definition has been adopted. Canadian regulations provide for at least 25 per cent cismethylene interrupted polyunsaturated fatty acids and not more than 20 per cent saturated fatty acids. Information about other countries is not available from the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Yes, so long as these terms are not used in such a way as to be false or misleading in contravention of the Trade Practices Act or State or Territory consumer legislation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Visualtek devices. Normal rate of import duty on these devices is 30 per cent. However, when imported by governing bodies of public institutions having the care of the blind they are admitted free of duty. Importations by other bodies or individuals are considered for duty free admission under Customs by-law on application being made to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
Opticon devices. Free of import duty. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1) Prior to the cessation of the tourism grants scheme in February 1976 there were no tourism grant allocations to the Division of Macarthur. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on brassieres, and copper foil etc., together with an interim report of the IAC on files and rasps. 
When I read the notice paper for today's sitting I thought for one moment that at long last the Opposition might be prepared to address its mind to the fundamental problem which faces manufacturing industry in Australia. To my recollection, this is the first occasion in 13 months on which the Opposition has shown any formal concern at all for the problems facing Australian manufacturing industry. But, having listened to the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  having listened to him use his 15 minutes as an opportunity to make generalised and emotional attacks on the Government in order to draw attention to the problems of unemployment-they are problems of which the Government is very conscious- we then heard the honourable member conclude his remarks by berating the Government for failing to face the problem besetting manufacturing industry. I believe, and the Government believes, that the great problem of manufacturing industry in Australia at the present time is a problem of competitiveness, and until such time as the competitiveness of manufacturing industry in Australia is restored and until such time as the entire community recognises the extent to which this country has priced its way out of world markets and the extent to which the domestic cost structure in this country has created difficulties for its import competing industries as well as its export industries- until that realisation come to all sections of the Australian community which are involved in, affected by and concerned with manufacturing industry- the great problem of the industry is not going to be solved. 
Of course, the percentage of people employed in manufacturing in Australia has declined very sadly over the last five or six years, and the Opposition must bear its very full share of the blame for that decline. Honourable members opposite know, as do honourable members on this side of the House, that the total number of people employed in Australian manufacturing industry declined by 100 000 between May 1974 and July 1976. That was a decline of 100 000 in a period of little over 2 years. They also know that in the 5 years between 1970 and 1975 average wages in Australian manufacturing industry increased by 123 per cent, compared with a 50 per cent increase in West Germany and a 73 per cent increase in the United States. Those figures demonstrate better than any the massive decline in competitiveness which has occurred in Australian manufacturing industry. It is no use the Opposition pretending that it has an alternative solution that does not recognise the problem of uncompetitiveness in Australian manufacturing industry. Until that realisation comes to its own supporters, until that realisation comes fully to all of those involved in sections of manufacturing industry, we are not going to have any lasting solutions to the particular problems of that industry. 
There is no way that considerations of wage restraint, productivity and good industrial relations can be separated from consideration of the problems of manufacturing industry in Australia at the present time. Those 3 issues will underpin recovery in manufacturing industry if the right policies are adopted towards the solution of the problems in those 3 areas. From the time this 
Government came into office it has pointed to the inflationary effects of the unrestrained wage growth that occurred, particularly in 1974 and the early part of 1975. This Government has never made any apology for pointing to that growth. It has never shirked its responsibility to say to the Australian people: 'You will not have economic recovery, a revival of manufacturing industry and thus re-employment of people and retention of people already employed unless you make your industries more competitive. You cannot make them more competitive if you continually bloat the cost structure of your local industries'. That is what occurred in a massive way between 1972 and 1975, and that is what would occur if the wages policies still, as late as today, espoused by the Opposition were adhered to. That is why the Government attaches such tremendous importance to wage restraint as an element in bringing about economic recovery and particularly in bringing about sustained recovery and growth in the import competing sector of Australian industry. 
Perhaps the other illustration of the extent to which the Opposition refused to face the basic problem of manufacturing industry is the rather glib way in which it dealt with unemployment when in government. We all are concerned about the problems of people who are unemployed. This Government will yield to nobody so far as practical demonstrations of that are concerned. But the fact of the matter is that the greatest blow struck to employment in manufacturing industry over the past 10 years occurred in 1973 through the previous Government's indiscriminate reduction in tariffs by an across-the-board figure of 25 per cent. In this House last December the analysis given by the Opposition spokesman on manufacturing, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who has now left the chamber, of the employment consequences of the 25 per cent tariff cut was that it probably cost 200 or 300 jobs and no more. Yet the very document on which the then Government's decision was based estimated that the total number of people who could be affected by that tariff reduction would be of the order of 30 000. That figure was verified by notified retrenchment information given to the then Department of Manufacturing Industry by manufacturing industry affected by that tariff cut. 
It is impossible to isolate the economic problems of any sector of Australian industry from the general economic problems of this country. It is impossible to talk about economic recovery being sustained without talking about the problems of wage escalation and inflation and the industrial problems this country has. It is very intriguing to hear a reference to the 1945 commitment to full employment that was made by the Chifley Labor Government. That Government did make a commitment to full employment- a commitment that remained fulfilled by successive governments until the Whitlam Government came to office in 1972. The record speaks for itself. For that period of 20 years during which sensible economic policies were pursued the commitment to full employment made in 1945 was essentially discharged. 
I take the opportunity that this debate presents to inform the House of a number of decisions taken by the Government earlier this week regarding the operations of the Temporary Assistance Authority. As honourable members will be aware, the Temporary Assistance Authority is governed by the provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act and essentially, but not exclusively, deals with the short term import problems of our import competing industries. Honourable members will be aware that the Government has had the operations of the Temporary Assistance Authority under review for some weeks. I am now in a position to announce to the House during this debate details of the changes that the Government has made. In doing so, I remind the House of the commitment contained in our November 1975 policy statement dealing with manufacturing industry, namely, that we would maintain an efficient emergency procedure to provide prompt temporary assistance to safeguard industries from damage by undue import competition and that, as necessary, we would amend the Industries Assistance Commission Act. 
I make it quite clear at the outset that the effect of these amendments will be to provide both the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Government with greater flexibility in dealing with requests for temporary assistance. They will confirm the role of the TAA as the principal, although not only, body dealing with cases involving requests for temporary assistance. These decisions are quite consistent with the policy of the Government that industry assistance, temporary or long term, will not be granted without the benefit of prior investigation and report by either the IAC or the TAA. I should add in this context that one of the amendments decided upon by the Government is to make it mandatory that any inquiry by the TAA be conducted in public. 
Details of the changes in their particularity are as follows: Firstly, the Act will be amended to provide that in future the Temporary Assistance 
Authority will be able to recommend to the Government any form of assistance it considers appropriate. That is the current position in respect of recommendations of the IAC, whereas at the present time the TAA is limited to recommendations concerning tariffs and import restrictions only. Secondly, the present requirement in the Act that a reference be sent automatically to the Industries Assistance Commission in the event of the TAA recommending emergency assistance will be modified. In future, under the amendments, temporary assistance recommended by the Authority and granted by the Government will not continue for a period of more than 12 months without review by either the IAC or the TAA and, in addition, any industry which receives temporary assistance for a total period of 2 years within any period of 4 years will automatically be referred to the IAC for a long term report. Furthermore, the TAA will be required to recommend whether an immediate reference should be given to the IAC on the long term assistance required by the industry. 
In addition the provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act which deal with the circumstances in which a reference for temporary assistance should be sent to the Authority will be amended to incorporate in the relevant section of the Act words to the like effect of those contained in Article 1 9 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Fourthly, the Government also will amend the Industries Assistance Commission Act to provide the Government with the same flexibility in dealing with recommendations of the TAA as apply in respect of recommendations by the IAC. This change will mean that upon receipt of a report from the TAA the Government may not only accept, reject or partially adopt the recommendations of the Authority but also take any other action it thinks fit in the circumstances. 
There are a number of other subsidiary amendments which time precludes me from mentioning. The purpose of my announcing these decisions in this debate is to indicate in a practical way the manner in which the Government is prepared to respond to the particular problems of an area of Australian industry without in any way compromising the essential principles on which the industry assistance policy of this Government is based. Those principles contain, amongst other things, the maintenance of a process of independent and open inquiry and a system whereby government decisions are not taken without that process of open and independent inquiry having been utilised. 
I believe, and the Government believes, that these changes to the temporary assistance procedures of the Industries Assistance Commission Act are an intelligent response to the deficiencies that exist under the Act. I believe that they will be seen as being of practical assistance to solving particular problems without in any way departing from the basis on which our industries assistance policy is predicated. The changes are another illustration of the practical concern of this Government for the continuing problems of manufacturing industry in Australia. I will conclude where I began. Essentially the problems of manufacturing industry in this country are problems of competitiveness, and until such times as the entire community accepts and realises these basic problems the long term future of manufacturing industry will continue to be difficult. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
I would like very quickly to respond to the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who raised the question of the adequacy of the staff of the Customs Bureau to deal with the documentation concerning imports into Australia. The honourable member was not very specific and it is therefore difficult for me to respond in precise terms but I will have his remarks analysed and respond to him by letter as soon as possible. I would make 3 observations. Firstly, I assure the honourable member and the House that the application of staff ceilings has fallen no more heavily on any particular part of the Public Service than it has on any other part. Insofar as the sections in my own Department and the statutory authorities within my own administration are concerned, there has been no design to single out any section for unfair treatment. I believe that the job of the staff in the Customs Bureau in this area is difficult. I believe the staff members perform their functions in an extremely capable manner. I appreciate the spirit in which the honourable member raised this matter. Naturally the Government would be concerned if the type of matters to which the honourable member referred were occurring. I will certainly have a look at the matter and respond to him in greater detail. 
House adjourned at 11.2 p.m. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 1 (1977). 
Customs TariffProposals No. 2 ( 1977). 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on clothing and certain man-made fibres, yarns and fabrics. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask for leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain tariff proposals which were moved last year and which constitute part of Order of the Day No. 34. These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 and the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill 1976 which have now been assented to. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report referred to contained recommendations dealing with some 900 items in the tariff, and it will not therefore surprise the honourable gentleman if I say in reply mat I cannot recall the details of each of those 900 items without referring to the IAC report. I will investigate the query that the honourable gentleman has raised. If there has been any error 1 will give consideration to any consequential action that ought to be taken. I should point out to the honourable gentleman that subsequent to the decision of the Government as announced on 7 December regarding the adoption of the IAC recommendations on the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, it was ascertained that to implement all the recommendations might have breached certain bilateral trading arrangements enjoyed by this country with other countries. In consequence a further statement was issued indicating that some of the 900 items on which action had been foreshadowed on 7 December had been excluded from that action because of our trading obligations. It may be that the items to which the honourable gentleman refers fall within the category of those items subsequently excluded. If that is the case, that is the explanation, but I will check the specific items mentioned and I will be more than happy to advise the House. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Commonwealth has not allocated any grant funds to Old Sydney Town Pty Ltd. The former Labor Government purchased a 25.5 per cent shareholding in the Company in May 1974 for $317,028 and the Commonwealth subsequently advanced loans totalling $2.05m. The agreement between the Commonwealth and New South Wales 
Governments provides for the transfer by the Commonwealth, free of consideration, its shareholding and loan interests, in return for which the New South Wales Government has agreed to assume governmental support of the project. 
It is not considered appropriate to divulge details of financial dealings between the Company and its shareholders or creditors. However I understand that the New South Wales Government has reached a satisfactory agreement with the other shareholders and has advanced sufficient funds to the company to pay off its creditors. 
Prior to the discontinuation, in February 1976, of a Commonwealth scheme of financial assistance for the development of tourist attractions and facilities, approximately $3.9m had been allocated to such projects in all States since the scheme commenced in 1972-73. As stated in (1) above no grant funds were allocated to Old Sydney Town. 
Prior to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  leading for the Opposition, I seek leave of the House to make a short statement on the manner in which the Government wishes to handle the debate on this legislation. 
The honourable member, as is his wont on occasions, used some very colourful language about people being taken to the cleaners. The petrol consuming public of New South Wales are being taken to the cleaners at the present time through the existence in that State of black bans by the Transport Workers Union on the delivery of discount petrol to discount sites. There is some legislation before this Parliament which might have some consequence in that regard and I will be very interested to see whether the honourable member for Hawker votes in favour of that legislation. I will be very interested to see what attitude the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions publicly takes to that legislation, given the professed concern of the Party he leads for legislation to ensure effective competition. This is a situation were the  President  of the ACTU does not wear 2 hats- he wears 3 hats, because his organisation has a commercial interest in the methods and the practices of marketing petroleum not only in Victoria but also in New South Wales. The fact is that ACTU-Solo Enterprises is itself a victim of that very same black ban. So one will await with some interest the attitude that the Opposition takes and more specifically the attitude that the  President  of the ACTU takes on this legislation. 
The honourable member knows, as indeed do other honourable members on this side of the House who have taken a very deep interest in the problems of petroleum marketing, that I have over the last 4 weeks had lengthy discussion with representatives of re-seller organisations throughout Australia and with representatives of every major oil company throughout Australia, and that on Friday I will be meeting representatives of ACTU-Solo Enterprises. This Government has a deep commitment towards a marketing policy which will provide the Australian consumers with petrol at the lowest possible price. The petroleum industry is a very complicated mechanism. An understanding of the nature of the petroleum industry and the policies which are required to bring about the cheapest possible delivery of petrol to the Australian consumers are not assisted by extravagant rhetoric of the type indulged in by the honourable member. 
For the information of honourable members I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on the following subjects: 

 Calcium Carbide. 


 Soaps and Detergents, Etc. 


 Commercial Motor Vehicles, Parts and Accessories: Interim Report on Short Term Assistance. 


 Electric Motors, Generators and Rotary Converters. 


 Watt Hour Meters- (Developing Country Preferences). 

in reply- In closing the debate I want to reply specifically to the point that was raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who has a specific complaint about the mechanism for the MTN tariff reductions. I draw the attention of the honourable gentlemen to the wording of my statement to be found at page 3412 of  Hansard  of 7 December 1976 in which I made it perfectly clear that details of the tariff items would not be completed until 3 1 January 1977. Whilst I Will examine the specific complaint raised by the honourable member, it was made perfectly clear in that statement that the details would not be available until the end of January. As a consequence, it should have been some notice that one should proceed with caution until such time as the precise details are available. I thank all honourable members who contributed to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 30 June 1977 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs 
TariffProposals 1 to 5 introduced into the Parliament last Tuesday and not enacted to date. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collection of duties in pursuance of Customs TariffProposals is protected against legal challenge for 6 months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever occurs first. The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill which will formally enact the tariff changes contained in the Proposals. 
It is anticipated a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill will be introduced during the autumn session to cover the Proposals included in this Bill. Honourable members will have a further opportunity at that time to debate the Proposals or any general questions of Government tariff policies. Full details of the changes concerned were supplied to honourable members at the time of introduction of the relevant Tariff Proposals. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
-The honourable gentleman is even more naive than honourable members on this side of the House have come to believe. I have no intention of disclosing to him the contribution and views that I have expressed during Cabinet discussions on this matter. I assure him that in reaching decisions on the recommendations of the IAC, the Government will be very mindful of the consumer consequences of those decisions and very mindful of the price of petroleum products. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on bench or pedestal drilling machines not power fed. 
-The question does call for an expression of legal opinion. I will endeavour, in consultation with the Attorney-General to clarify the present situation and advise the honourable gentleman. I will not attempt to speculate on the present situation. The honourable gentleman raises the question of the introduction of a national companies Bill. I inform him that on Friday I will be meeting in Canberra all State Ministers responsible for corporate affairs and it is my hope that at this meeting I will have a definitive indication from all States regarding the proposals which were announced by the Government last year for a co-operative scheme of uniform administration in this area. I am hopeful that all the States will agree to the essential principles that were outlined in that statement which involve the establishment of an effective national corporations and securities commission and a machinery for greater uniformity. The Government has chosen a legislative route which was less confrontationist than the route chosen by the previous Government and I am hopeful of winning the approval of all the States to those proposals. 
I move: 
1 ) That a Select Committee be appointed: 
to examine the significance and potential of tourism in the Australian economy and whether it has special features in comparison with other industries, with particular reference to its effects on: 
employment, 
balance of payments aspects, 
the community's knowledge of Australia and the Australian heritage, 
community health and welfare, and 
v) regional development and decentralisation; 
to identify the short and long term issues facing the industry in Australia; 
to examine the importance of the various modes of transport in the development of tourism to and within Australia; 
to examine the roles and responsibilities of the Commonwealth, State and local governments and the industry in relation to the development and promotion of tourism; 
to assess the adequacy and the availability of statistical and other information relating to tourism, and 
f) to report on its investigations into these matters and to recommend action that might be taken by the Commonwealth Government or by the Commonwealth Government in co-operation with State and local governments and the tourist industry to alleviate any problems identified by the committee during the course of its investigations. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of 8 members, 5 to be nominated by the Prime Minister and 3 to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee have power to move from place to place. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any sittings or adjournment. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
1 5 ) That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
16) That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to the committee's report 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the minutes of evidence and records of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism appointed in the First Session of the Thirtieth Parliament 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
Honourable members will recall that a Select Committee on Tourism was established by the previous Parliament and that the report of the Committee had not been tabled when Parliament was prorogued. The terms of reference proposed in this motion are in precisely the same terms as those under which the previous Committee operated. I am sure that all honourable members will wish this important work to continue and will lend their support to the motion. 
-I think the honourable gentleman asked 3 questions. The first was about the allocation of funds for further work by the royal commission. That is the ministerial responsibility of the Minister for Administrative Services; so I will refer that matter to him. My responsibility relates purely to the Government's response to the fourth report of the Royal Commission. In answer to the second question, I refer the honourable gentleman to the answer I gave to the question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Wilmot, which was in precisely the same terms as the honourable gentleman's question. As to the third question, the Government believes that the staffing arrangements applying to the Prices Justification Tribunal are adequate and appropriate in the circumstances. 
-by leave- I desire to inform the House of the details of the agreement reached between Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for corporate affairs matters at their meeting in Canberra last Friday. Ministers at the meeting agreed to recommend to their respective governments adoption of a general framework for a cooperative Commonwealth-State scheme for the regulation of the entire field of companies and the securities industry. In expressing on behalf of the Government its great satisfaction with the terms of the agreement concluded last Friday I wish to record my appreciation and that of the Government for the constructive, helpful and cooperative approach of all State Ministers which characterised the several months of negotiations which led to last Friday's Ministers agreement. The proposals agreed upon last Friday are of course subject to ratification by all Governments concerned. 
The House will recall that when in opposition the Government parties expressed their general support for the establishment of a national regulatory authority for the securities industry although at the time of the introduction of the Whitlam Government's Corporations and Securities Industry Bill in 1975 our parties entered very severe reservations regarding the provisions of that legislation. The government's commitment to the establishment of a national authority was re-affirmed in July 1976 when I announced the details of the Government's policy approach and invited the States to join talks on our proposals. 
Unlike its predecessor this Government chose a path of co-operation with the States. We did this for two reasons. Firstly, it was consistent with the government's philosophical commitment to federalism and, secondly, we believed that both Commonwealth and State Governments had legitimate roles and interests in this area and the only satisfactory solution lay in reaching agreement on a co-operative basis. In formulating its policy the Government also reached the conclusion that in the interests of greater uniformity and consistency it was necessary to apply the one approach to both regulation of the securities industry and the area generally covered by the existing companies acts of the various States. The basic elements of the scheme agreed to by Ministers at last Friday's meeting are as follows: 
The establishment of a Ministerial Council comprising Ministers of the Commonwealth and each of the six States. 
The establishment of a full-time National Companies and Securities Commission to have responsibility in the entire area subject to directions from the Ministerial Council. 
The continuation of existing State administrations. 
The adoption of a proposal for legislative uniformity which recognises that the States are not required to surrender or refer any constitutional power. This proposal includes the following: 
The Commonwealth will enact comprehensive corporation and securities legislation, in relation to the internal territories, substantially in accordance with the uniform laws presently in force in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. 
Each of the States will enact legislation ensuring that the Commonwealth legislation has full force and effect in that State. 
The States will repeal existing companies and securities legislation from the commencement date of the Commonwealth legislation. 
Any future amendments to the legislation will be decided by the Ministerial Council, and then placed before the Commonwealth Parliament for approval. Once enacted those amendments will operate in each State without the need for further legislation. In the event of the Commonwealth Parliament not enacting, within 6 months, an amendment decided upon by the Ministerial Council, each State would have the right to separately take action to implement the decision of the Ministerial Council. 
The Government believes there are two basic advantages in the proposed scheme. Firstly, it will be of significant benefit to the business community. For many years all sections of business in Australia have called for greater uniformity in both corporate law and administration and the elimination of the costly duplication and complexities inherent in disuniformity Formation of the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission which brought together New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia was a significant milestone along the path to more effective national arrangements. The scheme now proposed builds upon the Interstate Corporate Affairs arrangements and will include all States as well as the Commonwealth. It will have the added advantages of a full-time national commission and an effective procedure for securing and maintaining uniformity of law throughout the Commonwealth. Secondly, the proposed arrangements will provide greater investor protection. 
A national commission will be able to act quickly and effectively in respect of malpractice in those circumstances where it is clearly desirable that investigatory work and any consequent action be undertaken on a national level. On the subject of investor protection I think it is fair to say that sufficient time has now elapsed since the rather frenetic days of the mining boom and its aftermath for a sober assessment to be made of the lessons learned from that experience. It cannot be denied that the whole of the circumstances surrounding that period in the experience of the capital market in Australia afforded the unscrupulous opportunities for fraud and deceit. The particularity of many specific cases of such conduct has been detailed in the Senate report on securities and exchange. However, the losses sustained by so many people during that period cannot and must not be all made attributable to the dishonest behaviour of certain dealers. 
The very frenzy engendered by the mining boom encouraged the normally cautious to speculate with the inevitable consequences of high risk ventures conducted even in the most honest and carefully regulated circumstances. The lapse of time has allowed us to look at that period and subsequent detailed investigation of the behaviour of those involved in a more balanced manner. The Government's interest in the mechanism of the capital market must not only be seen in terms of investor protection although this is a fundamental element. It must also be seen in terms of the Government's responsibility to assist in improving the performance of the capital market. We shall do an important economic institution a great disservice if Government regulation and involvement is seen only in the punitive sense of curbing and punishing the dishonest and deceitful. 
This, however, is not to underestimate in any way the importance of investor protection. Investor confidence in the future of the institutions and enterprises in which his savings are invested and in the fairness of the market through which liquidation of his holdings can occur is basic to our economic system. For that reason alone the Government must be concerned that confidence is maintained through adequate protective provisions. This consideration has been a dominant element in formulating and implementing the approach of this Government. 

 Mr Speaker, the agreement reached last Friday is only the beginning but a very important beginning. Many complicated issues remain to be resolved and further negotiations at a Ministerial level will be required. The Ministers propose to meet again on 6 May next. However, I believe that the spirit of co-operation and the determination of all governments to reach a satisfactory arrangement which has been evident to date will continue to prevail and that the national approach I have outlined in this statement will be brought to fruition. I commend the statement to the House. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- The Opposition welcomes the statement. It recognises that some small progress has been made but, from the Opposition point of view, it is not the solution to the problem. This is evident from the final remarks of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who said: 
Many complicated issues remain to be resolved and further negotiations at a Ministerial level will be required. 
I would think that for years to come that will be the tenor and the format of the proposal. The Labor Party takes the point of view- we have always been consistent in it- that as the Commonwealth Parliament has the power, it has the responsibility and it should legislate effectively in this field. 
The Minister proposes that a full time commission should operate alongside a ministerial council. There again the commission is going to have responsibilities which are subject to directions from the ministerial council. There is no guarantee that there will be a continuity of effort. You could well reach a hiatus- in fact, a disagreement- and delay. Many of the problems in this area are caused because the national Parliament has been unable or unwilling to legislate in the area. We take cognisance of the fact that when the Labor Party was in Opposition in the Senate it was able eventually to set up a select committee as long ago as 1970. We could not even set up a committee in the House of Representatives because the Government of the day did not favour carrying out that sort of investigation. It was set up in the Senate, and that Senate Committee did a very good job. It is affectionately known as the Rae Committee. Of course,  Senator Rae  took a keen interest in the investigation. That Committee produced a very worthwhile report. In that report the Committee was able to highlight the many inconsistencies in and failures of State company legislation to protect people, and it cited a specific example. 
Let us look at what has happened since 1970. Many of the people who were virtually guilty of taking thousands of dollars from Australians continued to do so after that time by engaging in other practices. Such things will continue until we achieve some cohesion. For years we have been urging the enactment of a national securities and companies law. We say that such a law should be .introduced instead of the situation being left in a state of limbo by saying: 'Well, we have the power but we do not want to tread on the niceties of State legislation because it will cause political repercussions'. We can see that that is no way in which to deal with this matter. The corporations power is to be found in section 5 1 of the Constitution, and also we have power by virtue of the section relating to interstate trade. It is not worthy of anyone to say that we do not have the power in this area. We all agree that it is possible to control the securities industry, and it should have been done. Not to use the power available to us is running away from the problem. 
The scheme outlined by the Minister seeks to achieve legislative uniformity, not administrative uniformity. State corporate offices will still be responsible for at least a large part of administration. Problems will be caused in that some of these offices will be more vigilant than others, and that will be because some artificial demarcation line will have to be drawn between State and national administration. Needless red tape will occur. Some States, such as Queensland and particularly Western Australia, which have constantly opposed any proposal, are not likely to give any greater powers. Regardless of public interest they will oppose any national commission having too much say in day to day administration. 
The Rae report on recent corporate crashes shows that the law needs to be able to adapt to ever-changing circumstances. The scheme is not capable of speedy amendment. It needs the support of the majority of Ministers, and it has taken more than a year even to get the scheme off the ground. How long will it take to effect amendments? If agreement is made to an amendment and the Commonwealth has not legislated within 6 months, then apparently the States can introduce that amendment after 6 months. That means that the scheme may not remain uniform if the Commonwealth does not like proposed amendments. The basis of the scheme is: No reference of power, no overriding consistent State law; just agreement. States can pull out of the scheme at any time, and no doubt Queensland and Western Australia, and possibly Victoria, will pull out when the Labor Party next comes to power in Canberra, because it has been their past track record not to co-operate with a Labor government. 
When will the scheme start? Subject to the approval of the 7 governments, it will commence as soon as is practicable. 
That was the track record when you were in power. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 6 to 9 (1977). 
The customs tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposal No. 6 implements the Government's decision to allow duty free admission of motor vehicle replacement parts which was announced on 10 September last year to compensate vehicle manufacturers with significant excess local content as a result of the existence of reversion control procedures in the Government's motor vehicle plans policy. 
Proposals Nos 7 and 8 formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by gazette notices during the last recess. These proposals implement the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on: Bench or pedestal drilling machines not power fed; clothing; and certain man-made fibres, yarns and fabrics. The effect of the decision on drilling machines is that import restrictions will apply to metal working bench or pedestal pulley operated drilling machines. Imports in excess of quota will attract a temporary duty of $200 each. 
The tariff changes relating to clothing and certain man-made fibres, yarns and fabrics provide for the continuation of tariff quota arrangements applying to these goods and the imposition of tariff quotas on pile fabrics of man-made fibres and towelling. The change also provides for the alignment of certain additional duties applying to adult and non-adult garments and women's and men's knitted tops. Proposals No. 9 give effect to the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on: Soaps and detergents; and electric motors, generators and rotary converters. In respect of soaps and detergents the changes generally represent a reduction of duties on imported soaps and detergents for household purposes and certain chemicals. The decision on electric motors, generators and rotary converters means that the short-term rate of assistance will be set at 30 per cent and that the industry situation will be reviewed in 2 years to assess the long-term level of assistance required. A comprehensive summary of the changes contained in the proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I thank the Leader of the Opposition for the question. I have had this matter under consideration for some 2 weeks and I have today decided that it would be appropriate to extend the terms of reference of the inquiry to cover component manufacture. Details of that decision will be announced either later today or tomorrow. The names of the companies involved in that extended inquiry will then be made known. 
-The first thing I would like to say in response to the honourable gentleman's question is that the scheme agreed to by the Commonwealth and State Ministers is not a puerile scheme. If the honourable member thinks it is a puerile scheme he ought to look to the public statements of the New South Wales Attorney-General who at the meeting represented the Minister responsible for corporate affairs in the honourable gentleman's home State.  Mr Walker  did not describe the arrangement as being puerile. I think that the words attributed to him, and he has not denied them, were that he was jubilant that agreement had been reached. The honourable gentleman's specific question relates to the administration and terms of the Bankruptcy Act and not to the administration and terms of the area generally covered by companies and securities. I will analyse those sections of the question which relate to changes to the Bankruptcy Act and I will communicate with the honourable gentleman regarding them at a later date. 
-I will attend to it expeditiously. 
The application in question involves the exercise of a discretion which, as I understand it, is totally within the responsibility of the Registrar of Companies for the Australian Capital Territory. I am aware of the substance of the application, information having been given to me for obvious reasons. I shall make inquiries as to the current situation regarding the application and let the honourable gentleman know the result of those inquiries. 
I am aware of Press reports that ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd may be, in the words of the honourable gentleman, 'poised to enter the petroleum market in New South Wales '. I express the hope that any restraints that may be imposed on the entry of ACTU-Solo into petrol marketing in New South Wales will be restraints of a normal commercial character and that the decision as to whether or not to enter the New South Wales market will be taken on proper commercial grounds. I hope that the company will not be at any disability in that regard. The other part of the honourable gentleman's question relates to the Government's decision on the recommendations contained in the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. As the honourable gentleman is aware, *L Government has had this matter under consideration for some months. I have consulted a very wide range of people, including representatives of ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd, and I expect that the Government will be taking a decision in the very near future on whether to adopt some or all of the recommendations. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on sacks, bags and certain polyolefin fabrics. 
-My attention has been directed to an article on the front page of the  Australian Financial Review  published today which rather fancifully suggests that the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission has directly criticised some statements regarding productivity in Australian industry contained in  Her  Majesty's Speech at the opening of Parliament. The article is a rather curious and pathetic attempt to create a difference of opinion and a difference of attitude between the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission and, by implication, the Prime Minister and the Government regarding the matters referred to in the article. 
The article rests upon a complete misunderstanding of a paragraph in Her Majesty's Speech in which reference was made to the dependence of the prosperity of Australia on the strength of its productive private sector- on its manufacturing, mining and rural industries. As honourable gentlemen who have carefully read Her Majesty's Speech and listened carefully to statements on these matters by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and other Ministers would realise very quickly, what was being referred to in that Speech was the importance to the economic recovery of this country of the productivity of the entire private sector as opposed to the public sector. In speaking about productivity of the private sector, one of course speaks about the productivity of the rural sector, the manufacturing sector, the mining sector and the service sector. I think that the article represents once again an increasing tendency on the part of some people, when looking at matters relating to industry assistance, to fail to understand the total interdependence of all sectors of Australian industry, be they rural, mining, manufacturing or service. 
Pursuant to section 35A(2) of the Prices Justification Act 1 973 I present the report of the Prices Justification Tribunal in respect of the 6 months ended 3 1 December 1976. Due to the limited number of copies of the report available at this time, I have arranged for reference copies of the report to be placed in the Parliamentary Library and with the 
Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives. Normal distribution of the report will be made as soon as copies are available. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government 's decision to accord increased assistance to the automatic data processing equipment industry in Australia by way of a scheme for payment of bounty on the production of specified equipment and parts. The Bill provides, with several exceptions with which I will deal later, for implementation of the recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 96 of 18 August 1976 on ADP equipment and parts. The 
Commission's recommendation that the manufacture in Australia of ADP equipment and parts which, if imported, fall to item 84.53 and subitem 92.12.1 of Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Customs Tariff Act 1966 be further assisted by bounty has been accepted by the Government, except as it relates to cathode ray tube display terminals. Production in Australia of cathode ray tube display terminals is an area of high technology which has continued to develop under the existing tariff of 24 per cent and Australian producers have demonstrated their ability in the fields of manufacture and design by supplying the market with terminals specially suited to Australian requirements. Accordingly, the Government has decided to maintain the present tariff protection in regard to these display terminals rather than bring such manufacture within the bounty scheme on the same footing as for other ADP equipment as the Commission recommended. 
The Bill to which the House is now addressing its attention provides for the manufacture of eligible ADP equipment and parts, which are at present dutiable at 6 per cent, to be further assisted by bounty for 7 years on a decreasing scale which provides for each of the first 3 years of the scheme bounty equivalent to 20 per cent of the value added in Australia by ADP equipment manufacturers; for the next two years 15 per cent of the value added and for the remaining 2 years 7.5 per cent of value added. The production of ADP equipment is a high technology industry. Local production is currently confined to cathode ray tube display terminals and a limited range of certain other peripherals. Future production will probably continue to centre on peripheral equipment and small systems. The Government has decided that the industry should have the opportunity to develop further in these areas where it can operate with moderate levels of assistance. By proposing the bounty assistance I have outlined, the Government has accepted the view expressed by the Industries Assistance Commission that duty augmented by bounty assistance for these goods is preferable to a uniform tariff alone. This form of assistance should help maximise the use of computers in Australia, give local manufacturers the time and opportunity to identify and establish low cost production capabilities and obtain acceptance of their products. Because the ADP industry is subject to rapid technological change the Government has decided that the assistance accorded the industry be reviewed in 5 years, rather than in 7 years as recommended by the Commission, and that consideration be given to including the software sector in the review. 
The action proposed by the Bill now under consideration by the House should provide assistance to the industry in planning for the future and will allow users access to the latest and best computer technology at, or near, world prices to the benefit of both Australian industry and the community as a whole. Clause 22 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of printed polyester-cotton bed sheeting. Following advice received from the Textiles Authority in its report No. 89 of 18 June 1976 on sheets, curtains etc. and the Industries Assistance Commission in its interim report No. 97 of 27 August 1976 on fabrics for use as bed sheeting, pillow casing or bolster casing, it has been decided to accord assistance by means of a bounty scheme providing for payment to the manufacturer of a bounty of 20c per square metre on sheeting of cotton in admixture with not less than 20 per cent of man-made fibres which such manufacturer weaves, prints and makes up into bed linen in his own manufacturing establishment in Australia during a period within which the bounty scheme is in effect. 
The bounty which this Bill proposes is seen by the Government as according short-term assistance only. The question of long-term assistance for the manufacture of sheeting and a wide range of other textile and apparel items is currently under review by the Industries Assistance Commission. It is anticipated that the Commission's report in that regard will be made towards the end of this year. Because of the short-term nature of the bountry proposal, provision has been made for the scheme to operate on a yearbyyear basis, for the amount available for payment as bounty not to exceed $500,000 in any yearly period and for the bounty scheme to be able to be quickly wound up, as provided for in subclause 4 (2) of the Bill, by the publishing by the Minister of a notice in the  Gazette  fixing the date after which no further bounty becomes payable. Clause 2 1 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to continue to assist the manufacture in Australia of wheeled agricultural tractors and their derivatives but under a completely revised structure recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 81 of 19 February 1976. This revised structure provides for the phasing in, over 5 years, of a bounty scale which, except in respect of tractors in the high engine output category, represents a substantially reduced bounty level to operate for a further 2 years by which time, it is proposed, a further review of the industry will have been completed. The Bill proposes amendments to the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966, retrospective to 1 January 1977, to extend the terminating date from 31 December 1976 to 31 December 1984 or such later date as may be fixed by proclamation. Provision is made by clause 14 of the Bill whereby a tractor, the manufacture of which was completed on or before 3 1 December 1 976 but which is sold on or after 1 January 1977, will be eligible for bounty under the old scheme as if the tractor was manufactured and sold not later than 31 December 1 976. 
The Schedule of amounts of bounty payable under the existing Act in respect of tractors from 15 kW engine output up to 67 kW output and over is, by sub-clause 6 ( 1 ) of the Bill, replaced by a new Schedule which provides for the ascending order of bounty entitlements to extend beyond the existing ceiling to take account of manufacture of tractors up to 105 kW engine output. The effect of the substituted bounty scale over the initial period of 3 years, as compared with the old scheme, will be as follows: 
Lower bounty for tractors at the low end of the  power  scale ( 1 5 kW to 34 kW); 
Higher bounty for tractors with engine output of 35 kW and higher; 
Substantially higher bounty for tractors with engine output above 67 kW because of extension of the progressive ascending scale beyond 67 kW up to 105 kW. 
The proposed scheme provides, after that initial period of 3 years to which I have just alluded, for the phasing in, in 2 steps, of a scale which specifies reduced levels of bounty, as compared with the old scheme, except for tractors with engine output of 67 kW and higher. The phased-in reduction of bounty at the low power end of the scale is substantial. 
In order to preserve relativity between the amounts prescribed as bounty entitlements and import price levels, provision is made in clause 6 of the Bill for the scales of amounts of bounty to be indexed to take account of movement in import price levels. It is proposed that indexation be achieved by prescribing by regulation, from time to time, an appropriate factor by the application of which, amounts shown in the bounty scales are to be modified. Administratively, the factor to be prescribed initially will be ascertained by reference to the Reserve Bank of Australia Import Price Index 'Machinery Except Electric' Group. The amounts shown in the proposed scales in the Schedule in clause 12 of the Bill are those recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission as based on March 1976 price levels updated to first quarter 1977 values by application of that index. Provision is made by paragraph (b) of clause 6 of the Bill for bounty to be reduced by 1 per cent for each 1 per cent by which local content of factory cost of a tractor is below 100 per cent. A reactivated provision in sub-section 6 (4) of the 1966 Act provides that no bounty is payable where the local content of factory cost of a tractor is less than 55 percent. 
The proposed revised bounty structure, by providing a more uniform  level of assistance in  respect of tractor size and level of local content and by providing increased incentive to the production of heavier tractors should ensure the viability of the industry in Australia. It is anticipated that bounty payments under the scheme proposed by this Bill will amount to approximately $5m per annum for the first 3 years of operation of the scheme. This is substantially similar to the amount that would be payable if operation of the previous scheme had been continued. The effect of clause 1 1 together with clause 13 of the Bill is to continue the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The New Zealand Re-exports Act of 1924 was introduced to provide, in relation to goods which after importation into New Zealand were reexported to Australia, a concessional basis of valuation for duty purposes outside the normal valuation provisions of Part VIII of the Customs Act. This is done by providing that, subject to proper certification, the value for duty of such reexports will, with some time limit safeguards, be the sum of the current domestic value of the goods in the country of original export and the actual re-export handling charges in New Zealand, increased by a statutory 10 per cent. The Act and the reciprocal New Zealand legislation in relation to re-exports from Australia to New Zealand each no doubt served its respective purpose well for many years. However, because of faster and more frequent shipping services and the advent and development of air cargo, the facility has been little used of recent years and is seen at present as providing, for a very small number of overseas suppliers, little more than an option for filling certain orders either direct or from stocks held in New Zealand or in Australia, as the case may be. 
Since adoption by Australia last year of a modified Brussels Definition of Value there has been no requirement for import documents to show the current domestic value of goods in the country of export and, because of this, Australia is not able to fulfil its part in the scheme by providing the certifications required under the reciprocal New Zealand legislation. Furthermore the Brussels Convention on the Valuation of Goods for Customs Purposes, to which Australia intends to accede in due course, enjoins contracting parties to take all necessary steps as soon as circumstances permit, to conform to the provisions of the Convention which do not allow for bi-lateral agreements outside those provisions. 
Because of Australia's movement away from the system of valuation on which the arrangement between Australia and New Zealand depends, and because of duties and obligations which Australia accepts, or will accept, in relation to the Valuation Convention, the Government has decided, in consultation with representatives of the New Zealand Government, to repeal the Act. New Zealand has indicated in the consultations to which I have referred, that it raises no objection to the repeal of the Australian legislation and it is understood that the New Zealand authorities will arrange for the repeal of their relevant regulations to coincide with the coming into effect of the Australian repeal Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Requests by the Government to the Attorney-General 's Department ibr legal advice and details of any advice which may be received are confidential to the Government. 
The Government is at present considering submissions from interested parties in relation to this discrimination. 
Yes. 
See the answers to ( 1 ), (2) and (3) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) As the Government has not announced its decision on the recommendations of the Royal Commission, it is not appropriate for me to discuss the findings made in its report. 
In its decision on the Shell application for authorisation of various exclusive dealing agreements relating to the supply of petroleum and petroleum products, the Trade Pratices Commission concluded that there would be very little erosion of solo trading if the exclusive dealing agreements were not authorised. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no import requirement for wines to conform to a standard of minimum alcohol content. 
-The position is that the Government has requested any companies which had obtained approval for price increases prior to last Thursday but had not yet implemented those increases not to do so. The Secretary of my Department contacted a number of the companies concerned and received assurances from them that the price increases previously granted will not be implemented. We are extemely encouraged by the response that has been forthcoming bearing in mind that in many cases these companies are forgoing price increases which have been caused by earlier wage increases. Therefore these companies have had no opportunity of passing on the effects of those wage increases. 
The Government hopes that during the period between last Thursday and when the broad agreement of which the Prime Minister spoke is achieved, all companies in this situation will comply with the Government's request, notwithstanding the considerable difficulty that some of them will experience. The response to the specific approaches we have made encourages us to believe that these companies will so respond. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on monochrome television receivers and certain electronic components. For the information of honourable members I also present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the Australian olive industry. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Government regards details of any representations made to it as confidential. 
No. 
Film Distribution and Tarin* Board Report on Motion Pictures and Television Programs  (Question No. 308) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tariff Board's Report was received by the Whitlam Government on 13 July 1973 and that Government's decision on the Board's recommendations was announced on 10 December 1973. 
The Trade Practices Commission is keeping firms within the film distribution and exhibition industry under review. No enforcement action has been taken by the Commission to date. Any future enforcement action taken by the Commission would be announced at that time in the normal way. 
Yes. 
No amendments in this regard are necessary. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes; I understand that the report accurately represents the decisions of the Commission to which it refers. 
to (4) The Trade Practices Act 1974 requires that the Trade Practices Commission should maintain a register in relation to all clearance and authorisation applications received by it. The register, which is available for publicinspection, is to contain all documents furnished, and particulars of oral submissions made, to the Commission in relation to such applications unless the Commission is satisfied that it is desirable to exclude such material by reason of its confidential nature. The public register files in relation to these decisions disclose no representations by  Sir Chas.  McGrath. 
I table a document comprising a summary of the responses to the Prime Minister's letter regarding the wages and prices pause. 
For the information of honourable members I table a list of documents relating to the prices-incomes freeze, including a statement of certain determinations made by the Government relating to it. 
I move: 
Customs Tariffproposals No. 10 ( 1977). 
The Customs Tariffproposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Customs Tariffproposals No. 10 give effect to an agreement reached with the New Zealand Government concerning new arrangements for trans-Tasman trade in items of apparel. This Government has for some time been concerned at the rapid growth in imports from New Zealand and the market distortions resulting from the exemption of New Zealand apparel from tariff quota arrangements. The present open-ended exemption of New Zealand apparel from Australia's global tariff quotas will be terminated from tomorrow. At the same time provision will be made for special quotas for Australian importers of New Zealand apparel, designed to facilitate imports from New Zealand within existing quota ceilings for the various products categories up to the overall levels achieved in the calendar year 1976. I should mention that goods imported under this arrangement within the quota limits set will continue to be admitted at the existing concessional rate applicable to New Zealand. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
My attention has been drawn to a statement made by the managing director of the Leyland Motor Company announcing price increases effective as from last Friday. I should make it very clear that the Government deeply deplores the action of that company and particularly deplores the truculent attitude of the managing director of the company when the statement was made. Equally, I should make it very plain to those honourable members on this side of the House who are still very interested in the success of this venture that the Government applauds the reported attitude of Bryson Industries, the company which is the principal distributor of the motor cars in question, that it does not intend to pass on the price increases announced by the Leyland company. 
I think the behaviour of the Leyland company and its managing director in this matter is starkly out of step with the general response of the Australian business community. The truth of the matter is that very many companies throughout Australia have freely and generously, at some considerable cost to themselves, responded to the Government's call for price restraint. That, I think, makes all the more blameworthy the conduct of a company which in the past, as honourable members opposite would know, has not been ungenerously treated by Australian governments. The Government is particularly disturbed at the action of the company and at the manner in which the managing director saw fit to make the announcement. It was suggested in one of the Press articles that the company's application for price increases did not come within the surveillance of the Prices Justification Tribunal because of the prices of the vehicles involved. This company did have an exemption from notification from the Prices Justification Tribunal on account of the low volume of sales and not on account of prices. 
There is another matter that I think is relevant in this context. Honourable gentlemen ought to be aware that under the Prices Justification Tribunal Act as it presently exists there is a power under section 17 for the Minister to direct the Tribunal to conduct an inquiry into the prices charged by particular companies for the whole or part of their product range. This power, if exercised, means that for the duration of the inquiry the company is not permitted to make any price increases at all. This power has been used by the Government on several occasions. It is the power that was used in respect of the inquiries I ordered into the pricing of farm machinery and motor vehicle spare parts. I should also point out to honourable gentlemen, that, as was apparent from the decisions of the Prices Justification Tribunal in respect of inquiries into stevedoring and container charges, the Tribunal has the capacity, having completed its inquiry, to request a price reduction. That is precisely what occurred in respect of Seatainers Terminals Ltd and in respect of the Patrick company. I think it is important that that power be borne in mind by all parties in present circumstances. 
-I think that the honourable gentleman's question, if we boil it down, calls into question both the relevance and the value of the proposal made by the Prime Minister and the Premiers last week. The honourable gentleman is entitled to take the cynical view that there is no value in the proposal, but that was not the view taken by the 6 Premiers and the Prime Minister last week. I suggest to the honourable gentleman that it is not the view that is shared widely throughout the community. The fact is that, on the best information available to the Government, there was a real increase in net disposable incomes in Australia for the December period of last year. I believe that there is value and relevance in the proposal. I regret very much that the honourable gentleman does not accept that. 
-The honourable gentleman raises a proposition that has been argued in the context of this current debate. In examining the proposition and in responding to the question I do not think we can chop off the proposition just at a consideration of the factual consequences - 
I am trying to answer the honourable member's question in a direct manner. I hope that I will be given the opportunity to do so. The question was asked seriously by a person who behaves courteously in this House, unlike the honourable member who has just interjected. I do not believe that we can cut off an examinaton of that type of question just in respect of prices for the period of 90 days or wages for the period of 90 days covering the freeze. Whilst there is substance in what the honourable gentleman has said, there is also substance in the proposition that those prices which are reflected subsequently in wage increases have in turn been caused by wage and other cost movements that occurred at an earlier period of time. I believe that if there is to be consideration of the type of proposition the honourable gentleman has raised, it is equally fair to look back over a period of time in respect of wage and price movements. As has been said in response to similar questions asked by the honourable gentleman, I do not think it is fair to leave out of consideration of this whole issue the extent to which wage movements in Australia during the years 1973 and 1974 represented, on an annual basis, the type of increases that were attributable normally to that previous period. 
With all respect,  Mr Speaker,  I have been asked a question about the consequences in the interrelationship of a price and wage freeze and I think it is highly relevant to talk about the impact of wage increases on price movements in Australia. Whilst I accept the relevance of the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I do not think a total and fair examination can be made unless one also takes into account the relevance of wage and price movements over a considerably greater period of time than the period of the 90-day proposed freeze. 
in reply- I should like to thank everybody for their kind expressions of support for the Government's policy decision in respect of these 3 Bills. I particularly welcome the expressions of support from the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde). 
Yes-enthusiastic support. In a quite serious vein, I do take note of the remarks of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr 
Scholes). Of course the Government is worried about the employment aspects of labour intensive industries. For example, tomorrow I will be seeing a delegation of all the textile and rubber workers unions in New South Wales sponsored by the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council. The Government is very worried about these matters. I take on board seriously the honourable gentleman's point about the need to monitor the operation of the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill. I think it is a slight loss to say that it represents any significant reduction in protection. I think rather that it is a readjustment in respect of the various product ranges of tractors. 
The Government is pleased that in these instances its decisions regarding the nature or the device of assistance to be used has drawn such strong support. I think that there are limits to the proposition as to how far we can replace customs tariff with bounties. But equally, I think that in cases in which we wish particularly to assist a specialised, highly technical Australian industry with a proven competitive capacity, which is certainly the case in the automatic data processing area, it is very desirable that a bounty be paid. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
For the information of honourable members, I table copies of telexes exchanged between the Prime Minister and various Premiers relative to the pricewage pause. 
In the face of that rather provocative and emotional peroration from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  I think it would be a good idea if this House went back, as the honourable member did at the beginning of his remarks, to where the proposition for a wage-price pause started. It started at a Premiers Conference on 13 April at which the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth and the Premiers of each of the 6 States- Labor, Liberal and National Country Party- all agreed on one thing and one thing alone: That a price freeze for a wage freeze was a fair exchange. In other words, every person who put his signature to that agreement on 13 April said in clear and unmistakable terms: 'We think a fair exchange is achieved if there is a price freeze for a wage freeze. ' 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Pospect to interject because he knows that the simplicity of that proposition commends itself to the overwhelming majority of the Australian people. They understand what is involved in it, and to the extent that the honourable member pours scorns upon it he pours scorn upon the intelligence of the Labor Premier of New South Wales, he pours scorn upon the Labor Premier of Tasmania, and he pours scorn upon the Labor Premier of South Australia. On 13 April all of those gentlemen, in concert with the 3 non Labor Premiers of Australia and the Prime Minister, believed it was fair and just that the wage and salary earners of Australia should accept a wage freeze in return for a price freeze. There was no reference in the heads of government agreement to taxation cuts. There was no reference in the heads of government agreement to a national conference. 
Indeed, the proposition for a national conference had been explored by the Premiers Conference. For reasons which I will mention in a moment and which have already been mentioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the context of this whole debate, that proposition was rejected. All of those Premiers knew before and at the Conference that it was beyond the economic capacity of the Commonwealth Government to give further taxation reductions. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  had said repeatedly over the last 6 months that taxation reductions, beyond those embraced by tax indexation which will give benefits of $2,000m during the financial year commencing 1 July, are beyond the economic capacity of the Federal Government at the present time. This was spelt out in clear and unmistakeable terms to each of the Premiers at the Premiers 'Conference. 
Despite that, in the full knowledge that the Commonwealth Government had neither the capacity nor the intention at the present time of granting further taxation reductions, every last one of those Premiers signed that declaration. By so doing, they said that it was not unfair to say to the trade union movement that it should accept wage restraint in return for price restraint. It was not unfair to say that that was a fair swap. In the light of that action, the behaviour and the attitude of a number of people involved in this dis- pute shows them, under close examination not to ave understood the motives behind the original declaration of the Premiers and the Prime Minister. What was involved in that and what we must constantly remind ourselves of, despite the attempts of people such as the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to divert our attention from it, was the simple proposition that the Australian people understood that it was fair to have a price pause in return for a wage pause. I believe that after that agreement was reached, the hopes of a great number of people in Australia that something quite bi-partisan and quite across party lines had been achieved were raised. They believed that it might be possible from that, with good faith and with a willingness to consider and discuss problems, to achieve something quite significant to reduce our rate of inflation. 
Nobody imagined from day one of this exercise that there were not going to be difficulties. Nobody imagined that it would be possible for everyone in the community to accept from day one that an effective freeze on prices and a effective freeze on wages would be possible. Indeed, the honourable member for Gellibrand with, I think, a certain degree of cynicism, has pointed to some of the difficult areas in regard to prices. What he did not do was to acknowledge during his remarks- he did not have the grace to do sothat within 2 days of the joint agreement between the Premiers and the Prime Minister, all the major employer groups of Australia met representatives of the Government in Melbourne and pledged their support for the objectives that the Premiers and the Prime Minister had in mind. 
He did not have the grace to acknowledge that company after company in Australia had stated, and by their actions demonstrated, their willingness to abide by the price freeze. He did not have the grace to acknowledge that many companies without specific request from the Government had agreed to defer implementation of price approvals which had been given to them by the Prices Justification Tribunal. He did not have the grace to acknowledge any of these things. All he could do, in a destructive and uncooperative manner, was to point to the difficult areas. All he could do was to talk about perishable foods. All he could do was to talk about the areas which we knew would cause great difficulty. 
We knew about them from the outset. I venture to suggest that every last Premier, be he a Labor Premier or a Liberal Premier, knew about them at the outset. But despite this, all of those 7 gentlemen believed on 13 April that the nature of the circumstances in which we live in Australia at the present time demanded this type of bipartisan approach. It will be to their credit. I include in that statement Labor Premiers as well as Liberal Premiers. It will be to their credit that they were motivated to try to achieve this on 13 April. 
The Federal Government, for its part, acted in total good faith from 13 April onwards. It immediately said it would stop any increases in its own charges. It immediately approached the Prices Justification Tribunal and asked it to defer consideration of applications for price increases then before the Tribunal. It also asked the Tribunal to monitor price increases. It also undertook, through my Department, to contact companies which were entitled under the terms of the Prices Justification Act to receive decisions on their applications and to ask those companies to waive their right to have a decision given pending the hope of achieving agreement on the price-wage pause. In addition, within 4 days of 13 April, I indicated that if agreement in principle could be reached on the price-wage pause, the Government would be prepared to establish a special group consisting of employers, union representatives and the Prices Justification Tribunal to advise the Government, amongst other things, whether any changes to the Prices Justification Act were required in order to support the agreement. What we were doing by that was offering the trade union movement of Australia a direct say in advising the Government of the mechanism required to support the voluntary agreement. To the extent that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, his colleagues and members of the Opposition have denigrated the cause of reaching agreement on a price-wage pause, they have denied themselves an opportunity of participating in a means of making sure that the agreement worked. 
We acted in good faith. We went to the unprecedented lengths of sending to all the Premiers -at this stage we regarded it as a joint operation which could be consummated only if we maintained the unanimity which was evident on 13 April- advance copies of the submission that the Commonwealth proposed to make to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Governments do not normally do that, as the honourable member for Gellibrand who has appeared in that jurisdiction on a number of occasions knows full well. We felt so strongly that the unity evident on 13 April should be maintained that we sent an advance copy of our case to each of the 6 State governments. In the light of the objections raised to that draft submission by the Labor Governments of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania, we changed our submission. 
In other words, we bent over backwards to preserve the unity which was evident on 1 3 April. We listened to what  Mr Wran, Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Neilson  had to say. I think that, far from demonstrating any lack of good faith on the part of the Prime Minister and the Commonwealth Government, that demonstrates total good faith. We put our submission to the Conciliation and 
Arbitration Commission. We did not know in advance what the Governments of South Australia New South Wales and Tasmania would say to the Commission. They did not pay us the courtesy of sending us an advance copy of their submission. Of course not. I think their failure to do so demonstrates where on this issue the balance of good faith lies. We have acted in total good faith throughout this entire issue. We have endeavoured to bring about an agreement that the Premiers and the Prime Minister had in mind on 13 April. 
One may ask the question: Why will not the Commonwealth convene a national conference? The Prime Minister has said quite clearly and repeatedly that the Commonwealth will convene and join a national conference if there is a prospect that that national conference will contribute towards getting an agreement on a pricewage pause. That is what it is all about- an agreement on a price-wage pause. That is what the Premiers said it was all about on 13 April. They did not say it had anything to do with tax cuts or general economic management. They said it had everything to do with a fair exchange between a price pause and a wage pause. I repeat that the Commonwealth Government will join a national conference on this issue if there is any prospect that such a national conference will contribute towards consummating the agreement that was sought on 13 April. But we do not believe that there is any prospect of that agreement being consummated through a national conference unless all of those going to the conference at least want it to succeed. One would want a conference of that nature to succeed only if one were prepared to support the objective in principle. 
If it is aU right for the governments of Australia and for the employers of Australia to say that they seek the objective of a price-wage pause, why is it not all right for the trade union movement of Australia to say the same? We are not asking the trade union movement to commit itself blindfolded to the proposition. We are not asking it to give an absolute commitment. We are not asking it to bind itself. All we are asking it to do as a pre-condition to a national conference is to say that it is prepared to support in principle the objective of a price-wage pause. That is not an unreasonable demand.  Mr Dunstan  did not regard it as an unreasonable demand on 13 April and neither did  Mr Neilson  and  Mr Wran.  I think an increasing number of people in Australia are now asking why do the leadership of the trade union movement and an increasing number of members of the Parliamentary Labor 
Party regard that as such an unreasonable demand. 
I repeat that we are prepared to go to a national conference. But we will not go to a national conference which has no prospect of success. We WU not go to a national conference which will be a futile exercise in political rhetoric, a national conference which will unnecessarily raise hopes and expectations, a national conference to which some of the parties will not go in good faith. I believe that something could be achieved from a national conference on this issue if, indeed, all of the parties attending it were at least prepared to try to reach significant agreement on that one simple issue which motivated the Prime Minister and the Premiers on 13 April. One must keep going back to that point. It was a proposition which involved, of course, massive difficulties. It was a proposition whose success would require good faith on the part of all parties. It was a proposition not for the cynics of this world but for those people who believe - 
No, it was a proposition that a large number of people in this country believed could be made to work if all sections of the Australian community were prepared to join in helping to make it work. If there is evidence that all significant sections of the Australian community are prepared to be represented at a conference in order to make this proposition work, we are prepared to join it. So far I think everybody is acutely and starkly aware that there is one significant element of the Australian community which is not prepared to lend its support even in principle to an objective which all the heads of government in Australia, irrespective of their party differences, regarded on 13 April as an important objective. I think that is unfortunate for Australia. I think it is something which will disappoint and bewilder an increasing number of Australian people. 
The following information is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
Cultivation of poppies for the extraction of medically valuable alkaloids and the by-products oil and seed is a well established industry in Australia. In 1 97 1 Commonwealth and State Government Ministers approved a recommendation of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence that, for the purposes of control and security, cultivation should be limited to Tasmania. This decision has been re-affirmed on several occasions since. 
The United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs 1961 requires strict controls over opium poppy cultivation. The production and consumption of narcotics are supervised by the International Narcotics Control Board which requires estimates and returns and monitors the accountable documents required for every international narcotics transaction. 
The process used in Australia involves harvesting the unincised poppies and extraction of alkaloids by chemical means. 
Morphine extracted is either exported or converted to the far less abusable analgesic codeine. Opium is not produced. 
Under the Narcotic Drugs Act 1967, my colleague the Minister for Health has powers covering the licensing and control of manufacture. My responsibility under this legislation relates to security of manufacture and handling. The companies involved are required to furnish detailed returns covering acreages, quantities harvested, morphine content and alkaloids produced after further processing. Officials authorised under the Narcotics Drugs Act carry out regular inspections of company records and security measures. With the close co-operation of local authorities, appropriate steps are taken to ensure that diversion does not occur during cultivation, harvesting, storage, manufacturing and transportation stages. 
While I am not prepared to disclose actual details you may rest assured that all possible measures are taken to minimise the risk of diversion to the illicit market. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 1 1 (1977). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Customs TariffProposals No. 1 1 extend the present level of duties applying to tyres pending consideration by the Government of the report on tyres by the Industries Assistance Commission. Under the provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act the temporary duties applying to tyres would terminate today if no legislative action were taken. A comprehensive summary of the changes is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the house. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
My attention has been directed to that statement by the Australian Industries Development Association. I think the House should be aware that, as well as including the remarks to which the honourable gentleman referred, that very same statement expressed the total support of the Australian Industries Development Association for the objectives of the price-wage freeze which was announced on 13 April. I think that the honourable gentleman does the Association less than justice by not acknowledging the support that it has given. Over the last 6 months this Government has made clear the position and the facts concerning taxation reductions. The honourable gentleman will know that tax indexation will provide benefits of the order of $2,000m as from 1 July this year. Tax indexation represents the most significant tax reform carried out by any government in this country during the past decade. 
The Treasurer and the Prime Minister have said that it is not within the economic capacity or responsibility of the Government to give further taxation reductions at this time. The Government has no intention of departing from economic responsibility in these matters. Wc regard the proposal of the Prime Minister and the Premiers of 13 April as being an eminently fair proposal in itself- a proposal which made no reference to tax cuts and no reference to a national conference but merely put the simple proposition that a price freeze was a fair exchange for a wage freeze. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition for its support of this legislation. I also thank the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  for his remarks. Whilst this Bill has nothing in fact to do with the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement the points he made are fundamental to trading relations between Australia and New Zealand. He was correct in noting the significance of the arrangement concluded by my colleagues  Senator Cotton  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  at the recent NAFTA talks at which it was agreed that in the future imports from New Zealand in the apparel area will become part of global quota allocations. The significance of that decision will not be lost on local manufacturers in Australia. 
I also inform the honourable gentleman that certain decisions affecting the textile industry, particularly regarding quotas, have been taken by the Government in recent days and full details of these decisions will be disclosed, I hope, tomorrow in a joint statement from  Senator Cotton  and me. Those decisions bear very directly on the points raised by the honourable member for Bendigo, who once again has demonstrated to this House his continuing interest in the real problems of decentralised industries in this country. He demonstrates a concern for those industries which sets an example to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The answer to the first question asked by the honourable gentleman is no. The honourable gentleman knows, as do other members of this House who have studied this matter closely, that one of the principal deficiencies in the present situation is the absence of a national enforcement body and the incapacity of individual State organisations to act effectively. 
The honourable gentleman has asked a serious question. If he wants a serious answer he will keep quiet. The real weakness, as the honourable gentleman knows, is the absence of a national regulatory authority. The scheme agreed to in principle by the Commonwealth and the States does propose the establishment of a national regulatory authority and the honourable gentleman well knows that. 
The second question raised by the honourable gentleman really is whether the existing legislation and what might be proposed by the future legislation are adequate to cope with the matters that cause the honourable gentleman concern. I understand him to be suggesting that, in the context of establishing this legislation, there should be a study made of the problems. I will consider whether it is necessary in the course of establishing this legislation for any further studies to be made on a co-operative basis between the Commonwealth and the States regarding that issue. 
I move: 
Customs Tariffproposals Nos. 12 and 13(1977). 
The Customs Tariffproposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1 966. The tariff reductions contained in Proposals No. 12 are an extension of the Government's policy to reduce tariff levels where there is no adverse effect on local industry. These changes were previously withheld pending international consultation. Proposals No. 13 formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by  Gazette  notice during the last recess. The Proposals give effect to the Government's decision on the recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on the Australian olive industry. The duties mentioned in this Proposal are by virtue of the previous gazettal already in operation and in the majority of instances result in a reduction in rates of duty. In a minor number of items tariff levels were increased. However, the increases are marginal on items of significant trade interest and should not provide any basis for price increases. A comprehensive summary of changes contained in the Proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See reply to question 1692  (Hansard,  15 February 1977, page 79). 
No proposals have been put to me by the New South Wales Government. 
-I think the honourable member for Wakefield is referring to a remark I made when replying to the debate on a number of associated Bills in the protection area and particularly to the contribution to that debate made by the honourable member for Bendigo. To the best of my recollection- I have not had any time available to me. since the honourable gentleman got to his feet to check the  Hansard  report- I said that decisions had been taken by the Government relating to quotas and that details of those decisions would be made available. It is a fact that on Friday a joint Press statement was issued by  Senator Cotton  and myself in which it was said that the Government had reviewed the level of protection now prevailing to the textile, clothing and footwear industries. We expressed great concern in that Press statement at the declining employment levels in those industries. As everyone in this House knows, that decline commenced during the term of office of the Whitlam Government. We noted that during the past 12 months there had been a decline of employment in those industries of some 12 000 persons. The effect of the decision announced on Friday is twofold. Firstly, the Government has decided to extend the validity periods for existing quotas so as to give to importers an option of either exhausting their quota allocations during the current 12-month period or deferring some of that quota allocation to the subsequent period commencing after the expiry of that first period. We have also said that we are sending urgent references to the Industries Assistance Commission seeking advice on what quota levels ought to prevail at the expiry of the current 12-month period. That Press statement also indicated that no part of the Government's announcement represented an alteration or a disturbance to the existing quota levels. 
It is true that if the present trends regarding employment and market shares in those 3 particular areas were to continue, it would be necessary for the Government to allocate quotas at significantly lower levels at the end of the current 12-month period, I do not agree with the honourable gentleman that that statement goes further than indicating the Government's concern at the decline in the level of activity and the decline in the level of employment in those industries. The Government makes no secret of its concern about that decline. It makes no secret of the fact that if indeed that decline continues then in order to maintain a level of employment and a level of activity necessary to reverse it, changes would need to be made. The fact remains that no decisions on quotas to apply during the next 12-month period will be made until a report is received from the IAC. I do not accept that the procedures that the Government followed in these circumstances, particularly as there had been speculation during the week that decisions had been made on these issues, in any way makes a mockery of the IAC procedure. 
I move: 
That the Bill bc now read a second time. 
This Bill places before Parliament the proposals of the Government for amendment of the Trade Practices Act. An earlier Bill, which I placed before this House on 8 December 1976. lapsed with the prorogation of Parliament in February this year. In my second reading speech on 8 December 1976 I indicated that the Government considered that this extremely technical legislation should be exposed for study by interested parties throughout the community. Over the past 5 months the previous Bill was. in fact, closely scrutinised by many sections of the community. The Government received a great number of submissions on the Bill. There was also a second reading debate in this House. 
The Bill I now introduce varies from the previous Bill to accommodate a large number of technical changes. These technical changes, which largely flow from the public comments to which I have already referred, are designed to clarify the Bill or remove anomalies. These matters will no doubt be the subject of scrutiny during the Committee stage of this debate and I will not refer to them further in this speech. However, the Government has also incorporated into this Bill a number of changes which could not be described as technical. I now turn to these matters. 
Government Commercial Operations 
I announced last December that the Government had decided in principle that its commercial operations should be subject to the same restraints of the Trade Practices Act as apply to like operations of private enterprise. I then informed this House that the Government was studying the detailed implementation of this decision. This Bill gives effect to that decision in clause 4 which provides that the Act is to apply to all business undertakings of the Commonwealth Government and its authorities. There is only one specific exception. Land development in the Australian Capital Territory is specifically exempted, so as not to inhibit town planning in the Australian Capital Territory. Although provision is made in the Bill for regulations to provide other exemptions, the Government has no present plans to use that power. 
In addition, quite apart from the operation of its business undertakings, this Government has adopted the practice that all its advertising should conform to the standards of the Trade Practices Act. The Government hopes that its lead in this general area is followed by all State governments. 
Boycotts 
The Government has given close attention to the problems of both primary and secondary boycotts. It has decided that the provisions in the previous Bill dealing with these matters were not appropriate. The Government's views on this matter are based on two fundamental principles. First, it is considered that boycotting the commercial activities of particular persons is generally undesirable conduct, and that the Trade Practices Act should take a firm line on these matters. Accordingly, the Bill prohibits collective primary boycotts where they have the purpose of restricting or limiting the trade of particular persons. Collective secondary boycotts are prohibited where they have both the purpose and effect of either substantially damaging a particular business or substantially lessening competition in a market. Secondly, the Government believes that the Trade Practices Act should take an even handed approach to secondary boycotts and apply, so far as possible, to both business and employees alike. Primary boycotts by employees are not, of course, dealt with by this Act. 
The previous approach of section 45D to deal only with the actions of employees has been altered so that the section now applies to the conduct of any person. Exemptions for purely consumer boycotts will, however, remain. Further, the Bill enables authorisation to be obtained for any such boycott if the Trade Practices Commission is satisfied that in all the circumstances the boycott results in such a benefit to the public that it should be authorised. Secondary boycotts by employees do, however, have some unique features. Accordingly, the Bill has some special provisions which are appropriate only to employee secondary boycotts. 
Where employees are taking action for a dominant purpose substantially related to the remuneration, conditions of employment, termination of employment, hours of work or working conditions of those employees, or fellow employees of the same employer, the secondary boycott is not prohibited. Further, where the relevant employees are members of a trade union, that organisation is deemed to have engaged in the secondary boycott itself unless it establishes that it took all reasonable steps to prevent the boycott. An individual employee is not to be subject to an award of damages where his trade union or organisation is held responsible for the particular conduct. Finally, in this regard, no individual is to be subject to the pecuniary penalties of the Act for a contravention of section 45D. 
Small  Businesses 
The Government has also given close attention to the problems of small businesses in relation to the Trade Practices Act. It has made a number of decisions as a consequence of this consideration, lt has decided that both the present Act and the previous Bill gave insufficient attention to the problems of small businesses in making pricing decisions. Small businesses often do not have the managerial support staff necessary to make informed individual pricing decisions, particularly in multi-product situations. They tend to rely for this support upon trade associations. However, the present Trade Practices Act has often hindered the issuing of recommended price lists by trade associations. In the view of the Government, this has worked against the interests of small businesses. 
The effect of the Bill now before the House is that 'true' recommended price lists- that is, those not having the effect of fixing, maintaining or controlling a price- and which do not substantially lessen competition in a market, will be outside the Act altogether. Those recommendations which may fix, control or maintain a price, but which are issued by trade associations of more than 50 members, will not be caught by the absolute prohibitions of the Act. They will still be permitted unless they have a substantial effect on competition. 
A further concession to price lists issued by trade associations of more than 50 members will be that even if they have an anti-competitive effect they will be eligible for authorisation on the grounds of public benefit. The effect of these changes is that recommended price lists issued by many small business organisations will not be prohibited by the Act unless they both substantially lessen competition and are not in the public interest. 
The proposals of the Bill dealing with boycotts, which I have already mentioned, should also assist small business. It is now to be regarded as a prohibited primary boycott if a business and its supplier agree that the supplier will not supply a competitor of the business for the purpose of restricting or limiting the trade of that competitor. This reflects the Government's concern that powerful businesses should not be able to undermine the position of a small business competitor by such an arrangement. The Bill no longer provides for the abolition of section 49- the section which prohibits anticompetitive price discrimination. The Government has decided that section 49 should be retained in the interests of assisting the competitive position of small businesses. 
Finally in relation to small businesses, the present Bill retains those features of the previous Bill which gave special attention to agreements relating to collective acquisition and joint advertising schemes. Particularly in retail industries, such schemes have enabled small business to band together for the purpose of placing themselves in a stronger buying position. As I said last December, such schemes have played an important role in containing price increases to the consumer. 
Joint Ventures 
The Government has always considered that joint ventures have made a special contribution to the economy of this country. The Bill of last December attempted to give a special treatment to joint ventures. The present Bill has made further changes in this regard to overcome  a  number of technical deficiencies that were contained in the previous Bill. In addition, the Bill provides that the Trade Practices Commission is required to consider together, for the purposes of authorisation, all aspects of a particular joint venture which are placed before it simultaneously. 
Mergers 
I turn to mergers. On this matter, the Bill makes substantial changes both to the present law and to the previous Bill. The Government has decided that the categories of merger to be subject to the Act should be quite limited. There should be no unnecessary impediment, legislative or administrative, to the attainment of rationalisation of Australian industry. It is in Australia's best interest to achieve economies of scale and improved international competitiveness. The Bill now deals only with mergers which lead to a corporation achieving or being likely to achieve a position of control or domination of a market, or to acquisitions of competitors by such market dominating corporations which substantially strengthen the power of the corporation to control or dominate a market. 
As the law relating to mergers is now only to be concerned with questions of control or domination of a market, the procedure for clearance and the previously proposed $3m threshold test have been eliminated. This now means the total removal of the clearance procedure from the Act. This changed emphasis regarding mergers, and the changes regarding boycotts require a new authorisation test for those matters. That test will now oblige the Trade Practices Commission to be satisfied in all the circumstances that the merger or boycott results in such a benefit to the public that it should bc authorised. 
Some changes have also been made to Part VI of the Act- that is, remedies- in relation to remedies available following contravention of the merger provisions. The remedy of injunction is now to be available in these cases only upon the application of the Minister or the Trade Practices Commission. The availability of the injunctive remedy on the application of private persons and companies gave a powerful tool to opponents of the merger. It has been used as a device to defeat mergers, during the tactical battle between the parties, for reasons quite unrelated to competition. The Bill also now provides that the remedy of divestiture is available to any person, either as a primary application or as a consequence of other proceedings or findings. An application for divestiture must, however, be made within 3 years of the merger. 
Affirmative Disclosure and Corrective Advertising 
The previous Bill provided a new section 80a, to give a power to the court to order affirmative disclosure or corrective advertising, as a remedy for contraventions of the consumer protection provisions. That power has been criticised as being particularly inequitable in its open endedness. The new Bill provides a limitation of $50,000 on the amount of affirmative disclosure or corrective advertising which may be ordered in relation to a particular contravention or substantially related contraventions. 
Commencement Date 
I note the express provision that it will come into force on 1 July 1977. It is the hope of the Government that this Bill will be enacted during the current sittings of Parliament. 
Other Matters 
I turn now to matters which are not expressly dealt with by this Bill. On the recommendation of the Swanson Committee, the previous Bill contained provisions relating to the admission of business records as evidence in proceedings under the Trade Practices Act. The Government has now decided that these provisions should be more generally applicable and accordingly will seek to amend the Evidence Act 1 905 to achieve this end. In this way these rules of evidence will apply to proceedings under the Trade Practices Act. but also to a much wider range of proceedings. 
In my second reading speech on 8 December 1976 I mentioned that the Government had decided, in principle, to extend the Trade Practices Act to provide for manufacturers to be liable directly to consumers for breach of implied terms in consumer contracts. A draft amendment Bill on this subject has been prepared by the Government and it is my proposal to expose that draft legislation to the community for the purposes of public discussion of its terms. In that second reading speech I also mentioned that the Government was discussing, with State governments, the proposal of the Swanson Committee for substantially greater involvement by State government agencies in the administration and enforcement of the consumer protection provisions of this Act. The Government has accepted this recommendation in principle and discussions have already been held with the States about it. Individual State governments are presently considering their positions. No State government has yet indicated any final decision on the matter. 
It is common ground that the Trade Practices Act does not have universal application because of constitutional limitations. The Swanson Committee recommended that the Commonwealth should initiate consultations with State governments to achieve such application. The Government has decided to seek consultations with State governments. As I said at the start of this speech, this Bill has been prepared after extensive study and consultation. I hope it will receive the support of every honourable member in this House. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
My attention has been drawn to that article. I inform the honourable gentleman that the suggestion in the article that the Government has partially or otherwise reversed a decision taken, I think, by the McMahon Government to prohibit resale price maintenance is absolutely false. The author of the article totally misunderstood the difference between resale price maintenance and recommended price lists. He failed to understand that the practice of resale price maintenance involves the imposition of restrictions by a supplier of goods as to the minimum price at which a purchaser might resupply those goods, whereas the practice of recommending price lists involves the issuing of non-binding price lists by trade associations. The first practice imposes price rigidity; the latter practice can enable small business to compete more effectively. The author of the article would have produced a better exercise if he had carefully examined the provisions of the Bill. If he had done that he would have realised that the provision in the 1974 Act, which is the present law, prohibiting resale price maintenance has been left totally undisturbed in the amendment Bill. 
-The question is characteristic of the approach of the Opposition from the time that the Prime Minister and the Premiers made a call for a price-wage freeze. Let it be remembered that the response of the honourable member for Oxley to that initiative was beaten in speed only by the response of the senior vicepresident of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Ralston,  both of whom competed to be the first to condemn a proposal which at that time had the unanimous support of 3 marginally more successful Labor politicians- more successful than any of the honourable members opposite in this House. The honourable gentleman's question is, I think, typical of attempts by the Opposition to denigrate the attempt made by the Commonwealth Government and many people in Australia to make this proposal work. I think it worth noting that yesterday the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission considered in its deliberations the calling of a national conference as suggested by one of the parties to the hearing yesterday. The Commission said that it would not be appropriate in the circumstances. Naturally, the Commonwealth Government is disappointed that the submission it put was not fully acceded to. Nonetheless, we note with satisfaction the comments made by the Commission regarding its attitude towards increases in money wages during the period in which it will be considering the March consumer price index. 
It will be my intention to make a statement to the House this week regarding the Government's attitude to the current situation. Quite obviously the answer to the honourable gentleman's question as to a specific situation that he raises is no. I would have thought it was apparent from the very nature of the proposal in the first instance that the situation he alleges came within the province of the freeze obviously could not do so. It was never intended to come within the province of the freeze. Suggestions that the rise in share prices since 13 April constitutes a breach of the freeze result from a total misapprehension by the honourable gentleman as to the nature of the proposal in the first place. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The Commonwealth Crown Solicitor has advised me that there is insufficient evidence disclosed in the joint report to support proceedings, civil or criminal, being brought in the Australian Capital Territory. However, the question of proceedings in New South Wales is, I understand, still being considered by the New South Wales Government. In the circumstances, and because of limitations imposed by section 169 of the A.C.T. Companies Ordinance on my power to publish part only of the report, I have decided not to table the joint report in the Parliament. 
This matter is being considered in the context of the proposals for joint Commonwealth/State legislative and administrative action in relation to companies and the securities industry. 
Motor Vehicles: Sales Tax on Large Engines  (Question No. 162) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Australian Tyre Manufacturers' Association expressed its views on the recommendations contained in the Industries Assistance Commission's draft report at the public hearings held to consider that report on 23 and 24 November 1976. The IAC's final report on tyres has not been publicly released. 
(a) Yes; (b) Yes; (c) Yes; (d) Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

I was not aware of those reports. I will investigate them. I draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the fact that later today I will be making a statement about the general issue of which his question forms part. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House of the Government's current attitude towards the price/wage pause, particularly in the light of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's decision to proceed with the March quarter national wage case. The Government remains strongly of the view that the price/wage pause has the overwhelming support of the Australian community. A Morgan gallup poll conducted during the Anzac Day weekend disclosed that 75 per cent of the respondents supported the freeze. That figure included  62 per cent of people who indicated that they normally voted for the Labor Party. 
Despite the inevitable difficulties and complexities Australians saw in the joint call of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premiers a rare bipartisan gesture designed to respond to a national problem. The freeze drew rapid support from employer groups throughout Australia. Within 2 days of the freeze being announced representatives of every major employer organisation pledged their support for the freeze. 
I would like at this stage to record the Government's gratitude for the swift and generous response of a wide section of the business community so far as price restraint is concerned. I illustrate by pointing out that my Department in the past 3 weeks has been in touch with 104 companies requesting that they agree to deferrals of decisions on price applications before the Prices Justification Tribunal. In all but 2 cases agreement has been obtained. 
The Government does not underestimate the very significant financial sacrifices made by some companies in agreeing to our approach. In the light of such support from the community the 
Government believes its clear responsibility is to take all reasonable steps to achieve the objective so clearly envisaged by the 7 heads of government 3 weeks ago. That was a price pause matched by a wage pause. 
Quite clearly the decision to be made by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in respect of the March quarter national wage case is critical to the prospects of the freeze succeeding. The Government acknowledges that unless the March national wage case decision represents substantial reciprocity on the wages side it would be unreasonable to expect business to exercise the same level of restraint as applies at the present time. 
The Government was naturally disappointed that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission did not accede to its submission that the current hearing be postponed. Nevertheless the Commission has indicated that in deciding to proceed with the hearing it has in no way preempted the ultimate result of that hearing. The Government notes the Commission's indication that if possible awards of money increases in wages should be deferred until after a decision has been given on the March quarter figure. We also note the view of the Commission that at this stage it saw no useful purpose in calling a conference, as suggested by the Victorian Government. 
I now turn to the question of prices pending the Commission's decision on the March quarter figure. The Government renews its request to companies which had received approvals for price increases from the Prices Justification Tribunal prior to 13 April last not to implement those increases pending the outcome of the current wage case. In respect of those companies which at 13 April had price applications before, or which have subsequently submitted price applications to, the Prices Justification Tribunal, I inform the House that I have today sent messages to those companies asking them to agree to extend the decision date on their price notifications to 23 May. It is the Government's understanding that the March quarter national wage case decision will be available in sufficient time for it to have been assessed by the Government by that date. The Government expresses the hope that all companies in this category will respond to its request and that only those facing acute viability problems or those which, as a consequence of not increasing prices, are likely to retrench employees during the period before the Commission's decision will seek to exercise their current statutory right to receive a decision from the Prices Justification Tribunal prior to the 
Commission's decision on the case currently before it. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal will of course continue to examine price notifications currently before it or subsequently received so that as far as practicable decisions can proceed if it becomes apparent that there is insufficient reciprocity in respect of wages to match the level of price restraint now in force and which the Government hopes will remain in force pending the Commission's decision. It is entirely appropriate for the Tribunal to examine price notifications currently before it whilst the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission continues to hear a current national wage case. The Government recognises that the present circumstances create special problems for companies which deal in commodities or whose goods or services are critically dependent on fluctuations in import prices. It had een the Government's intention that if support in principle to the objective of a price-wage pause had been forthcoming from all relevant sections of the community the problems of these companies could have been amongst the areas to be examined by the special committee comprising representatives of employees, employers and the Prices Justification Tribunal which the Government had proposed establishing. 
As honourable members are aware the major peak councils of the trade union movement have not been prepared to support in principle the objective of a price-wage pause. In these circumstances it would not be appropriate to establish the committee. Nevertheless the Government believes that some mechanism should be available pending the decision on the current wage case to examine special problems faced by companies which deal in commodities or whose goods or services are critically dependent on fluctuations in import prices. Such of those companies whose turnover exceeds $30m per year are already subject to the notification procedures of the Prices Justification Act, and I have already explained the attitude of the Government towards all companies covered by the notification procedures of that Act. 
In respect of companies within the special category I have mentioned and which are not currently within the notification procedures of the Prices Justification Act, it is proposed that for the duration of the period of the current national wage case they accept the jurisdiction of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The basis is that if any such companies are in fact experiencing acute viability problems or face an employment situation of the type I have described above they should approach the Prices Justification Tribunal and accept the determination of that body regarding proposed price increases. I have discussed this proposal with the Acting  Chairman  of the Tribunal who has indicated that the Tribunal is prepared to participate in such an arrangement. 
I should, however, make it clear that this arrangement is designed to cope with what the Government believes to be a limited number of cases and that no company should expect a favourable determination from the Tribunal unless it has in fact clearly established that it will, during the period between now and the Commission's decision, experience acute viability problems or in fact as a consequence of not increasing prices actually retrench employees during that period. The request I made to the Prices Justification Tribunal on 14 April to defer decisions on price notifications before it pending agreement being reached on the pause remains subject only to what I have said earlier in this statement regarding companies experiencing acute viability or employment difficulties. The Government's instruction to its departments and agencies regarding increases in charges will of course remain fully in force. 
I should, in addition, make it clear that the pause in no way inhibits the practice of many retailers offering specials. To argue otherwise would be against the interests of consumers who benefit from the temporary price reductions involved in the practice of 'specials'. Naturally the relevant price of an item on 'special' as at 13 April would be the normal price prevailing in respect of that item prior to 13 April and the subsequent return of the item from the 'special' to the normal price does not constitute a breach of the pause. I again express the Government's appreciation of the support which was so readily forthcoming from such a wide spectrum of the community. I also express the hope that it will still be possible to achieve the effective implementation of the price-wage pause which the community demonstrably supports. I present the following paper: 
The Acting Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) As reported, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation arranged a $20m loan in conjunction with the Bank of New South Wales to P. T. International Nickel Indonesia. The loan which was provided under EFIC's export finance facility was funded by EFIC, $8m and the Bank of New South Wales, $12m, with the Bank's share guaranteed by EFIC. 
Yes. 
The principal suppliers under the loan were: 
B.H.P. 
Atco Structures Pty Ltd 
Standard Telephones and Cables Pty Ltd 
Tyree Industries Ltd 
James Hardie and Co. Pty Ltd 
Vickers Ruwolt. 
In all over 100 Australian companies were involved. 
I am advised that the United States Export-Import Bank requires, prior to disbursement of loans, a supplier certificate which certifies that the supplier did not give any discount, allowances, rebates, fees, payments or any other consideration to obtain the contract. 
No. To date, EFIC has not sought disclaimers from contractors in relation to the payment of bribes prior to loans being made. However, the Government and EFIC are currently studying international developments in relation to illicit payments in connection with trade transactions with a view to determining future policy in this area. 
No. The Corporation is not aware of any bribes or irregularities in connection with the loan in question or of any allegations to that effect. 
Subsequent to the loan referred to at (1), a further loan of $25m to P. T. International Nickel Indonesia has been negotiated. The only other loan to finance the sale of Australian goods to Indonesia was of $1.1 8m to Production Equipment Ltd (PROK). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No official separate statistics are available on the sale of passenger motor vehicles fitted with eight cylinder engines. 
(a) Production of 8-cylinder engines is not separately recorded by the Commonwealth Statistician. 
Engines are not separately classified in the Customs Tariff according to number of cylinders or conformation. 
At the commencement of 1960 the rates of duty applicable to engines for passenger motor vehicles were- 35 per cent-General Tariff 27.5 per cent- Preferential Tariff 
On 1 9 July 1 973 the rates of duty were reduced to- 26.25 per cent-General Tariff 20.62 per cent-Preferential Tariff 1 8.75 per cent-Canada Preferential Tariff being the effect of the 'across the board' 25 per cent cut in Tariffs 
With effect from 1 July 1974 the above rates were rounded' to become- 26 per cent-General Tariff 2 1 per cent-Preferential Tariff 19 per cent-Canada Preferential Tariff 
On 21 January 1975, after the IAC report on Passenger Motor Vehicles had been considered, engines for passenger motor vehicles became classified according to whether they are used as original equipment or as replacement equipment. Original equipment engines admitted under by-law dutiable at rates of- 25 per cent-General Tariff 25 per cent-Preferential Tariff 1 7.5 per cent-Canada Preferential Tariff 
Otherwise dutiable at rates of 35 per cent- General Tariff 35 per cent-Preferential Tariff 27.5 per cent- Canada Preferential Tariff 
Replacement equipment engines are dutiable at rates of- 25 per cent-General Tariff 25 per cent-Preferential Tariff 1 7.5 per cent- Canada Preferential Tariff. 
No separate official statistics are available for the sale of passenger motor vehicles fitted with eight cylinder engines. Production statistics of locally produced finished motor vehicles with an engine capacity of 4000cc or over (which includes both six and 8-cylinder engines) indicate that there has been no significant increase of production in this category since July 1 976. 
The Government is considering the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Petroleum in its 4th Report. 
See(4)above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) and (b) Yes, such a committee under the chairmanship of  Mr K.  R. Cork, FCA, FICM, has been set up by the Secretary for Trade,  Mr Edmund  Dell. In addition to the functions referred to in the question the committee is required- 
to suggest possible less formal procedures as alternatives to bankruptcy and company winding up proceedings in appropriate circumstances; and 
to make recommendations. 
The Government is currently considering a number of proposals for the amendment of the Bankruptcy Act but it has not yet made any decision on these proposals. When the Government receives the report by the Law Reform Commission on the question of 'consumers in debt', that report will also be given full consideration in relation to any recommendations for the amendment of the Bankruptcy Act. In addition, I have recently reached agreement with the State Ministers responsible for companies and securities on a general framework for a co-operative Commonwealth/State scheme for legislation and administration in the fields of company law and the regulation of the securities industry. The details of this scheme are now being worked out. Having regard to these developments, I do not consider that it would be appropriate, at this stage, to establish a committee with similar terms of reference to that of the United Kingdom Insolvency Law Reform Committee. However, I am keeping this whole area under review and I have instructed my Department to monitor the work of the United Kingdom Committee. 
The Australian Law Reform Commission will very shortly be making its report on the reference on 'consumers in debt ' whereas the United Kingdom committee is just commencing what is expected to be a two to three year programme. In any case, the procedures it uses in conducting its enquiries into matters referred to it are a matter for the Law Reform Commission itself. 
Apart from an amendment of their provisions in relation to the debts of municipalities, which are not subject to the bankruptcy laws in Australia, there have, as far as I am aware, been no recent amendments to the bankruptcy laws of the United States of America. However, proposed amendments to such laws, including a bill presented to the House of Representatives on 4 January 1977, are being continuously monitored by my Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The representatives were from the Victorian Law Department; Depanment of Consumer Affairs, N.S.W.; Consumer Affairs Bureau, W.A.; Attorney-General's Depanment, Tasmania; Depanment of Justice, Queensland; Depanment of the Capital Territory, Canberra; AttorneyGeneral's Depanment, Canberra and Depanment of Business and Consumer Affairs, Canberra. 
On 8 February 1977 and 24 March 1977. 
The report has been completed and circulated by the N.S.W. Government for comment by interested persons. 
The Committee had access to this report. Tabling of the report is a matter for the New South Wales Government. 
That proposed legislation was before the Committee. 
It would be inappropriate for me to comment on the Committee's recommendations at this stage. 
No. 
9) No decision has been made on this matter. 
The Swanson Committee recommendations dealt with unconscionable conduct. The Peden report deals with a law for harsh and unconscionable contracts. 
All States and Territories have hire purchase and money lenders legislation which have certain provisions relating to harsh and unconscionable contracts. In addition, in New South Wales there is the Industrial Arbitration Act 1940 (section 88F) and in South Australia the Consumer Credit Act 1972 (section 46). 
On the information available at present the United Kingdom does not appear to have any general statutory law regulating 'harsh and unconscionable' contracts. The question of the application of the common law is a matter upon which conflicting opinions have been expressed. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
2 ) A full answer to this part of the question would involve the giving of legal advice which it is not appropriate for me to do. 
No person has complained to me of being misled by the trustee for Patrick Partners. The Bankruptcy Act does not require a controlling trustee or a trustee to advise creditors of the effect of a deed of arrangement. Indeed, if it did it would place an intolerable burden on the controlling trustee or the trustee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Commonwealth decided that the responsible course of action was to seek the agreement of the States to an effective co-operative scheme. An important element of this approach is that it does not involve a formal reference of power by the States to the Commonwealth. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, I have seen one such report. Additionally, I received representations some months ago as a result of this type of game being mentioned in a current affairs radio program. 
This is the particular game referred to in the report I have seen. 
I am not aware of the psychological effect such games may have on players. 
Whilst the concept of a 'game' based on injury or killing people is repugnant, this in itself is not grounds for imposing an import prohibition. 
Furthermore, unless the machines are intrinsically dangerous, for example through being unsafe electrically, there is no provision in the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations which would empower me to prevent their importation. 
However, I believe the good sense and good taste of the Australian community will prove the effective counter to any move to introduce such unsavoury games into this country. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the White Paper on manufacturing industry. I ask leave of the House to make a statement relating to that document on behalf of my colleague,  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
I am aware of some very extravagant wage claims, as the honourable gentleman puts it, being made in the building industrywage claims which, if acceded to by the building industry, would be quite outside the indexation guidelines. The Government would regard any such agreement by companies in that industry as being so out of step with our inflation policy that it would forthwith send reference to the Prices Justification Tribunal requiring that body to investigate the pricing practices of those companies. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 14(1977). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1 966. The Proposals give effect to the Government's decision on the recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on monochrome television receivers and certain electronic components. The effect of this decision is that existing rates of duty applying to monochrome television sets and certain types of electrical capacitors will be maintained. Minimum rates of duty will apply to electrolytic capacitors and monochrome cathode ray tubes for use as original components. The rate for mounted loudspeakers is reduced to 25 per cent while a rate of 1 5 per cent, or, if higher, 50c each, will apply to unmounted loudspeakers. A comprehensive summary of changes contained in the proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An interim report only has been made by  Mr Justice  Brennan on the 6 companies. I am currently considering what action might be taken in relation to this report having in mind the considerable overlap between it and the various New South Wales investigations. In this connection the New South Wales Attorney-General and I agreed last February that there should be full co-operation between officers of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission and my Department in relation to the examination of the reports the identification of areas in which further investigation is necessary and any other further action that may be desirable. 
The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of the companies which have been filed with the various State and Territory Registrars of Companies and Commissioners for Corporate Affairs are on public record. To collect and assemble the information would be a major task and it has not been the practice of successive Governments to authorise the expenditure of money and effort involved in assembling such information on a general basis. 
Inexco Ltd and Narimba Corporation Ltd have filed statutory reports under section 135 of the Companies Ordinance. Directors' reports have been lodged for each of the companies listed in pan ( 1 ) of the question whenever those companies have lodged profit and loss accounts and balance sheets. 
The following information has been obtained in relation to Australia: 
Inexco Ltd 
Incorporated in Australian Capital Territory Registered as a foreign company in New South Wales A liquidator was appointed on 2 October 1973. 
Intercontinental Credit Ltd Incorporated in Australian Capital Territory Registered as a foreign company in New South Wales A liquidator was appointed on 2 October 1 973. 
Narimba Corporation Ltd Incorporated in Australian Capital Territory Registered as a foreign company in the Northern Territory and New South Wales 
A liquidator was appointed on 2 October 1 973. 
Jetair Australia Ltd Incorporated in New South Wales Registered as a foreign company in Queensland. Northern Territory, Australian Capital Territory and South Australia 
Was registered as foreign company in Victoria but ceased  business from I March 1974 
Was registered in Tasmania as a foreign company but struck off as defunct on 15 October 1972 A liquidator was appointed on 2 October 1 973. 
Landmark Corporation Ltd Incorporated in New South Wales Registered as a foreign company in the Northern Territory Was registered as a foreign company in Victoria and Tasmania. 
Spinifex Explorations Pty Ltd 
Incorporated in New South Wales 
Registered as a foreign company in the Northern Territory, Tasmania, The Australian Capital Territory 
It was also registered as a foreign company in New South Wales, South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia. It is now a recognised company in Western Australia. Victoria and New South Wales. 
I have not had investigated the question whether the companies are registered in other countries. 
5 ) I am not aware of any conviction of directors or officers of these companies. 
No proceedings have been brought in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory against the directors or officers of these companies. I understand that several proceedings have been instituted against some of the officers of some of these companies for alleged breaches of New South Wales legislation. 
Agreements With the States (Question No. 189) 
The Acting Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

Yes. The address summarises progress achieved in the North Korean economy during 1976 and claims that 1976 witnessed the complete fulfilment of North Korea 's Six Year Plan. However, the address also draws attention to areas of the domestic economy needing particular attention during 1977. 
The Government is not aware of any debts owing by North Korea to Australian companies for goods and services supplied. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The contents of draft Bills are confidential. 
Representations on the 'Swanson' Report were invited by the Government. Details of particular representations received are not made public by the Government. 
3 ) The model legislation covering consumer credit, which is being developed by a Commonwealth/State Working Group, has not been finalised and the outstanding recommendations of the 'Swanson' Committee are being considered by the Government. Any question of conflict will be considered at the appropriate time. 
Consumers in such circumstances would have the same recourse as they currently have under State and Commonwealth legislation in relation to such matters. 
The methods adopted by the 'Swanson' Committee, unless described in its report which was tabled in the Parliament on 7 September 1976, are confidential to the Committee and are matters upon which I have no knowledge. 
No. 
Yes; yes. 
Yes. 
Yes; it is not proposed to table the report of the Committee in the Parliament. 
Yes; the article is an accurate representation of the statements I made at that time: the article did not state that the Government proposed to remove all merger provisions from the Act and no legislation to give effect to such a proposal will be introduced into the Parliament. (I l)and ( 12) See answer to question ( 10) above. 
No. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers. 
The honourable member raises a fair point. I will take the opportunity at a later stage to respond to that question. 
Progress reported. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause, add the following sub-clause: '(2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 applies, and shall be deemed always to have applied, to and in relation to a President of the Trade Practices Tribunal who retired as a Judge of the Australian Industrial Court as if he had been Chief Judge of that Court immediately before his retirement. '. 
The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the pension paid to an ex-president of the Trade Practices Tribunal is related to the salaries of judges of the new Federal Court. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses 22A and 22B. 
I wish to respond to the matters raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  but for a reason that will be understood by the manager of Opposition business in this House I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour this day. 
-The purpose of this amendment is very simple. It has nothing to do with David Jones Pty Ltd or Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the qualifications required for a non-residential member of the Trade Practices Tribunal shall be precisely the same as those required for a member of the Trade Practices Commission. It is a wholly logical, wholly unexceptional and wholly reasonable amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 22. 
Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections ( 1 ) and (4). 
I move: 
) Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: '21. Section 3 1 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting sub-section ( 1 ) and substituting the following sub-section: '( 1 ) A person shall not be appointed as a presidential member of the Tribunal unless he is a Judge of a Federal Court, not being the High Court or a court of an external Territory.'; and 
by inserting in sub-section (2), after the word 'commerce', the words, 'economics, law'.'. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Tourist Commission estimates that the recently introduced APEX fare could lead to an increase of approximately $600,000 in Australia's travel deficit for 1977. However, it should be noted that the estimate is a very broad one and other variables may affect the final outcome. 
I move amendment No. 26: 
After proposed sub-section (5), insert the following subsection: ' "(6) This section does not apply to an acquisition by a corporation of shares in the capital, or of assets, of a body corporate that is related to the corporation. ' ' '. 
Earlier in the debate I explained the basis of the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
I move amendment No. 25: 
In proposed section 50 (4) (b), omit "the contract" (second occurring), substitute "the provisions of the contract relating to the acqquisition ' '. 
I have already spoken to the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
I welcome the opportunity afforded to me by the motion moved by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to say something about the issues involved in this legislation for the first time since it or its predecessor was introduced into this House. The honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  both put to the House that the complexity of this legislation and, more particularly, a number of amendments which the Government has circulated today, forms a basis for this House rejecting a proposition that this legislation should pass through this House this week and that rather the legislation should be referred to a select committee of the House. I think in response to that proposition that it ought to be recorded that it was in April of last year that the Government announced the terms of reference for a committee of inquiry into the trade practices legislation. That Committee sat for a period of 4 months and received about 250 submissions. It presented its report to me on 30 August and that report was made public. As the Minister responsible in the area, I received a large number of submissions on the Swanson report. As a result of those submissions and the Government's consideration of the Swanson recommendations, on 8 December we introduced a Bill into this House with the express purpose of exposing that Bill to scrutiny and comment. It was not the intention or the belief of the Government at that time that the Bill as introduced in December would be the final form of the Trade Practices Amendment Bill. Indeed, by adopting that procedure, the Government afforded to those people, both in this Parliament and in the community, who were interested in this subject, an opportunity beyond the opportunity normally afforded by governments to allow scrutiny and comment of important legislation. What I am saying is that in respect of the Government's treatment of this measure, there has been more opportunity afforded for public scrutiny and scrutiny by members of this House than is normally the case with legislation of any government. If the honourable member for Port Adelaide casts his mind back to some of the complex legislation that was presented by the Whitlam Governmentlegislation to establish the National Corporations and Exchange Commission and legislation to establish a national compensation scheme- he will remember that the opportunity for scrutiny in debate that was allowed on that occasion in respect of the subject matter involved was minuscule compared with the opportunity that has been provided on this occasion. We had a fully fledged debate at the second reading stage on the principles of trade practices legislation at the beginning of this session. It is true that changes have been made and that in legislation of this nature, as the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for Port Adelaide know, it is necessary that changes, many of them of a technical nature, be made right up until the Bill goes into its final stage. With such legislation it is always possible to improve drafting to clarify meaning. One should not adopt an attitude that once legislation is introduced into the House one must completely close one's mind to the possibility of accepting further amendments. Indeed as late as yesterday and this morning I had discussions with representatives of the trade union movement regarding some of the provisions of the Bill. Does the honourable member for Port Adelaide assert that having introduced this legislation I should not have been prepared to consult the representatives of the trade union movement? 
-Ought to be notified? I am not talking about notification; I am talking about a readiness to engage in the commodity that the Opposition is always extolling, and that is consultation. We should not get to the situation where a government, having introduced legislation into the House, says that that is the final word on the matter and it will not consult anybody outside in the community who may be affected by that legislation. I do not believe that that is the correct way of approaching legislation. I believe that in respect of this measure the Government has allowed an opportunity for consideration of proposed amendments and amendments beyond what is normally provided. Indeed, when the facility of enabling a debate on the December Bill was made available the comment was made in a number of areas that that sort of facility ought to be employed more often. That facility was not employed when the Whitlam Government was in power. It is a facility that has been employed in respect of the Aboriginal land rights legislation. It is a facility that is being employed in respect of the trade practices legislation. I do not believe that it is appropriate in the circumstances for this legislation to be delayed by the device recommended by the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide asked about the rights of the Opposition. In response I say that this Government has demonstrated a greater respect for the rights of the Opposition than was demonstrated by the previous Government. I remember clearly that in the space of 2 hours the national compensation legislation of the previous Government was rammed through this House without the benefit of a proper debate, without the benefit of the type of scrutiny and examination that has been afforded to the Opposition in respect of this measure. We have given to the Opposition in respect of this and many other measures a far greater degree of respect than was accorded by some- I do not say all- of the Ministers in the previous Government. 
The Government rejects this motion. I do not believe any purpose is served by referring this matter to a select committee. It has been the subject of scrutiny, consideration and comment by a wide section of the community. There has been  an opportunity since December for members of the Opposition to focus on the principles that have been involved. I believe that the proposal of the honourable member for Port Adelaide is designed to delay the House's consideration of this legislation. It is a proposal that I believe should be rejected. 
-The question raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is very relevant to the decision of the Government to bind from now on the commercial operations of the Commonwealth Government as far as the Trade Practices Act is concerned. I point out to the honourable gentleman that this decision of the Government does not disturb the position of agencies of the Commonwealth Government which enjoy a monopoly as a result of the statutory provisions governing the operation of those agencies. Perhaps the most relevant example of that would be the operations of Telecom Australia and of Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia under the 2-airline agreement. 
It has never been the intention of the Government to disguise the effect of this change. I put it higher than a change; it is an important reform in trade practices legislation. The Government does not assert that it has eliminated all monopoly situations as far as government or semigovernment activities are concerned but this is a significant step in the right direction. It accords with the concept that if a government is heard to assert to the private enterprise community that competition legislation is good for the community generally, then it should be heard to accept that that same competition legislation should, as far as is reasonably practicable, bind the operations of the Government itself. Undoubtedly, the new provisions at some stage will be the subject of some examination by the courts and by the Trade Practices Commission. The policy intention of the Government- I believe that policy intention has been effectively translated into the legislation- is very clear and that is to treat in an even-handed fashion the commercial operations and the behaviour of sections of the community in a commercial environment. 
If competition legislation is regarded- as this Government regards it- as being something quite important and fundamental, then the community ought to be prepared to accept the same restraints as a government where it is operating in a commercial environment. Those are the restraints which the Government requires private enterprise to accept. In saying that I do not assert that all government monopolies, and what so many people would regard as preferred positions for the commercial operations of government, have been eliminated. Obviously, the effect of the amendment is not to override the statutory monopoly enjoyed under any particular piece of legislation. I put it no higher than that. I think the change is an important change. It is a change of principle. It is a change which I hope will draw support from both sides of the Committee. I think it is the essence of even-handed treatment that if we assert that something is good for one section of the community because it serves the public interest, we ought to be prepared to accept that those same rules and restraints apply, as far as is practical, to our own behaviour. 
I have 3 amendments to clause 5 which reads: 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), before the definition of 'authorization', the following definitions: - 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the definitions of 'services' and 'share' and substituting the following definitions:- ' "services" includes any rights (including rights and interests in relation to real or personal property), benefits, privileges or facilities that are to be provided, granted or conferred in trade or commerce and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes the rights, benefits, privileges or facilities that are to be provided, granted or conferred under- 
a contract for or in relation to- 
the performance of work (including work of a professional nature), whether with or without the supply of goods; 
the provision of, or of the use or enjoyment of facilities for, amusement, entertainment, recreation or instruction; or 
the conferring of rights, benefits or privileges for which remuneration is payable in the form of a royalty, tribute, levy or similar exaction; 
by omitting sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) and substituting the following sub-sections: - '(2) In this Act- 
a reference to engaging in conduct shall be read as a reference to doing or refusing to do any act, including the making of or giving effect to a contract or arrangement, the arriving at or giving effect to an understanding, the requiring of the giving of, or the giving of, a covenant, the engaging in a practice, the supplying or acquiring of goods or services or the acquiring of any real or personal property; 
a reference to conduct, when that expression is used as a noun otherwise than as mentioned in paragraph (a), shall be read as a reference to the doing of or the refusing to do any act, including the making of or giving effect to a contract or arrangement, the arriving at or giving effect to an understanding, the requiring of the giving of, or the giving of, a covenant, the engaging in a practice, the supplying or acquiring of goods or services or the acquiring of any real or personal property; '(3) Where a provision of this Act is expressed to render a provision of a contract, or to render a covenant, unenforceable if the provision of the contract or the covenant has a particular effect, that provision of this Act applies in relation to the provision or the contract or the covenant whenever the provision of the contract or the covenant has that effect notwithstanding that the provision of the contract or the covenant did not have that effect at an earlier time or will not or may not have that effect at a later time. 
I ask for leave to move those amendments together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
1 ) Omit from the proposed definition of 'services' all the words occurring after the word 'includes' and before paragraph (a) of the proposed definition, substitute 'any rights (including rights in relation to, and interests in, real or personal property), benefits, privileges or facilities that are, or are to be, provided, granted or conferred in trade or commerce, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes the rights, benefits, privileges or faculties that are, or are to be, provided, granted or conferred under-'. 
In paragraph (o), omit proposed paragraphs (a) and ( b ), substitute the following paragraphs: . '(a) a reference to engaging in conduct shall be read as a reference to doing or refusing to do any act, including the making of, or the giving effect to a provision of, a contract or arrangement, the arriving at, or the giving effect to a provision of, an understanding or the requiring of the giving of, or the giving of, a convenant; 
a reference to conduct, when that expression is used as a noun otherwise than as mentioned in paragraph (a), shall be read as a reference to the doing of or the refusing to do any act, including the making of, or the giving effect to a provision of, a contract or arrangement, the arriving at, or the giving effect to a provision of, an understanding or the requiring of the giving of, or the giving of, a covenant; '. 
Omit proposed sub-section (3), substitute the following sub-section: '( 3 ) Where a provision of this Act is expressed to render a provision of a contract, or to render a covenant, unenforceable if the provision of the contract or the covenant has or is likely to have a particular effect, that provision of this Act applies in relation to the provision of the contract or the covenant at any time when the provision of the contract or the covenant has or is likely to have that effect notwithstanding that- 
at an earlier time the provision of the contract or the covenant did not have that effect or was not regarded as likely to have that effect; or 
b) the provision of the contract or the covenant will not or may not have that effect at a later time. '. 
The first amendment relates to the definition of services. It is a technical amendment only. It is more usual to speak of interests in property than of interests in relation to property and the addition of the words 'or' and 'are' in lines 12 and 15 on page 4 of the Bill avoids any suggestion that services are only, for the purpose of the Act, those services to be provided at a future date. 
Amendment No. (2) deals with the meaning of 'conduct' and 'engaging in conduct'. The effect of those amendments is to amend subsection 4(2) of the Act. Firstly, this applies to the provisions of the agreements rather than to the entirety of the agreement. Such a result is consistent with the approach adopted elsewhere in the Act. Secondly, it removes reference to engaging in a practice, the supplying or acquiring of goods or services or the acquiring of real or personal property. The balance which remains in the subsection after those amendments is all that is necessary to ensure that conduct includes matters in relation to agreements although such matters may not be properly thought of as conduct. The other material which will be deleted by the amendment might raise accidental inferences leading to an undesirable narrow interpretation -for example, that conduct did not include price discrimination. 
The amendments are technical and drafting amendments. They do not represent, in common with most of the amendments which the Government is now moving, any changes, significant or otherwise, in policy. They are designed to remove drafting and technical ambiguities and, one hopes, to make the Act a little less ambiguous and a little clearer. The third of this series of amendments to clause 5 deals with sub-section (3). This amendment is also technical. It ensures that the provisions of section 45 and section 45B apply to such provisions whenever but only while the provisions have or are likely to have a prohibitive effect. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
After section 4 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: - '4a. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a body corporate shall, subject to sub-section (3), be deemed to be a subsidiary of another body corporate if- '4p."A provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding, or of a proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, shall be taken to be an exclusionary provision for the purposes of this Act if the provision has the purpose of restricting or limiting- 
the supply of goods or services to, or the acquisition of goods or services from, particular persons; or 
the supply of goods or services to, or the acquisition of goods or services from, particular persons in particular circumstances or on particular conditions, by all of any of the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding or of the proposed parties to the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding or, if a party or proposed party is a body corporate, by a body corporate that is related to the body corporate. '4j. In this Actfa) a reference to a joint venture is a reference to an activity in trade or commerce- 
carried on jointly by 2 or more persons, whether or not in partnership; or 
carried on by a body corporate formed by two or more persons for the purpose of enabling those persons to carry on that activity jointly by means of their joint control, or ownership of shares in the capital, of that body corporate; and 
I ask for leave to move amendments Nos 4 and 5 together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
Omit proposed section 4D, substitute the following section: '4d. ( 1 ) A provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding, or of a proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, shall be taken to be an exclusionary provision for the purposes of this Act if- 
the contract or arrangement was made, or the understanding was arrived at, or the proposed contract or arrangement is to be made, or the proposed understanding is to be arrived at, between persons any two or more of whom are competitive with each other; and 
the provision has the purpose of preventing, restricting or limiting- 
the supply of goods or services to, or the acquisition of goods or services from, particular persons; or 
the supply of goods or services to, or the acquisition of goods or services from, particular persons in particular circumstances or on particular conditions, by all or any of the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding or of the proposed parties to the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding or, if a party or proposed party is a body corporate, by a body corporate that is related to the body corporate. '(2) A person shall be deemed to be competitive with another person for the purposes of this section if the firstmentioned person or a body corporate that is related to that person is, or is likely to be, in competition, in relation to the supply or acquisition of goods or services, with the other person or with a body corporate that is related to the other person.'. 
In proposed section 4J (a) (ii), before 'ownership', insert 'by means of their'. 
The first of these amendments could not be strictly categorised as purely technical. It deals with the definition of exclusionary provisions. Clause 6 deals with the definition of exclusionary provisions and the effect of the amendment is to provide that only provisions of agreements between competitors or likely competitors shall be capable of being taken to be exclusionary provisions. An exclusionary provision is a provision which has the purpose of preventing, restricting or limiting business dealings with the target persons. The word 'preventing* has been added to include the situation where the provision bars all dealings with those persons. As will be apparent to honourable members, the effect of this amendment which the Government presents is to limit the operation of the exclusionary provisions to what could commonly be called a horizontal situation and to take out of the application of the prohibition of exclusionary provisions any element of dealing with vertical conduct. The reason for this is that the Government, after further consideration and some submissions, formed the view that if the amendment were not made it might be possible for a problem to arise in relation to exclusive dealing conduct which, it is the clear intention and purpose of the Government, and we have made no secret of it, should be dealt with entirely under section 47. 
If the more expansive definition of exclusionary provisions had been left in the Act, one of the unintended by-products of leaving it in that situation would have been that certain exclusive dealing conduct which the Government intended should be governed by section 47 would in fact have been caught by the operation of section 45. The effect of redrawing the definition and restricting it to horizontal situations has been to make it far less likely that that type of consequence would ensue. It is no secret that the Government's policy intention has been that exclusive dealing should be dealt with exclusively by section 47, and from as early as the deliberations of the Swanson Committee the view has been that section 45 conduct should be separated as far as possible from section 47 conduct. The approach embodied in the amendment I have just moved is totally consistent with that view. While the substance and the words of the amendment are new, they are not new in concept and are entirely consistent with the concept that first appeared in the Swanson Committee recommendations, then in the December Bill, and again in the Bill I introduced 2 weeks ago. This amendment is to ensure that the policy objective is quite clear. 
The second amendment, amendment No. 5, which deals with clause 6 of the Bill, I regard as a technical amendment. It is to remove a potential, although very unlikely, possibility of a misinterpretation that the partners in a joint venture company might have to hold their shares in joint ownership. I believe it is fair to categorise that as a technical amendment. 
In response to the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  I state quickly that I will have something further to say about the Government's approach to exclusive dealing when we reach the provisions of the Bill that deal with it. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  asked about a situation in which companies may be in competition at a particular level and in which also one of those companies, as well as being in competition at that level, may operate at another level. I think he used the example of a retailer engaged only in retailing who was in competition with a company that is both a retailer and a wholesaler. I think the appropriate response to the honourable gentleman is that the design of the amendment is intended to cover a situation in which people are in competition at the same level. If a company operated at both the wholesale and retail levels and it is in competition at one of those levels with another company, and an agreement is entered into between them in respect of the particular level of conduct involved, that is obviously the type of horizontal arrangement which ought to be the subject of the operation of the exclusionary provision. Whilst I acknowledge that this could have the effect of possibly striking at an arrangement between a company that is both a wholesaler and a retailer, the only way in which an exclusionary provision prohibition can be applied on a horizontal basis is to have a provision to this effect. 
I can assure the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  that this is certainly not the intention. Whilst the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)-  I do not say this unkindly- finds it difficult to accept my assurances on the effect of certain provisions, I hope that the honourable member for Higgins will accept my assurances. Obviously what I think is conclusive in the matter is that in the type of example that the honourable gentleman speaks of there are no persons who are the target of the conduct. The whole object of an exclusionary provision is an agreement between two or more people so to arrange things as to exclude the activities and the access of other people. I believe that in the example the honourable member has cited it would be extremely difficult to identify the people who had been singled out as the target of the conduct. 
I say to the honourable member for Corio that I will not enter into undue debate with him as to what he believes to be the Opposition's understanding of this amendment except to observe that I think the honourable member for Grayndler exhibited a fairly good understanding of what was involved in the Government's amendment. He expressed support for one aspect of the amendment and opposition to another aspect but I did not get the impression as I listened to the honourable member for Grayndler that he found any extraordinary difficulty in understanding precisely what was involved in the amendment. Obviously, because of the nature of this statute there will be argument throughout this entire debate and argument even after the debate is concluded, no matter whether it is concluded tonight or in 6 months time, as to what the Act in its amended form in certain areas means. Notwithstanding the arguments which the honourable member for Corio has put, I do not believe that the change in this area is of such a nature that it is not possible to form a view as to whether one supports or opposes the change. The speech of the honourable member for Grayndler demonstrated fairly clearly that he was able to grasp what was involved, so much so that he was able to identify those areas of the amendment that he liked and those areas that he did not like. 
I shall respond to the  invitation by the  honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Before doing so, I shall, to use the words of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  set the record straight. I should like to make it very clear at the beginning of this debate that we are proceeding on entirely the wrong premise, if the Opposition categorises every amendment that the Government is making to the present Act as being in some way an attack on the performance or the integrity of the Trade Practices Commission. Just because an amendment to legislation might alter the role of the Trade Practices Commission under the new Act, this does not mean that the Government is unhappy with the way in which the Trade Practices Commission has discharged its functions. 
I am unable to recollect all those rhetorical speeches I am alleged to have made during 1975 about the role of the Trade Practices Commission. One speech I do remember making in 1975 about the trade practices legislation concerned the behaviour of the former AttorneyGeneral in directing, without giving any reasons, the granting of 3 merger applications. I repeat: No reasons were given. The Trade Practices Commission itself felt so strongly about the matter that it alluded to it in its annual report. I make it quite clear that the fact that the Government has decided to abolish public hearings does not mean that it is unhappy with the Trade Practices Commission. The role of the Commission is to administer the legislation. The role of the Government is to determine what the shape of the legislation should be. That is a traditional and wholly proper division and demarcation of responsibilities between a government and a statutory authority. 
This Government respects the role and the integrity of the Trade Practices Commission in discharging its functions in respect of particular cases. Equally, it naturally expects that the relationship between the Government and the Commission will be upon the basis that changes to legislation are the exclusive and total responsibility of the government but, naturally, a responsibility discharged in circumstances in which in appropriate cases the government will, as this Government has done, seek the advice of the Commission and its members. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide asked why we are abolishing public hearings. This is an on balance decision. Arguments can be advanced in favour of retaining public hearings. The arguments he alluded to in respect of the building society, the brewery and the oil company cases contained matters of considerable public interest. It is also fair to say that they involved a situation in which, because of the comparative informality of the proceedings allegations and charges could be made about commercial conduct which might not have been made if stricter rules of evidence applied. Whilst some gentlemen on the other side of the House may not believe that it matters if the commercial reputation of a company is impugned carelessly and without foundation and that is reported in the Press, some people on this side of the House believe that a company, like a person, is entitled to retain a good name until it does, in fact, transgress the law. 
I do not deny that there are arguments in favour of keeping public hearings. On balance, the Government has taken the view that to those parties who are involved in public hearings there is expense. It is no answer for the honourable member for Grayndler to say that it is the companies who have engaged the senior counsel. Why would they not do so? It is their rights which are at stake. It is their proposed commercial action which might be under challenge or under censure. Naturally, they are entitled to seek, ought to seek, and, understandably, will seek the type of professional advice which is commensurate with the importance to them. I stress again, as was stressed in the Swanson report, and as was stressed by me when the Government's intentions in this direction were first made clear, that we are not dealing with a judicial body. We are dealing with a body which makes some determinations of fact. We are dealing with a body whose decisions are appealable to the Trade Practices Commission which is a judicial body, a body whose hearings will naturally continue to be heard in public and a body whose decisions in turn are appealable to higher courts. So we are not in any sense creating a closed shop. 
It is for that reason that on balance, recognising that there are arguments in favour of retaining public hearings but also recognising that the arguments against are also very strong, the Government decided to accept the recommendation of the Swanson Committee, noting, of course, as it is fair to do in this context, that in future there will be a system of, as it were, compulsory conferences between Commissioners and parties before the Commission. I am not suggesting that the one is a total exchange for the other. I am not implying, and the Government does not imply, any attack. I reject the suggestion that we have launched any attack on the way in which the Commission has conducted itself. We have formed the view on balance that public hearings ought to go. We do not believe that this compromises any principle. We believe that the fact that people can appeal preserves the integrity of the system. 
On balance we believe that there will be cost savings both as far as the Commission is concerned and as far as those involved in the hearings are concerned. That is not unimportant because the burdens of information gathering that government imposes on private enterprise are getting larger every day. I do not think we can just blithely say that it is unimportant because it is not unimportant. Governments make regular and persistent demands on companies and private enterprise generally for information. I think that from time to time there ought to be a stocktaking on a cost-benefit basis as to whether some of those demands are justified. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 20 (Commission to comply with directions of Minister and requirements of the Parliament). 
The only change that is to be made to the provision that is presently section 29-1 will use a shorthand expression and say that that is the Labor Government provision so that we know that we are talking about the present Act as opposed to the previous Bill- is that a proviso is to be inserted that directions may be given as to special considerations which will prevail in respect of certain authorisation activities of the Trade Practices Commission. I draw a very real distinction between the power that currently exists in the Act for the Minister to direct the granting of a merger and the general power to give directions as to matters that in general should be taken into account in determining authorisation matters. 
-If the honourable gentleman allows me to continue my remarks I hope to be able to enlighten him. I was drawing a distinction between giving a Minister a power to direct that a particular case- in other words, a merger between company A and company B- should proceed and a situation in which a Minister has a power to say to the Commission: 'In determining all merger applications or all exclusive dealing matters you ought to take into account the following factors'. I should have thought that it would be obvious to honourable members that a situation in which a Minister has the power in effect to determine the fate of a particular merger by a precise instruction to the Commissionwhich is the situation under the present law- is an entirely different proposition from a situation in which a Minister has a power to say to the Commission: 'In determining your authorisations in respect of a particular category of conduct we want you to take these criteria into account'. I remind the honourable gentleman that, in the context of the Industries Assistance Commission, there is all the world of difference between the Minister having the power to request the IAC in the future to take into account the employment consequences of its recommendations, which I think is a wholly proper power, and the type of power that would be involved if the Minister were to say to the Industries Assistance Commission: 'We want you to recommend a particular level of assistance '. 
I concede the honourable gentleman's interjection that the IAC is an advisory body and we have total power. Nonetheless, in terms of the laying down of guidelines that might influence the nature of the Commission's recommendations, I believe that one can still draw an analogy. I would defend very strongly this proviso as being quite different from the type of thing that we are proposing to repeal insofar as it affects mergers. I would argue that the Trade Practices Commission, like the Industries Assistance Commission and a number of other bodies, is a body which from time to time, because of the impact of its decisions generally as opposed to the impact of its decisions in particular cases, does have an impact on general economic trends. As the honourable gentleman himself would argue very robustly- and I agree with him- ultimately it is for the Parliament and governments to be responsible for trends in the economy. 
I am putting to the House very simply that I believe that if a government is concerned about the cumulative economic consequences of decisions made by statutory authorities in good faith and in total integrity it has not only a right but also a duty to give directions to that body and suggest that particular criteria should be taken into account so that if that government wants the trend of those decisions, insofar as their cumulative economic impact is concerned, to be altered it can see that they are altered. That is an entirely different situation from allowing a Minister in effect to second guess the Trade Practices Commission insofar as a particular decision is concerned. I think that, whatever the integrity of the Minister and whatever the party in power, that does involve a situation in which suggestions can inevitably be made that particular companies are being favoured and that directions are being given because particular results are sought. 
What is sought here is not a situation in which a Minister can direct the Commission to find that a particular application or authorisation should be granted but a situation in which a Minister or the Government through the Minister is able to say to the Commission: 'We want you to take these things into account. For example, in the future we want you to take into account the impact of your consideration of authorisation applications on employment, capital investment and a whole range of matters'. It could well be a power that might not be used for many yearsthe type of power that might only be used if a government believed that the cumulative effects of decisions taken by the Commission in this area created an economic trend or an economic situation that that government wished to alter or perhaps even reverse. 
That is the purpose of it. It is distinguishable, and I think quite clearly distinguishable, from a power that gives to the Minister a capacity to overrule the determination of the Commission on the merits of a particular case. In other words, what we are talking about here is the capacity to give guidelines- to use the modern idiom- to the considerations of the Commission and not a situation in which the Minister should have the power to say to the Commission: 'We want you to grant an authorisation in relation to the application of XYZ Pty Ltd'. It is that type of power that I think is objectionable. It is that type of power that we have attacked in the past. I think it is the type of power that the honourable gentleman himself - 
In fairness to the honourable gentleman's colleague in the former Government, what I am talking about is the concept. I think it is unfortunate in relation to legislation like this, having said as one's kicking off point that one is going to let the Commission decide the merits of particular cases, that one should then have a reserve power for the Minister to overturn the decision of the Commission in that case. I think that is the type of power that can bring government into disrepute. If one is going to have that type of power one may well ask: 
Why have a statutory commission in the first place? Why not do it all through a Minister's department? The whole purpose of having a statutory commission is, as far as practicable, to insulate the individual decision-making process in particular cases from the mechanisms of government. I think that is a sound principle. I do not think it is inconsistent with the concept of parliamentary government. Having elected to go that route, I think it is then a nonsense to reserve to the Minister the capacity to overturn individual decisions. But I do distinguish very strongly between a capacity to overturn individual decisions and a capacity to lay down general guidelines within which all decisions in a certain category shall be made. 
I ask for leave to move the insertion of new clauses 22A and 22B. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
8 ) After clause 22, insert the following new clauses: '22A. Section 35 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (2) the word 'Attorney-General ' and substituting the word 'Minister'. '22B. Section 44 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (2) the word 'Attorney-General' and substituting the word 'Minister'.. 
The purpose of these new clauses is simply to allow the reallocation of responsibilities between relevant Ministers who have specific responsibilities under this Act. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  will be aware, there is a division in this Act for which the Minister for Transport has ministerial responsibility. I assure the honourable gentleman that there is nothing snide or underhand in this proposal. I think it is the type of provision which we ought to have in legislation where ministerial responsibility is divided between different Ministers. 
Consistent with the Government's desire to have this Bill passed this evening, we would not wish to place any undue restrictions on the participation of Opposition members in the debate on this clause. My response has to be that, in general terms, the Government will not be placing any undue restriction on the debate. Equally, there has to be mutuality involved. I point out to the honourable gentleman that before the dinner adjournment the Government did not use its numbers to prevent both himself and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  making, first a second second reading speech and, secondly, a first second reading speech on a purely procedural motion. Having been asked to use forbearance, I would ask the Opposition to do likewise. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Could I suggest to the Minister that it might be appropriate for him to move amendments Nos 9 to 22 together as they deal with clause 23. 
-I seek leave of the House to do so. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
After proposed sub-section (3), insert the following sub-section: " '(3a) For the purposes of the application of this section in relation to a particular corporation, a provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding or of a proposed contract, arrangement or understanding shall be deemed to have or to be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition if that provision and any one or more of the following provisions, namely- 
the other provisions of that contract, arrangement or understanding or proposed contract, arrangement or understanding; and 
the provisions of any other contract, arrangement or understanding or proposed contract, arrangement or understanding to which the corporation or a body corporate related to the corporation is or would be a party, together have or are likely to have that effect. ". 
In proposed section 45(5)(b)(i), omit "(7)", substitute"(8)". 
1) In proposed section 45a (2) (a) before "of goods", insert, "or the supply by the parties to the joint venture in proportion to their respective interests in the joint venture, ' '. 
12) In proposed section 45a, after proposed sub-section (7), insert the following sub-section: " '(8) The reference in sub-section ( 1 ) to the supply or acquisition of goods or services by persons in competition with each other includes a reference to the supply or acquisition of goods or services by persons who, but for a provision of any contract, arrangement or understanding or of any proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, would be, or would be likely to be, in competition with each other in relation to the supply or acquisition of the goods or services. ' '. 
In proposed section 45b after proposed sub-section ( 3 ), insert the following sub-section: " '(3a) For the purposes of this section, a covenant or proposed covenant shall be deemed to have, or to be likely to ave, the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market if the covenant or proposed covenant, as the case may be, would have, or be likely to have, that effect when taken together with the effect or likely effect on competition in that market of any other covenant or proposed covenant to the benefit of which- 
a corporation that, or person who, is or would be, or but for sub-section (1) would be, entitled to the benefit of the first-mentioned covenant or proposed covenant; or 
a person associated with the corporation referred to in paragraph (a) or a corporation associated with the person referred to in that paragraph, is or would be, or but for sub-section (1) would be, entitled.". 
14) In proposed section 45B (4) (b) (i), omit "(7)", substitute "(8)". 
15) In proposed section 45b, at the end of proposed subsection (5), add "or other bodies corporate that are related to each other". 
After sub-section (4) of proposed section 45c, insert the following sub-section: " '(5) The reference in sub-section ( 1 ) to the supply or acquisition of goods or services by persons in competition with each other includes a reference to the supply or acquisition of goods or services by persons who, but for a provision of any contract, arrangement or understanding or of any proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, would be, or would be likely to be, in competition with each other in relation to the supply or acquisition of the goods or services. ". 
17) In proposed section 45D, omit proposed sub-section (3), substitute the following sub-section: "(3) A person shall not be taken to contravene, or to be involved in a contravention of, sub-section ( 1 ) by engaging in conduct where- 
the dominant purpose for which the conduct is engaged in is substantially related to- 
the remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions of that person or of another person employed by an employer of that person; or 
an employer of that person having terminated, or taken action to terminate, the employment of that person or of another person employed by that employer; or 
in the case of conduct engaged in by the following persons in concert with each other (and not in concert with any other person), that is to say- 
an organisation or organisations of employees, or an officer or officers of such an organisation, or both such an organisation or organisations and such an officer or officers; and 
ii ) an employee, or two or more employees who are employed by the one employer, the dominent purpose for which the conduct is engaged in is substantially related to- 
the remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions of the employee, or of any of the employees, referred to in sub-paragraph (ii); or 
the employer of the employee, or of the employees, referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) having terminated, or taken action to terminate, the employment of any of his employees. '. 
In proposed section 47 (3) (0 after 'goods. '(first appearing), insert 'has re-supplied, or has not agreed not to resupply, goods, or goods of a particular kind or description, acquired from the corporation to any person, or'. 
In proposed section 47, omit proposed sub-section (10), substitute the following sub-section:- "(10) Sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply to the practice of exclusive dealing constituted by a corporation engaging in conduct of a kind referred to in sub-section (2), (3), (4) or (5) or paragraph ( 8 ) ( a) or ( b ) or ( 9 ) ( a ), ( b ) or ( c ) unless- 
the engaging by the corporation in that conduct has the purpose, or has or is likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition; or 
the engaging by the corporation in that conduct, and the engaging by the corporation, or by a body corporate related to the corporation, in other conduct of the same or a similar kind, together have or are likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition.'. 
In proposed section 47, omit proposed sub-section (13). 
In proposed section 47 (14) (6), 'acquires', insert, ' or is likely to supply or acquire, '. 
In proposed section 47(14)(c), after 'acquires', insert ' , or is likely to supply or acquire, '. 
The Government's amendment No. 9 deals with the question of aggregation. The effect of the amendment is to provide that in determining the effects upon competition of a provision of an agreement for the purposes of the application of section  45  to a particular corporation, regard shall be had to the competitive effects of other provisions to which the corporation or a related body corporate is a party. To use an example which will be well known to Opposition members who are participating in this debate, the effect of this clause will be that in considering, say, the anti-competitive effect of an agreement between oil company A and a petrol re-seller the Commission will be able to pay regard to the effects of other agreements of a like nature between the same oil company and other petrol resellers. 
The view which has been expressed very strongly by quite a cross-section of practitioners in this area is that if we did not have an aggregation clause of this nature it could be virtually impossible in certain circumstances for the Commission to find that a particular agreement had an anti-competitive effect, unless it were possible for the Commission to assess the anticompetitive effect of that agreement against the background of assessing the totality of the anticompetitive effect of similar agreements to which the same company is also a party. It is an addition which in no sense weakens the existing provisions of the legislation. Rather, many would argue very strongly that it is a clause which is necessary to make more certain that the stated purposes of clause  45  do in fact operate. 
I think this is an appropriate time for me to reply to some of the allegations that have been made about the motives of the Government in including in this Bill proposed new section 45D of the Trade Practices Act. I know that no argument that I will be able to adduce in the few moments I intend to take tonight will be sufficient to persuade any member of the Opposition that it is appropriate to include a clause of this nature in a trade practices Bill, or indeed that this provision is other than a deliberate attempt by the Government to discriminate against the trade union movement. But I believe, and I know that the belief is shared in the Government ranks, that this legislation is not designed against the trade union movement. No political party in Australia, be it on our side of politics or on the Australian Labor Party's side, can gain any profit from deliberately confronting any section of the Australian community, be that the trade union movement, the farmers, the industrialists of Australia or whatever the case may be. 
The motives of the Government are to bring into the trade practices legislation the concept that where conduct having certain consequences is engaged in, that conduct should attract the same consequences irrespective of who engages in it. Earlier this evening I explained the reasons why the Government proposes to extend the operation of the Trade Practices Act to its own commercial activities. We shall do that because we believe it to be demonstrably unfair to the private sector of the Australian community to impose the elaborate paraphenalia of the Trade Practices Act upon the private sector but at the same time to say that the Government is a special case. The same concept applies in respect of proposed section 45D. Having read some of the literature that has been produced about this proposed section and having listened to some of the speeches that have been made tonightsome, if I may say so, were more thoughtful than others- one would imagine that what the Government was about through this legislation was to discriminate in favour of all sections of the community against the trade union movement. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  spoke about the potential penalities under the Act. Of course, as the honourable gentleman knows, those penalties apply at the present time in respect of companies. Has the honourable gentleman forgotten that only two or three weeks ago a company in one of the States of Australia was fined because it had misled some people abouts the benefits that might be obtained if people entered into certain contractural arrangements with that company. There was no evidence that people had suffered any damage. There was no evidence that the deception was deliberate. Yet the consequences of the Act applied. I am putting to the Committee the very simple proposition that if it is fair in circumstances such as that that the legislation apply, I think it is fair that the type of provision that is involved in proposed section 45D should also apply- 
Certainly this is the fourth version of proposed section 45D. I make no apologies for that. I do not think that reflects discredit upon the Government. I think it indicates that the Government has been prepared to listen to the propositions that have been put to it. I and people in my Department have spent a considerable amount of time discussing this legislation with representatives of the trade union movement. We have not been able to reach agreement on the fundamental proposition but I have been persuaded by a number of the arguments that have been put to me. The changes that were made several weeks ago when we decided to delete from the legislation penalties against individuals and we decided to restrict the right of civil action against individuals to a very limited number of cases did represent major changes by the Government to the legislation. They were, in the main, as a result of representations that we had received from the trade union movement. 
In terms of one of the amendments which is now before the Committee- amendment No. 17 -we have provided yet another amendment which makes it perfectly clear that if the conduct in question is the type of" conduct excluded by the operation of sub-section (3) of proposed section 45D that exclusion should cover the conduct of a trade union and trade union officials just as it covers the conduct of individual trade unionists. In other words, if one is going to exempt the conduct one ought to exempt whoever engages in the conduct and one ought not to discriminate between those whom one exempts in respect of that conduct. The clause as it now stands more tightly defines the concept of a secondary boycott. It certainly does provide that a union is deemed to be liable for the acts of the members of an organisation unless the union establishes that it has taken all reasonable steps to prevent the boycott. 
The honourable member for Burke asked me in effect to give some idea of what constitutes a reasonable step. I cannot do that. Precisely why expressions such as 'reasonable steps' are inserted in legislation is because that is a matter for the courts to determine, just as it is not possible for me to give an exhaustive definition of what amounts to anti-competitive conduct by companies and what amounts to exclusive dealings by companies. I cannot give any ironclad definition of that. All I can say is that the words carry an ordinary meaning that is understood by all of us and that ultimately it is going to be a matter for the courts to interpret. 
After very considerable thought and consideration by the Government, this clause does represent in the view of the Government an important addition to the trade practices legislation. It is an addition that has been thought about. It is an addition that is not designed to affect the trade union movement. It is not aimed at the trade union movement. The proposition that in some way the total effect of this legislation represents discrimination against the trade union movement to the advantage of private enterprise in Australian society is, in my view, a wholly unfounded proposition. It is a nonsense to suggest, as some members of the Opposition have argued during the course of today's debate, that in some way the Government is now in the process of winding down restrictions that ought to exist on improper commercial conduct and winding them up in respect of trade union conduct. 
Before I conclude my remarks on this proposed section I would like to respond to some remarks made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  They have nothing whatever to do with proposed section 45D, but they have something to do with another part of proposed section 45. The honourable member dealt with the new provision in the Bill which is designed, as he said, to assist small business and which provides for a more liberal treatment of recommended price lists than exists under the present legislation. He made the point that the threshold of 50 members of a trade association might be one that worked to the disadvantage of trade associations in the smaller States. The honourable member made the very valid point that, if the Government wishes to confer an advantage of this nature on small business, then as far as possible that advantage should be equally available throughout Australia and the drawing up of the provision should not be such as to provide for an advantage being more readily available in, say, Sydney than in Perth or Hobart. There are some difficulties, which I have explained to the honourable member, about discriminating as between numbers in the trade associations between the States. But I indicate to the honourable gentleman that I will ask the Commission to monitor the operation of this provision so that after a period- I hope a reasonably short period- one can gain some idea as to whether it has in fact worked or whether the proposed benefits of the provision have not worked to the advantage of small business throughout Australia. 
I should also mention that earlier I moved all of the amendments standing in the Government's name in respect of clause 23 and I did explain the basis of amendment No. 9. I should briefly indicate to the Committee the basis of the other amendments. Amendment No. 10 merely corrects a technical error. The wrong sub-section had been referred to. Amendment No. 11 is an amendment of some significance. It removes a restriction upon joint venturers marketing separately. What the Government has done by this amendment is to create a situation in which the treatment to be afforded to joint venture arrangements operates in respect of the sale of the product of the joint venture when the sale is done separately by the parties to the joint venture. That is not an unusual situation. It is not an amendment that will lead to the type of price fixing arrangements that are prohibited in other sections of the Act. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that if the products of the joint venture are separately sold by the parties to the joint venture the type of treatment that is accorded in other parts of the section to the joint venture also will apply in respect of that conduct. 
Amendment No. 12 makes it clear that proposed section 45A ( 1 ) applies irrespective of any market sharing agreement involving the parties. Amendment No. 13 introduces into this particular section the concept of aggregation which I explained earlier in respect of another section. Amendment No. 14 also corrects a minor error where the wrong sub-section was referred to. Amendment No. 15 prevents proposed section 45B (5) affecting arrangements between related bodies corporate which might be treated as a matter not invoking public law. Amendment No. 16 is to the same effect as that proposed under amending clause 10 which I have mentioned earlier. 
Amendment No. 17 is the amendment to proposed section 45D(3) which I Have explained earlier in these remarks. This amendment extends to organisations of employees the protection afforded to individual employees' under section 45D (3) proposed in the Bill and in the circumstances and upon the basis that I have earlier explained in these remarks. Amendment No. 18 makes proposed section 47(3) a more effective mirror of proposed section 47 (2) thereby avoiding accidental inferences from the omission of these words. Amendment No. 19 deals with the concept of aggregation so far as it relates to exclusive dealings. 
I move amendment No. 23: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause:- "24. Section 49 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in paragraph (b) of sub-section ( 1 ), after the word 'given', the words 'or allowed'; 
by omitting from paragraphs (c) and (d) of subsection (I ) the words 'or facilities'; and 
by inserting before the words 'is likely to have' the words 'has or'. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  has been kind enough to say that this is a minor amendment. It is true, as the honourable member for Grayndler said, that the Government did change its mind about repealing section 49. 1 do not think governments lose credit for occasionally changing their minds. There are difficulties of interpretation with section 49. They will remain. One of the actions the Government will be taking is to look very carefully over the next few months at the operation of section 49 on the basis that, if there is a way in which some of the difficulties of this section can be removed whilst still preserving its benefits, it might be possible to do that at some future stage. I am pleased to remind the honourable member for Grayndler that this Bill contains other sections which this Government has introduced and which provide additional or further benefits to small business. 
Clauses 25 of the Bill deals with mergers and is one of the very important provisions. The effect of the legislation proposed by the Government is that in future the surveillance by the Trade Practices Commission of mergers will exist only in respect of those mergers which involve companies already in a monopoly position or companies which will as a result of the merger be in a monopoly position. I make no secret of the fact that the Government believes that this will substantially reduce the coverage of merger activities in Australia by the Trade Practices Act. This is a quite deliberate move on the part of the Government; there is nothing indirect about it. The Government has formed the very strong view that the appropriate merger provision in the Australian trade practices legislation is a merger provision which looks at the concentration of the industry and at the monopoly situation and not a merger provision which is as all-embracing and has such a widespread effect as the present merger provision. So the effect of the changes will in the view of the Government certainly reduce the degree to which it is necessary at present to seek clearance and authorisation of mergers. Because of the changes made to section 50, the procedure of clearance is being removed from the Act altogether. 
The amendments before the Committee are subsidiary to the main purpose of the changes embodied in this Bill and I shall briefly explain what is involved in the 3 amendments. There is a proviso which makes it very clear that the merger provision does not catch a situation which simply involves a change of ownership due to a reorganisation of a group of related companies. I would have thought that this was an amendment which would commend itself to all honourable members. If such an amendment is not made then a reorganisation involving the creation of a new holding company for a group which already controls or dominates the market would be caught. In substance, in that situation there is no real change of ownership but really a change in identity of the company which may occupy the monopoly position. 
The second change introduces into proposed new section 50 a special definition of 'market' for the purposes only of that section. The amendment says in effect that for the purposes of the merger provision of the Act a market is a substantial market in Australia or in a State of Australia. The purpose of that is to remove as far as it is possible to do so the situation where a merger which in its totality ought not to be caught by the provisions of the legislation may be caught by the provisions of the legislation simply because the target company happens to be in a monopoly position in an extremely small market, a market that cannot be regarded on any reasonable test as a substantial one. The reason we have expressly provided that it must be a substantial market in Australia or in a State of Australia is to pay special regard to the situation of the less populous States. It is true that a market which is not substantial by Australian standards may be substantial in terms of the size of markets in Tasmania, South Australia or other States. 
The third and relatively minor change is consistent with the change that has been made to section 46, the monopoly provision. It makes it clear that a monopoly which is spoken of in proposed new section 50 is a monopoly either as a supplier or as an acquirer. I believe that the right balance has been struck in the merger provision. I say plainly and deliberately that it is the intention of the Government to reduce substantially the degree of merger control. We believe that a market the size of Australia does not warrant the coverage of merger activity which is currently involved under the present Act. However, we believe that some degree of surveillance should be retained to avoid undue concentration of industry and that the balance which is now struck by the proposed new section 50 achieves that objective and gives to the Act a far more realistic and far more suitable merger provision. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles )- Does the Minister seek leave to move the 3 amendments together? 
-I do. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 19 March 1976, Max Richard Laidley Dowling, Norman Roy Course, John Albert Keir, Timothy Richard Wigram Alien, Rupert Webb Burge, John Stewart Corner, William James Wilbraham Edwards, Alexander Bun, Peter Davie, Lionel James Milligan, David Ireson Thorpe, who were partners in the firm known as 'Patrick Partners' each executed a deed of arrangement under Pan X of the Bankruptcy Act. There is no certainty that these persons would have become bankrupt if they had not executed the deeds. On an application to the Federal Court of Bankruptcy by the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited to restrain these persons from executing the deeds  Mr Justice  Riley in his judgment given on 1 April 1976 found that the Bank failed to satisfy the Court that the individual deeds departed from a plan of administration that would be just and equitable and for the advantage of creditors (Re Patrick Partners 10A.L.R.71 at pp. 88 and 89). 
At page 89 in the judgment referred to in the answer to part ( 1 ) of this question  Mr Justice  Riley said that the Bank had not satisfied the Court that 'the amount that could be recovered under the "preference" provisions in bankruptcy if proceedings under those provisions were successful would exceed the amounts contributed under the deed from separate estates'. 
I do not know nor am I in a position to enquire if there have been any acquisitions of property by the partners of Patrick Partners since the execution of the eleven deeds of arrangement on 19 March 1976. 
Under the present law preferences may be recovered under a deed of assignment but not under a deed of arrangement. There is a conflict of judicial opinion as to whether or not property acquired after the execution of a deed of arrangement can be brought into the administration under the deed. Whether to resolve for a deed of assignment or a deed of arrangement and, in the latter case, what are to be the terms of a deed of arrangement are questions that are left to be decided by a majority in number and three-quarters in value of the creditors present and voting at the relevant meeting. 
Under the present law, a partly secured creditor has in relation to the unsecured portion of his debt the same rights as any other unsecured creditor. A fully secured creditor can, at present, exercise all his rights under his security, or alternatively, surrender his security for the benefit of creditors generally and proceed as if he were an unsecured creditor. 
Under the present law, a debtor who is the subject of a deed of arrangement can be examined under section 8 1 of the Bankruptcy Act. Such examinations are always held in public. 
The Government is considering amendments designed to clarify the application of the provisions of Part X to partners who seek to have their partnership affairs administered under Part X. 
To prescribe a form would be contrary to the concept of a deed of arrangement. Under the present law, the terms of a deed of arrangement are matters for the creditors. 
and (10) The Government is considering several amendments to Pan X in the light of experience since the commencement of the Bankruptcy Act and because of decisions, including decisions in the matter of Patrick Partners resulting in judicial interpretation of some of the provisions of the Part. 
Not that lam aware of. 
12) According to the report dated 2 1 December 1976 by  Mr G.  G. Masterman, Q.C., an inspector appointed under the New South Wales Securities Industry Act, on 10 July 197S Pioneer Concrete Services Limited withdrew from Patrick Partners a deposit of $500,000 which it had made at call in June 1971.  Mr Masterman  said in his report that there was a 'significant possibility ' that the amount paid to Pioneer Concrete Services Limited would have been recoverable (by the trustee in a bankruptcy on a petition brought within the six months after 10 July 1975). (See paragraph 908 of his report). 
I am not aware of any list of the companies with which Patrick Partners, either as a partnership or as individuals, were associated. 
M.T.I. Ltd, Central Bill Clearance Ltd, Tashtego Pry Ltd, Morialta Pty Ltd, Patbank Pty Ltd and Sandra Investments Pty Ltd, each of which is believed to be associated with Patrick Partners, are incorporated in the A.C.T. Patcorp Investments Pry Ltd, which is also believed to be associated with Patrick Partners, is registered as a foreign company in the A.C.T. 
b) I am not aware of any company known or believed to be associated with Patrick Partners that is incorporated in the Northern Territory. Patrick Intermarine (Australia) Ltd and Patrick Intermarine Acceptances Ltd, each of which is believed to be associated with Patrick Partners, are registered as foreign companies in the Northern Territory. 
No cause has yet been shown that would warrant detailed investigation under the Companies Ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory of any of the companies referred to in the answer to part (13) of this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I have had detailed discussions with representatives of lessee petrol resellers regarding recommendations of the Royal Commission of particular interest to them. 
Copies of the Royal Commission's 4th Report have been forwarded to State Premiers for comment. Any decision to initiate discussions with the States on particular approaches to industry problems will be taken in the context of the Government's decision regarding the Royal Commission 's recommendations. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Tourist Commission has estimated the increase in the number of tourists/travellers to Australia for 1977 as (a) Europe (excluding Britain )-7,600, (b) Bri-tain-4,000, (c) The United States of America- 1 1,500, (d) Japan-3,500 and (e) New Zealand-8,000. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek the leave of the House to conclude on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  his second reading speech on the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on certain paper and papa board tariff quotas. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Temporary Assistance Authority on valves. 
We find that the clause we are debating at the moment is the exemption clause and not clause 45B proper. But understanding the interests of honourable members in this clause one takes no exception. I shall say 3 things in response to the contribution of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I say to the honourable gentleman that the nexus with the corporations power in section  45D  is the effect upon or the damage done to the corporation. On the advice available to the Government as to the extent of the corporations power, it is in that respect, in the view of the Government, that the clause is a proper exercise of the corporations power. The debate on this clause which occurred last night and during the second reading debate reveals strong differences of opinion. I think honourable members on the Government side have put the Government's view. 
I say to the Committee again that the penalties which are involved under section  45D  are no greater than the penalties which attach to the activities of companies under that section and under other sections of the Act. I point out again to the Committee that there arerino pecuniary penalties on individuals under section  45D.  Only in a limited number of circumstances can civil action be taken against individuals under section  45D.  I again remind the Committee that the Government has made a number of amendments to section  45D  as a result of the representations which it has received. It now believes that this clause is balanced. It does not believe, if we are dealing with competition legislation, that any section of the community whose actions have the purpose of substantially affecting competition should be immune from the implications of that action. It is for that reason that the Government has extended the scope of the Act to the commercial operations of the Crown. It is for that reason that it believes that section  45D  is appropriate. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 27 to 48- by leave- taken together. 
I seek leave to have clause 25 of the Bill as amended reconsidered forthwith. 
-I am aware that, unfortunately, M. B. John Ltd, which is a major employer in the city of Ballarat, this week retrenched seventeen of its employees. There is no doubt that this was due in part to the erosion of the company's competitive position insofar as imports are concerned. Once again we have a demonstration of what happens to Australian industry and the employees of Australian industry when the bloated cost structure of this country, particularly in the wages area, causes its valuable customers to import. 
It is a fact that the company applied last year to the Temporary Assistance Authority for temporary protection. The Authority has reported and the Government has considered the Authority's report, which will be released today or tomorrow- as soon as practical arrangements can be made to table it. The Authority, having heard the company's application, recommended against the granting of any temporary protection to the company. As the honourable gentleman will be aware, in those circumstances the Government has no capacity under the existing provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act to afford any form of temporary protection, be it in the way of quotas, subsidies, bounties or otherwise. In those circumstances any suggestion that may be made in Ballarat or by the company to the effect that the Government has been inactive in the matter is quite wrong. The Government commissioned a Temporary Assistance Authority inquiry. The Authority did not recommend temporary protection and as ought to be plain to honourable gentlemen that means that the Government's hands are tied in terms of assistance so far as the existing provisions of the Act are concerned. 
I should mention to the honourable gentleman that, concerned as the Government is regarding the employment situation, in the past week there has been contact between the company and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. This has led to the acceptance I think of some 30 persons for retraining under the National Employment and Training scheme. That contact will continue and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations will be anxious to assist further where possible in respect of the provision of NEAT facilities. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1977 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Bill, which contains 14 schedules, brings before honourable members for their consideration tariff changes made since the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 was debated and passed by this House in December last year. All the changes were incorporated in Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 23 to 26 1976 and Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to 10 1977 which I have introduced into the Parliament at different times since then. In the main, the amendments give effect to decisions by the Government in respect of the following reports of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority: 
ADP Equipment and Parts; Agricultural Tractors; Animal Foods, etc.; Brassieres; Calcium Carbide; Certain Man-Made Fibres, Yarns and Fabrics- Interim Report; Copper Foil and Primary Shapes Produced by Rolling, etc.; Cosmetics and Toilet Preparations; Electric Motors, etc.; High Alloy Steels- Interim Report; Leather and Leather Substitute Products; Multilateral Trade Negotiations- General Rates of Duty- First Report; Review Inquiry No. 12- Clothing- Interim Report; Sheets and Plates of Iron or Steel- Import Restrictions; Sheets, Curtains, etc.- Textiles Authority Report; Soaps and Detergents, etc.; Bench or Pedestal Drilling Machines, Not Power Fed. 
Honourable members will recall that when the Tariff Proposals were introduced into the House I circulated a comprehensive summary in respect of each of the proposals which set out the nature of the change in duty rates and the origin of each change. I have had prepared a consolidation of those summaries and copies may be obtained from the Bills and Papers Office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 3 1 December 1977 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 11 to 14 introduced into the Parliament during the current sitting and not covered by Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1977. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collection of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals is protected against legal challenge for six months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever first occurs. 
The introduction and passage of this Validation Bill is a necessary machinery measure to take over from section 226 pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill in the Budget sitting which will formally enact the tariff changes contained in the proposals. 
The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: Tyres; olive industry; and monochrome television receivers and certain electronic components. Full details of the changes were supplied to honourable members at the time the relevant Tariff Proposals were introduced. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose, of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision, made on the basis of the Industries Assistance Commission 's report of 30 October 1 976, to continue for a further 5 years from 1 July 1977 the payment of bounty on the production of phosphate fertilisers for use in Australia. In accordance with recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission, the bounty scheme is being extended to apply to production of crushed or calcined phosphate rock and phosphatic substances for use as supplements to stock foods. 
The rate of bounty payable at present is: On single superphosphate, that is, superphosphate having a phosphorous pentoxide content of 20 per cent plus or minus one-half per cent, $1 1.8 1 per tonne; and on other superphosphate and ammonium phosphate, $59.05 per tonne of phosphorous pentoxide content. In the Bill that I have just introduced the rate of bounty is, in accordance with present trade usage, expressed by reference to available phosphorous content rather than by reference to phosphorous pentoxide content as in the present Act. 
In accordance with the Industries Assistance Commission's report, and for reasons of administrative convenience, the Bill proposes that bounty on the production of single superphosphate be paid at the rate of $12 per tonne and that, on the production of phosphatic substances having a phosphorus content either greater, or less than, the phosphorus content of single superphosphate, bounty be at the rate of $138 per tonne of available phosphorus content. The prescribing of the latter rate will result in bounty in every case, and irrespective of the phosphorus content of the product concerned, being in strict relativity to the bounty on single superphosphate. Although the Bill proposes a significant change in the manner of calculating bounty, I would like to make it clear that, except for minor and sensible rounding off, the change does not represent any variation from the rates of bounty payable under the present Act. 
In connection with the definition of 'available phosphorus content' in paragraph (a) of Clause 3 of the Bill, provision is made for the prescribing by regulation of the method of determining such content. It is proposed that the method to be prescribed will be that of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists for available phosphorus which is an internationally accepted method. The effect of clauses 8, 9 and 10 of the Bill is to continue the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect a person's rights or entitlements under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I wish to respond to a number of contributions relating to these clauses. I welcome the support which the Opposition has given to the Government amendments that are under consideration at present. In respect of the merger issue raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  it is true, as he says, that the Government has made a decision to limit the power to apply for an injunction to restrain a merger to the Minister or the Trade Practices Commission. It is a proposition which can be criticised, but it is one of those 'on balance' decisions which from time to time have to be made in regard to legislation such as this. The Government has taken the view, on evidence available to it, that the availability of the injunction proceedings has been abused in a number of cases by companies which are rival bidders and are interested merely in frustrating the proposed merger in order that the company may stand in the place of the acquirer whose attempts to take over the target company are being frustrated by the injunction proceedings. Essentially for that reason the Government has decided to confine the power to apply for an injunction to the Minister and the Trade Practices Commission. 
The Government was not surprised at the recommendations of the Swanson Committee on consumer protection. I believe that the existence of strong and effective consumer protection legislation at both State and Federal level is now something which is supported on both sides of politics and acknowledged by business. One of the very significant findings of the Swanson Committee was that almost universally the Australian business community accepts the need for effective consumer protection legislation. No serious argument was advanced to the Committee that there should be a repeal or substantial weakening of the consumer protection provisions. The Government's amendments to the consumer protection provisions have, in the main, struck a balance between perhaps relaxing some of the areas where too much strictness existed and making much needed extensions to the operation of the legislation, particularly in respect of land transactions. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who demonstrates- I say this sincerelya real interest in the operation of consumer protection legislation both in his own State and throughout the Commonwealth, particularly so far as it relates to hire purchase and insurance legislation, has questioned me again in relation to this aspect. The direct and precise answer to his query about whether we have adopted the recommendations of the Swanson Committee in regard to clause 73 is no, we have not. As I said in my speech in December, that matter is still under consideration by the Government. The reason why it is still under consideration is that the Government is very hopeful that the uniform consumer credit legislation to which the Government, as well as, hopefully, all other governments throughout Australia and the finance industry, are committed, will become a reality in the not too distant future. My colleague the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  and I are both very interested in the speediest possible resolution of the outstanding differences and believe that this type of provision more properly belongs to that type of legislative framework. As the honourable gentlemen will know, finance companies will bear a number of the responsibilities of which he spoke under the proposals in the uniform hire purchases Act. So, there is movement in that area, although the answer to his question is no, it has not been picked up in his Bill. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  correctly said that the market test now applies in respect of the competition test and the Act by and large does have the uniform test of a substantial adverse effect on competition, which the Government believes is a more desirable test than that which exists under the present Act. I point out to the honourable gentlemen that the market test replaces not the competition test but rather the parties test which exists under the present legislation. Under the present legislation the effect on competition, in the main, is measured in terms of its impact on the parties, whereas when this Bill becomes law it will be measured by its impact on the market. The Government believes that this will achieve a situation where substance rather than form is more directly addressed. If we are talking about competition we ought to be talking about the effect of behaviour in a market place, because it is only in a market place that we can have competition. To measure competitive effect as between parties and not in a market can lead, the Government believes, to some unreal results because what may on the surface appear to be uncompetitive between parties may in reality in a market be not uncompetitive. That is one of the reasons why the Government has inserted the aggregation provisions in the legislation. 
As the honourable gentlemen will know, something which may or may not be anticompetitive as between 2 parties may, when looked at in relation to agreements and arrangements that one of those 2 parties has with other persons in the same market, create an anticompetitive position and a different result may ensue. Although it obviously must remain a matter of argument and debate- I note that the honourable gentleman thinks that the Swanson recommendation is wrong; naturally he is entitled to his view- the Government believes fairly strongly that a market test measuring conduct in terms of whether it has a substantial adverse effect on competition in a market is a more effective and more realistic method of measuring anti-competitive effects and one which addresses itself more directly to substance than to form. If we are concerned about the impact of conduct, a situation which addresses itself more directly to substance than to form is a more appropriate one. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 49 (Defences). 
I agree with part of the analysis of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  in regard to this change. There is no doubt that the defence now to be provided will be a more liberal defence. I do not accept and nor does the Government accept that the defence has been made unreasonably liberal. I believe that in some circumstances the present defence under the Act can cast an unfair burden on people who are the subject of prosecutions. Let it not be forgotten, as has been said in another context, that the penalties under this Act are substantial. Let it not be forgotten that particularly when it comes to areas such as misleading advertising, questions of due diligence and reliance on information provided by other persons are very relevant considerations. If indeed companies are to be exposed to the quite substantial penalties of this Act, the basis of any defence to actions against companies should be quite explicit. 
The honourable member for Grayndler, in criticising this amendment, said that we should not have a situation where companies which had been negligent should be able to escape liability. I put it to him that what we are talking about here is liability for criminal prosecution. I think he would accept that as a fairly elementary proposition of law, a test of whether negligent conduct should attract criminal liability and criminal proceedings is a fairly difficult proposition to sustain. It is true that the clause has been restructured. It is a more liberal defence, but the Government believes it has been done in a very well balanced sense. I put it to the Committee and particularly to the honourable member for Grayndler in response to his criticism, that if it is reasonable to rely on the information of another person, with which existing paragraph (b) deals, why should companies have to take further actions of precautions, etc., upon pain of possibly losing that defence? What I am putting to the Committee is that it is reasonable. I say again that this is particularly relevant when we are talking about misleading advertising, where everybody knows that the sequence of events is that the client gives instructions to the agency and certain material is prepared on that basis. The agency then gives certain instructions to the media. So there are really 3 stages in the sequence. Of course it is that period when the factual information is translated into the creative work. It is one of those fields where if we erect or allow to exist too many Damocles' swords, a lot of the creativity involved in this area can be eliminated. 
I believe that the area of misleading advertising should be covered, and covered effectively, by this legislation. I believe that the existence of this legislation has had an impact on the advertising industry. I believe that it has had an impact on standards of advertising. I should say that I believe that generally speaking, advertising standards in Australia are extremely high. But I think that the present provision of the Bill that places the double burden so far as dependants are concerned is a little too onerous and that the new structure, contrary to what the honourable member for Grayndler feels, will not make it impossible or indeed substantially more difficult to successfully bring consumer protection prosecutions. 
I have to emphasise again that we are dealing with criminal prosecution. We are dealing with potentially very heavy penalties. We are dealing with circumstances where inevitably the activities of those who are the subject of prosecution will receive publicity in the courts because there is a great interest so far as the media in this country is concerned in the spectacle of companies receiving large fines for misleading advertisements, even in circumstances where those misleading advertisements have not caused any apparent damage to any consumer. So we are not dealing with light penalties or light matters. I think that the restructured defence creates a fair balance. The Government has considered this matter very carefully and it rejects the criticism of the Opposition. 
Question put- 
That the clause be agreed to. 
I seek leave to move on behalf of the Government 9 amendments. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The amendments relate to clauses 52, 58, 61, 67, and 69, which read in part: 
Clause 52. 
1 ) Section 88 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted:- 
"88. (1) 
"(4) Sub-section (2) does not prevent the granting of an authorization under sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to a provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding, or of a proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, being a provision- 
in relation to the price for goods or services to be collectively acquired, whether directly or indirectly, by the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding, or by the proposed parties to the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, from- 
a person who is not, or persons none of whom is, such a party or a body corporate related to such a party; or 
a person who would not be, or persons none of whom would be, such a proposed party or a body corporate related to such a proposed party; or 
Where, before the date of commencement of this section, a corporation made a contract to which sub-section 88 ( 1 ) of the Principal Act applied (not being a contract to which that sub-section applied by reason only that the contract contained a covenant) and the contract was subject to a condition that the contract would not come into force unless and until a notice was given to the corporation under subsection 92(2) of the Principal Act in relation to the contract- 
the contract shall be deemed to be subject to the condition referred to in paragraph 45 (8) (a) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act; and 
if, before the date of commencement of this section, the corporation gave, as mentioned in paragraph 45 ( 8 ) ( b ) of the Principal Act, a notice, in relation to the contract, to the Trade Practices Commission established under the Principal Act, the giving of the notice shall be deemed to have been an application by the corporation for the grant of an authorization to give effect to any provisions of the contract to or in relation to which sub-section 88 ( 1 ) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act applies. 
Where, before the date of commencement of this section, a corporation made a contract that contained a covenant and the contract was subject to a condition that the contract would not come into force unless and until a notice was given to the corporation under sub-section 92 (2) of the Principal Act in relation to the contract- 
the covenant shall be deemed to be subject to the condition referred to in paragraph 45 B (7) (a) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act; and 
if, before the date of commencement of this section, the corporation gave, as mentioned in paragraph 45 ( 8)  (b)  of the Principal Act, a notice, in relation to the contract, to the Trade Practices Commission established under the Principal Act, the giving of the notice shall be deemed to have been an application by the corporation for a grant of an authorization to enforce the terms of the covenant. 
Where, before the date of commencement of this section, a corporation entered into a contract to acquire shares in the capital, or assets, of a body corporate and the contract was subject to a condition that the contract would not come into force unless and until sub-section 94 (3) of the Principal Act applied in relation to the acquisition- 
a ) the contract shall be deemed to be subject to the condition referred to in paragraph 50 (4) (b) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act; and 
if, before the date of commencement of this section, the corporation gave, as mentioned in paragraph 50 (3) (c) of the Principal Act, a notice of the proposed acquisition to the Trade Practices Commission established under the Principal Act, the giving of the notice shall be deemed to have been an application by the corporation for the grant of an authorization to acquire the shares or assets. 
Clause 58. 
Sections 92 and 93 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following section is substituted: - "93. (1) Subject to sub-section (2), a corporation that engages, or proposes to engage, in conduct of a kind referred to in sub-section 47(2), (3), (4) or (5) or paragraph 47 (8) (a) or (b) or (9) (a), (b) or (c) (other than conduct referred to in sub-section 47(13) ) may give to the Commission notice, as prescribed, setting our particulars of the conduct or proposed conduct. "(2) A corporation is not entitled to give a notice under sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to conduct or proposed conduct if- 
the corporation has made an application for an authorization to engage in that conduct, being an application in respect of which the Commission, or the Trade Practices Commission established under the  Trade Practices Act  1974 as in force immediately before the commencement of the  Trade Practices Amendment Act  1977, has- 
made a determination dismissing the application (not being a determination made in circumstances where the corporation gave a notice in relation to that conduct under sub-section 93 ( 1 ) of the  Trade Practices Act  1974 as in force immediately before the commencement of the  Trade Practices Amendment Act  1977, and no notice was given to the corporation under subsection 93 (2) of the  Trade Practices Act  1974 as so in force); or 
made a determination granting an authorization (whether or not the authorization is still in force); and 
Clause 61. 
I ) Section 95 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: '95. ( 1 ) The Commission shall keep a register containing- '(4) If the Commission refuses a request to exclude a document or a part of a document from the register kept under sub-section ( 1 ), the Commission shall, if the person who furnished the document to the Commission so requires, return the document or part of the document to him and, in that case, paragraph (l)(d) does not apply in relation to the document or pan of the document. 
Clause 67. 
Section 157 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections ( 1 ) and (2) and substituting the following subsections: '(1) Where- 
a corporation makes an application to the Commission for an authorization; 
the Commission gives a notice under sub-section 91 (4) to a corporation to which an authorization has been given; 
a proceeding is instituted against a corporation or other person under section 77, 80 or 8 1 ; or 
an application is made under section 80a or subsection 87 ( 1a) for an order against a corporation or other person, the Commission shall, at the request of the corporation or other person, furnish to the corporation or other person- 
a copy of every document that has been furnished to, or obtained by, the Commission in connexion with the matter to which the application, notice of proceeding relates and tends to establish the case of the corporation or other person; and 
Clause 69. 
Section 159 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) the words '(including a person appearing before the Commission under section 155)'. 
I move: 
In proposed section 88 (4) (a), omit 'or services'. 
In sub-clause (5) (b), omit', the giving of the notice', substitute 'and that Commission did not, before that date, give notice in writing to the corporation stating whether or not that Commission considered that any restraint of trade or commerce resulting from the contract had, or was likely to have, a significant effect upon competition, the giving of the notice by the corporation '. 
In sub-clause (6) (b), omit', the giving of the notice', substitute 'and that Commission did not, before that date, give notice in writing to the corporation stating whether or not that Commission considered that any restraint of trade or commerce resulting from the contract had, or was likely to have, a significant effect upon competition, the giving of the notice by the corporation'. 
In sub-clause (7) (b), omit, "the giving of the notice," substitute "and that Commission did not, before that date, give notice in writing to the corporation stating whether or not that Commission considered that the proposed acquisition would be likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods or services, the giving of the notice by the corporation ". 
In clause 58, in proposed section 93 ( 1 ), omit "(other than conduct referred to in sub-section 47 ( 13))". 
In proposed section 93 (2) (a), omit proposed subparagraph (i), substitute the following sub-paragraph: '(i) made a determination dismissing the application, not being a determination made in circumstances where the corporation gave a notice in relation to that conduct under sub-section 92 ( 1 ) or 93 ( 1 ) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 as in force immediately before the commencement of the Trade Practices Amendment Act 1977 and- 
in the case of a notice given under sub-section 92 ( 1 ) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 as so in forcea notice was given to the corporation under sub-section 92 (2 ) of that Act; or 
b) in the case of a notice given under sub-section 93 ( 1 ) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 as so in forceno notice was given to the corporation under sub-section 93 (2 ) of that Act; or'. 
In clause 61, after proposed sub-section (4), insert the following sub-section: "(4A) Sub-section (4) does not apply in relation to a document that was produced to the Commission in pursuance of a notice under section 155." 
In clause 67, in proposed section 157(1), after "person" (third occuring), insert "and upon payment of the prescribed fee (if any)". ( 36 ) Omit clause 69, substitute the following clause: "69. Section 159 of the Principal Act is amended- 
a ) by omitting the words 'the Tribunal or ' ( wherever occurring); and 
by omitting from sub-section ( 1 ) the words '(including a person appearing before the Commission under section 155)'. '. 
I shall deal with the amendments successively. In the main they make technical and consequential changes, in particular consequential changes, which relate to the transition provisions of the legislation. Amendment No. 28 corrects a technical error in that it omits a reference to services which clearly, within the context of clause 52, which it amends, ought not to have been included in the first place. It was irrelevant to the context of that clause. Amendment No. 29 is designed to prevent the transitional provisions of the legislation-as honourable members will understand, transitional provisions are necessary in legislation of this nature- reviving matters which have already been disposed of by the Trade Practices Commission. Amendment No. 30 is a transitional provision relating to additional covenants and has the same effect as amendment No. 25, which the House will recall was a technical amendment to ensure consistency of treatment in terms of provisions rather than contracts throughout the legislation. 
Amendment No. 31 is to the same effect as amendment No. 25 and amendment No. 26. Amendment No. 32 is consequential upon the deletion of section 47 sub-section (13) which was achieved previously by amendment No. 17. Amendment No. 33, which deals with clause 58 of the Bill, is designed to allow persons who in the past have received a clearance in relation to conduct now prohibited by section 47 to seek the benefit of notification. Honourable gentlemen will understand that such a provision is necessary, having regard to the removal of the clearance procedures. 
Amendment No. 34 prevents persons who have been compelled to produce documents under section 155 from claiming confidentiality under that section and thereby negating the purpose of section 155. I think honourable gentlemen opposite will realise that section 155 is an important method by which the Commission gathers information, particularly in relation to consumer protection matters, and it would be unfortunate if any claim of confidentiality could be made and so frustrate the operation of that provision. Amendment No. 35 will allow a fee to be charged for the preparation of documents furnished to applicants or other persons by the Commission. Honourable gentlemen opposite ought not to assume that any fees are going to be charged. Naturally the Government's position is reserved on that, but the passage of this amendment will give the necessary authority. Amendment No. 36 removes an inconsistency between section 1 59 and proposed section 161. 
Those constitute the remainder of the specific provisions standing in the name of the Government. I have moved them collectively. These provisions deal in part with the new authorisation procedures of the Act. The changes to the authorisation procedures of the Act are, of course, very important changes. They do bring into the legislation a more appropriate balance between the public benefit and the anticompetitive effect. I think they remove the unfair burdens that exist under the present legislation insofar as onus is concerned, and I think that they more accurately reflect the type of balance that ought to exist between the public benefit and the consequences of anti-competitive conduct. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on umbrellas. 
-I am aware that Ampol Petroleum has approached the Prices Justification Tribunal. I do not think I am in a position to offer a comment on the merit of that company's application for a price increase. There may be matters relating to it to which the honourable gentleman has not referred and which therefore might cast a different light on it from that implied by him. But I can inform the honourable member that the general problem to which he referred in his question has been under very close consideration by the Government in recent times as a result of a submission I put to the Government. I expect that it will be possible for some indication to be given of the Government's attitude very shortly. 
-I can confirm for the benefit of the honourable member and a number of other honourable members who are most interested in this very important reference that the Industries Assistance Commission has been asked to report on wheat stabilisation. A reference was sent to the Commission by me on 14 February 1977. The IAC is required to report by 14 May 1978. As yet, a division of the Commission has not been appointed but, as the honourable gentleman will be aware, that is a matter for the Commission itself to determine. However, the  Chairman  of the Commission has indicated a schedule of hearings in a circular which was sent out on 27 May. Hearings will commence in Melbourne on 1 August and conclude in Bribane on 25 August and will be held also in Adelaide, Perth and Sydney. Any witnesses and other interested persons who have not already done so should notify the Commission immediately of their interest in order that they will receive copies of circulars, etc. 
I should also point out that, due to the great importance of this inquiry by the IAC, the Commission has decided to issue a discussion paper early next month- I expect within a few dayswhich will greatly assist witnesses in preparing their submissions to the inquiry. I can only add that this is an extremely important inquiry so far as the rural area of Australia is concerned and urge all honourable senators who have a particular interest in it to encourage organisations and other interested parties to participate fully. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on high voltage switchgear from India (antidumping). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Statistics on drug seizures, arrests and the detail of the disposition of offences are published annually in the following documents: 
Drug Treaties Operation (Australia's report to the United Nations). 
Drug Abuse in Australia (a statistical survey published by the Commonwealth Police). 
I have arranged for copies of these reports for 1 973, 1974 and 1975 to be forwarded to the honourable member. The reports for 1976 are currently being collated and as soon as they are available they will also be provided. 
To provide statistics in more precise detail than contained in these reports would involve officers of my department in a very considerable workload. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
to (5) See reply to question 158  (Hansard,  3 May 1977, page 1500). 
Income Tax: Interest on Housing Loans (Question No. 640) 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on Certain Sheets and Plates of Iron or SteelTariff Quotas. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on orange juice. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1977 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
In effect, the honourable gentleman asked me to give a precise yes or no answer to whether the facts of a particular situation are fitted by the legislation in question. I cannot do that for reasons which the honourable gentleman will understand. I am precluded, for very good reasons, from expressing a legal opinion on the operation of the legislation. I can inform the honourable gentleman that in general terms the provisions in question in the Trade Practices Amendment Bill are designed to cover secondary boycott conduct which has a damaging effect on the activities of corporations. I think it is relevant that the honourable gentleman drew attention to the fact that the consequences as he sees them of this particular secondary boycott are to put at risk the jobs of 300 people in the constituency which he represents. That is one example, amongst a number, which the introduction of these provisions has brought to light. It is quite significant that since the provisions were inserted in the legislation, and this particular clause has become a matter of public debate, the instances of secondary boycotts which have been brought to the attention of myself and other honourable members has been quite significant. It does underlie the basic need and the reason why the provision was inserted in the legislation. 
in reply- Compared with similar debates on like measures earlier in this session of Parliament, there has been nothing completely new advanced in this debate. I would like to thank those who have contributed in their normal robust manner to this debate. Inevitably the general range of tariff assistance to manufacturing industry was canvassed. I wish to say specifically in reply to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that, if ever there was a glorious example of an Opposition running away from enunciating a policy on manufacturing industry, we had it today. The Opposition put up one  speaker  who said that the problem was terribly difficult and was almost insoluble but that he did not purpose to offer any solutions to it because it w;i  . not  his job. That was a measure of the interest of the Opposition in the problems of Australian manufacturing industry. It is a measure of the depth of thought which it gives to problems of tariff assistance. It is a measure of the bankruptcy of the alternative Labor government. 
Most of the contributions to this debate came from the Government side. But I would be less than frank if I did not say that there were some shades of difference in the opinions expressed on this side of the House in the debate. I thought that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was less than charitable about the Government's White Paper on Manufacturing Industry. I know he holds his views very sincerely and articulates them extremely well, but his criticism of the White Paper on Manufacturing 
Industry, like some of the criticism that has come from people outside this place with which the honourable member for Wakefield would not normally find himself identified in a philosophical sense on this issue, has been less than reasonable. Nobody denies that no matter what sort of White Paper was produced by the Government on manufacturing industry it would draw criticisms from some quarters because the truth is that it is impossible to prepare such a comprehensive document on such a problem laden sector of Australian industry without pleasing some sections of the community and displeasing others. The present great dilemma for the Government- and it is a dilemma that was evidenced in the White Paper and would be a dilemma for any government composed of any group of people- is that there are short term and long term problems in manufacturing industry. 
-I do not know what the Opposition's point of view is because at no stage since I have had ministerial responsibility in this place for manufacturing and industry assistance matters have I heard any attempt at an articulate statement from the Opposition or where it stands. The Opposition has been given opportunity after opportunity and we simply get a litany of individual complaints from honourable members opposite such as the honourable member for Corio who said that one of the companies in his electorate has been treated differently by the administration. However, there has been no articulate policy. 
The White Paper on Manufacturing Industry is the first attempt for decades to lay down a comprehensive approach by the Government to the problems or manufacturing industry. The White Paper acknowledges that there are short term and long term problems for manufacturing industry. Inevitably during a debate such as this a difference of opinion emerges regarding the reconciliation of the points of view. I find myself in agreement with many of the things that the honourable member for Wakefield said. Of course, as the White Paper indicates, in the long term there must be greater emphasis on those industries which can operate effectively with lower levels of protection, those industries which by reason of the natural protection that they enjoy can operate and compete effectively. That is a proposition that is acknowledged in the White Paper. I acknowledge it. I think it is not seriously contested. But I think the differences in points of view arise regarding the question of change and the rate of change. Nobody denies that manufacturing industry is going through a period of structural change. Nobody ought to deny that the structural change into which manufacturing industry entered in the early 1970s coincided with a catastrophic increase in the domestic cost structure of manufacturing industry and also unhappily coincided with a riproaring careless approach to tariff adjustment that was adopted at various stages by the previous Government. 
I suppose the real question on which there are differences of opinion on this issue in this place is to what extent the problems of manufacturing industry in recent years can be attributed to the general economic problems of Australia and to what extent they can be attributed to the inevitability of change that we all accept throughout the community. I put it strongly that the real problems of manufacturing industry in Australia arise from the fact that the domestic cost structure of this country has become so much of a burden for Australian industry that it has made an enormous contribution to its uncompetitiveness. My difference of opinion with those who might criticise the White Paper is simply that I do not believe it is realistic to ignore the fact that, notwithstanding the inevitability of change, there are short term problems for Australian manufacturing industry that must be catered for in a sensitive manner. 
We must take account of the fact that there are employment consequences of tariff decisions. There was a lot of talk during this debate as to whether by adjusting a tariff we can create jobs. I have always believed- I state it again- that we cannot ignore the employment consequences of individual tariff decisions. It is an undeniable fact that certain tariff decisions have resulted in reductions of employment in certain industries and that the people who have lost their jobs in those industries have not found alternative employment in other industries. 
The can of worms theorem depends for its efficient operation on the worms being constantly and efficiently lubricated. Unfortunately the worms have not been well lubricated in recent years in Australia because of our depressed economic conditions. It is cold comfort to people whose jobs are threatened by disruptive tariff changes, violent changes, for somebody to suggest that in a more perfect economy it would be possible for them to transfer from one area of employment to another. Nobody can deny that the tariff changes that were introduced in 1 973 had a very disruptive effect on labour intensive industries in Australia. I do not think one could find any honourable member on either side of this House who lives in a constituency in which a large number of the voters are employed in labour intensive industries who would seriously deny that proposition. There is absolutely no doubt that the employment consequences in terms of the immediate threat to job security in so many of our labour intensive industries is dependent upon the manner in which the change is managed, the rate of change and on there being a more predictable approach to the question of tariff protection. 
I think it is fair to say to the House that the system of allocation of quotas which was referred to in this debate is not without a great deal of complexity. I should inform the House that the Government has had under consideration for some months the question of the administrative operation of the quota system. It will be of interest to the honourable member for Wakefield to know that the Government has been looking at the administrative side of the operation of the quota system and that I hope to have available to me in the near future the results of that examination. It is an important and difficult subject and it is of relevance to this debate. I conclude by thanking those honourable members who have contributed to the debate, particularly the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this matter. Before the debate is resumed on this Order of the Day, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this motion and Orders of the Day Nos. 4 and 5, Government Business, as they are associated with the same subject. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matters of the 3 Orders of the Day to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. 
In my statement of 31 May 1977, I announced the Government's policy on the major recommendations of the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
The Australian Statistician has advised it is not possible to provide information on the number of radio transceivers imported into Australia. Not all kinds of radio transceivers are recorded separately in Australian import statistics, and for those kinds of transceivers that are recorded separately, details of number imported are not recorded. The values of imports of these kinds of equipment during the latest available 12 months were- 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Prime Minister has already indicated that this matter has been under consideration by the Government in recent days. The honourable gentleman imputes to the legislation of the former Government effects which it may not necessarily have had. The question of effective travel agent legislation is under consideration by  Senator Cotton  at the present time. 
-If the honourable gentleman will allow me to finish the answer I shall do so. The Prime Minister has already indicated that this matter is under consideration by the Government. As the honourable gentleman will know, the company in question was and remains registered under the laws of Victoria. This is therefore not a matter which is totally within the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. As a result, any response at government level must of necessity involve activity by both the Commonwealth and Victorian governments. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Attorney-General has advised me that this question was prepared by an officer of his Department. In these circumstances I do not propose to answer it. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Travel organisations represented on the recent Australian travel trade mission to North America were: 
Ansett Airlines of Australia 
Ansett-Pioneer 
Australian Adventure Tours Group 
Canberra Cruises &amp; Tours Pty Ltd 
Captain Cook Cruises 
Carah Coaches Pty Ltd 
John Daley &amp; Associates Pty Ltd 
House of David- Australian Adventure Campers 
Koala Park Towers 
Menzies Hotel 
MFA-Homestead 
Northern Territory Government Tourist Bureau 
Hotel Parmelia 
Queensland Government Tourist Bureau 
Sebel Town House Ltd 
South Australian Government Tourist Bureau 
Department of Tourism- Tasmania 
Tasmania Mobile Motels Pty Ltd 
The Tour Company Pty Ltd 
Tour Contractors Pacific Pty Ltd 
Tourmakers of the South Pacific 
Trans-Australia Airlines 
Travelodge Australia Limited 
United Touring Australia Pty Ltd 
World Travel Headquarters Pty Ltd 
In addition the following international airlines had booth representation at the workshops: 
Qantas Airways Ltd 
Pan American World Airways 
CP Air 
UTA French Airlines 
Air New Zealand 
The mission was regarded as a success by the Australian Tourist Commission and unanimously by the Australian participants. Although business was written at each of the seven workshops, experience has shown that a period of 18 months will need to elapse before an accurate quantifiable judgment can be made on the value of the travel the mission will have created. However, the Australian Tourist Commission has forecast it will be in excess of the $5m of identifiable new business created by the 1975 Task Force to North America. 
) Further travel trade missions are being planned. These include a small promotional and investigatory mission to South-East Asia, a full Task Force to U.K./Europe and a joint promotional mission with New Zealand to Japan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth Government is continuing its discussions with the States on the proposed co-operative Commonwealth/State scheme for legislation and administration in the fields of company law and the regulation of the securities industry. It would be inappropriate to disclose particulars of those discussions at this stage. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The Commonwealth Government is continuing its discussions with the States on the proposed co-operative Commonwealth/State scheme for legislation and administration in the fields of company law and the regulation of the securities industry. It would be inappropriate to disclose particulars of those discussions at this stage. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: . 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1003. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff (Question No. 1012) 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) In relation to matters falling within the responsibility of the Department of Industry and Commerce, the inclusion of a comodity in Schedule A of NAFTA is considered initially by the Department, after consultation with the relevant industry, prior to reference to the Department of Overseas Trade. 
Within this context it is standard practice for the industry to be contacted by the Department of Industry and Commerce and the opinions of industry are taken fully into consideration. 
Fresh mushrooms do not fall within the responsibilities of the Depanment of Industry and Commerce. Iam advised however that following strong objections from local industry to fresh mushrooms being included in Schedule A the Minister for Overseas Trade has deemed that the question warrants reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
-On behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  I present a report entitled 'Packing and Labelling Laws in Australia' prepared by the Trade Practices Commission. The report is currently being studied by the Government and will make a considerable contribution to the formulation of policy in this area. 
This matter of public importance raised by the Opposition arises from the decision taken in the most recent national wage case by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to grant what amounted to the equivalent of 80 per cent of the cost of full indexation in respect of the June quarter increase in the consumer price index. This decision will add some $800m to the annual national wages bill in this country. At the time the Government expressed its disappointment with the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In responding to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  I echo the disappointment expressed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on that occasion. 
The Commonwealth stands by the submission that was put on its behalf to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I remind the House and, in particular, the honourable member for Gellibrand that economic spokesmen on this side of the House were not the first as members of a government to identify the direct link between wage increases and unemployment. In what has now become a famous phrase the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who I notice is to follow the honourable member for Gellibrand for the Opposition in this debate, drew the attention of the country in the last few days in which he was Treasurer of the Commonwealth to the link between wage increases and unemployment. The former Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  when addressing a conference of Young Labor in 1 975, said: 
Inflation today is undoubtedly and almost solely due to wage claims and increases. 
In 1975 the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  made this omnibus statement in his Budget Speech when he was Treasurer. He said: 
It does employees generally no good to get higher and higher money incomes if the results are just higher prices, a severe squeeze on profits, a slump in new investment and a contraction of job opportunities. 
They were not the words of Treasurer Lynch. They were not the words of an economic spokesman of this Government. They were the words of the honourable member for Oxley when he was the Treasurer of the last Labor Government and exercised in his economic statements a greater degree of responsibility than he has exercised in his economic statements over the past 12 months. 
I make it clear at the outset that the Government stands by its proposition that there is a link between wage increases and unemployment. Wages are a cost to employers. The capacity to pay higher wages does not come out of thin air. If it cannot be met by higher unit productivity it must be found by raising prices, taking lower profits, squeezing investment funds or balancing the total wages bill by reducing employment. It is the last factor which is the cause of concern to the Government. It has been the basis of so much argument put by the Government to the Arbitration Commission and generally in economic debate. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand dealt with the increase which had occurred in the profit share of gross domestic product as did the Arbitration Commission. He pointed- I accept his figure- to the frequent use of the long term trend of 17.5 per cent. The truth is that there has been an increase in the profit share, largely brought about through the policies of the present Government, from 12 per cent which is an extremely low base in historic terms to approximately 14 per cent. Whilst that represents a considerable improvement, I do not accept that it represents the massive improvement which was put to us a moment ago by the honourable member for Gellibrand, nor does it represent a situation in which there can be any complacency in thinking that a proper balance in profit sharing has now been achieved in the Australian economy. 
The basis of the attack made by the honourable member for Gellibrand centred on the argument addressed before the Commission- it has been repeated outside the Commissionconcerning whether there has been a reduction in real wages. The honourable member referred to page 4 of the judgment of the Full Bench. Dealing with the period from the June quarter 1 976 to the June quarter 1977 the Commission used the increase in the consumer price index of 13.4 per cent The Commission argued- the honourable member for Gellibrand accepted the proposition and would have the House accept it- that because the consumer price index had increased by 13.4 per cent against respective increases of 10.8 per cent, 10.9 per cent and 1 1.8 per cent in average weekly earnings for adult male minimum wage earners and adult female minimum wage earners, there had in fact been a real reduction in wages. 
The Government, of course, rejects the proposition that the correct index to use for such a comparison is 13.4 per cent. It will be of no surprise to the honourable member for Gellibrand for me to say that for a considerable period of time the Government has been arguing very strongly that if one is to get a proper picture of the underlying inflation rate in this country, a discounting of the figure of 1 3.4 per cent ought to be made to take into account the effects of the health insurance adjustments made in the December quarter of last year. If one uses the adjusted index after having made allowances for those health charges which came in on a onceonly basis in the December quarter last year the index will be lower than the three figures of 10.8 per cent, 10.9 per cent and 1 1.8 per cent to which I have referred. 
I know that the honourable member for Gellibrand does not accept that proposition, but I put it to him and to the House that it is proper to argue that because of the nature of the adjustments that were made to health insurance in the 
December quarter of last year and because of the circumstances that surrounded those adjustments, using the proper basis of comparison, namely, that lower index, there in fact has not been a reduction in the real level of wages. I say this leaving aside for the moment- I shall come to it shortly- changes to the level of household disposable income brought about by such matters as family allowances. The Commonwealth does not yield at all from the proposition that there is a direct link between the level of wages and the price of labour. I should be surprised if any correct analysis of the economic circumstances of Australia over the past 5 years could lead any impartial economic assessment to another conclusion. 
The fact of the matter is that we are still suffering very heavily from the wages explosion that we had in 1973 and 1974. The honourable member for Gellibrand knows very well that that wages explosion was the principal cause of the chain of events which led to the devaluation of the dollar in November 1976. He knows as well as I do that the uncompetitiveness of Australian industry which was brought about and so very significantly added to by that wages explosion in 1973-74 remains one of the principal employment and economic problems that we have at present. Until such time as it is possible for Australian industry to become more competitive and until it is possible for the produce of Australian manufacturing industry in particular to be more competitively priced on domestic markets we are continually going to see the erosion of market shares to imports and the decline of employment opportunities for Australians in Australia. 
The Government believes that it is a matter of simple economic logic that wages and the price of labour are a direct and continuing factor so far as employment levels are concerned. I repeat the disappointment which has been expressed already at the decision made by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. After one makes allowances for the discount factor of 0.4 per cent for devaluation, the figure decided upon by the Commission represents something of the order of 80 per cent of full wage indexation. The Government has not departed, from the time it took office in December 1975, from the view it holds very strongly that this country simply cannot afford full wage indexation. Whilst it is always possible to accuse governments of any persuasions of having changed their position on certain matters, the fact remains that there are central bases to the economic policy of this Government which have not changed since we came into office. They have not changed because we believe them to be correct. We believe the experience of the 3 years prior to our coming into office proved them to be correct. One of those propositions is the very strong belief that we cannot in current economic circumstances afford full wage indexation. For that reason we express again our disappointment that 80 per cent of full wage indexation was granted. 
We reject the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Gellibrand and others that in fact there has been a reduction in the real level of wages. We reject the proposition of the honourable member for Gellibrand that there is no significant link between the level of wages and the level of unemployment. This link has been acknowledged in times of greater responsibility on the part of the Opposition by colleagues of the honourable member for Gellibrand who now sit with him on the Opposition benches. We believe that this link exists particularly in the small business area. Ask any person who is trying to operate a small business in Australia what a contribution a wage increase will make to his capacity to avoid retrenchments and to re-employ people when added to that wage increase are the imposts of State payroll tax and workers' compensation insurance. Ask any small manufacturing enterprise around Australia the realities of continued wage increases so far as employment is concerned. I think that if we were to ask those questions we would get a resounding and overwhelming answer to the effect that the continued escalation in the cost of labour is a direct cause of retrenchments and of the inability of Australian industry, particularly in the manufacturing area- be it large or small- to re-employ people. 
For that reason the Government does not for one moment yield from its previously stated proposition, a proposition put to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, a proposition repeated last week by the Treasurer, with whose remarks I totally agree, that is, that there is a direct link between the cost of labour and the level of unemployment in this country. In the circumstances that I have described and bearing in mind the very strongly argued and held view of the Government that the correct index to use is that which discounts the one only health insurance costs incurred in the December quarter last year, I repeat that it is the view of the Government that, contrary to the view argued by the honourable member for Gellibrand, the real level of wages in this country has not fallen. That remains the view of the Government. 
-The task force to which the honourable gentleman referred has been working for a considerable time on the responsibilities given to it. I understand that the results of that investigation will shortly be available to the Government. I can assure the honourable gentleman that my colleague  Senator Cotton  will give quick attention to the recommendations of that task force. 
For the information of honourable members, I present on behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the production of gold. 
I move: 
Customs  Tariff Proposals  No. 26 ( 1 977 ) 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Proposals implement the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Temporary Assistance Authority in its reports on tyre cord fabrics; and vices. The effect of the decision on tyre cord fabrics is that an additional temporary duty of $2 per kilogram will apply to tyre cord fabrics imported in excess of quota entitlements. The decision on vices applies an additional temporary duty of $8 each on certain engineers' and woodworkers' vices and $ 1 2 each on other vices imported in excess of quota entitlements. 
The new duties will operate from tomorrow. 
I have had prepared a comprehensive summary of the changes which is now being circulated to honourable members. 
I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this matter? It may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this motion and Order of the Day No. 15, Government Business, relating to the motion to take note of the Second Report of the Ranger Uranium Inquiry. May I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both motions to be discussed in this debate. 

 - Mr Speaker, as, I think, the senior member of the Government in this House from the State of NSW and - 
-Yes, I am. 
-Yes, I do. 

 -Mr Speaker, during the course of his just concluded remarks the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  I think twice made the claim that the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party had - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The Leader of the Opposition twice made the totally incorrect statement that the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party, of which - 

 -Mr Speaker, the point of my personal explanation is that the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party did not inspire these proceedings and suggestions to that effect are quite incorrect. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith)  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a Bill to amend the Family Law Act 1975 to fix a maximum retiring age for judges of the Family Court of Australia. Honourable members will be well aware that one of the alterations to the Constitution that was approved by the referendum in May this year, and has since become law, introduced a maximum retiring age forjudges of the High Court and other Federal courts. The effect of this Constitution alteration is that any future appointee to the High Court or any other Federal court will have to retire by the age of 70 years. In the case of Federal courts other than the High Court, the Constitution alteration also enables the Parliament to prescribe by law a maximum retiring age for judges that is less than 70 years. This Bill seeks to exercise that newly acquired constitutional authority to prescribe a maximum retiring age for judges of the Family Court of Australia of 65 years. 
In 1974 the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs brought down a report on the Family Law Bill, then before the Senate, that was responsible for the insertion in the Bill of provision for the Family Court of Australia. In recommending the creation of a family court, the Committee expressed concern that if it were a Federal court the judges would have to be appointed for life, because it felt that judges of a family court should not continue to adjudicate when of advanced years. As a possible solution to the problem of life appointments to a Federal court, the Committee suggested the exercise of jurisdiction under the Act by judges appointed by the States, who could validly provide for the appointments to expire on the judges attaining a prescribed retiring age. Subsequently, arising out of this recommendation, an amendment was carried to the Family Law Bill to provide for the opportunity for the establishment of State family courts. Under this amendment, which is now section 41 of the Family Law Act, a State family court created pursuant to this provision may not exercise jurisdiction under the Family Law Act unless, amongst other things, judges of the court are to retire by the age of 65 years. Accordingly, judges of the Family Court of Western Australia, which has been established pursuant to section 41, have a retiring age of 65 years. 
Honourable members will recognise that this requirement, having been approved by both Houses of the Parliament, provides a compelling reason for prescribing an identical retiring age forjudges of the Family Court of Australia, now that the Constitution alteration has made this possible. Further, the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on a retiring age for Federal judges, which led to the Constitution alteration, specifically recommended 65 years as an appropriate age for judges of the Family Court. After the proposal to amend the Constitution to provide for the retirement of Federal judges was raised, and before the referendum on the Constitution alteration in May, the former AttorneyGeneral made known his preference for a retirement age of 65 years for judges of the Family Court of Australia. The vote in the referendum on the Constitution alteration should therefore be seen against the background of his publicly stated preference for a retirement age of 65 years for judges of this particular Federal court. Honourable members will also, of course, be well aware that 65 years is the maximum retiring age for the great majority of employees and office-holders in Australia, including the holders of non-judicial offices of comparable status to that of judges of the Family Court. 
It is true that the Constitution alteration prescribes 70 years as the maximum retiring age for judges of the High Court, and forjudges of other Federal courts unless and until the Parliament otherwise provides. It is also true that 70 years is the maximum retiring age forjudges of the great majority of State supreme courts and other courts. However, it is generally conceded that in family law, more than in most other areas of the law, judges adjudicating over disputes should be aware of and keep abreast of current social values and attitudes. For this reason, and also because of the demanding and arduous nature of at least some of the disputes- notably, defended custody disputes- there seems to be good reason for requiring judges of the Family Court to retire at least by the age recognised as the maximum retiring age for most other occupations in the community. Accordingly, this Bill prescribes the age of 65 years as the maximum retiring age for judges of the Family Court. The Constitution alteration relating to judges' retiring ages provides that the maximum retiring age applies only to judges appointed after the alteration became law. Since all the existing judges of the Family 
Court of Australia were appointed before that date, the maximum retiring age prescribed by the Bill will apply only to future appointees to the Court. 
The Bill makes two other amendments to the Family Law Act. One is a formal amendment consequential on the passing of the Constitution alteration. The other is an amendment consequential on the prescribing of the retiring age. By virtue of an amendment earlier this year to the Family Law (Judges) Regulations, up to six additional judges may be appointed to the Family Court. The Attorney-General expects up to this number to be appointed within the next 12 months. Since some, if not all, of these additional appointments are needed urgently by the Court, I ask honourable members to give this Bill a speedy passage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No companies claim to be complete manufacturers of ball bearings in Australia. 
Three companies are engaged in ball bearing production in Australia using imported materials and components. All three import complete ball bearings to complement their locally produced range. The firms are: S.K.F. Australia (Manufacturing) Pty Ltd, at Echuca, Victoria; Australian Koyo Ltd, at Waterloo, NSW: and N.S.K. Manufacturing (Australia) Pty Ltd, at Geelong, Victoria. 
lam advised that: 
S.K.F. employs 260 people at Echuca including one specialist from Sweden 
Australian Koyo employs 70 people at Waterloo including four specialists from Japan 
N.S.K. employs 57 people at Geelong including two specialists from Japan. 
Commonwealth-State Working Party on the Transition from School to Work or Further Study (Question No. 1034) 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following answers have beenprepared from information supplied by the United States Civil Aeronautics Board. The data is presented in the form of seats available as the Civil Aeronautics Board considers that this unit is the best measure of the volume of charter services offered. 
United States originating charter seats for total destinations worldwide during the first quarter of 1977 were 557,200 compared with charter seats for total destinations world-wide during the whole of 1976 which were 2,252, 129. 
Thus charter flights offered in the first quarter of 1977 represented 24.7 per cent of total charter flights for 1976. 
(a) Of the total United States originating charter seats on flights to international destinations charter seats to Pacific Ocean destinations including Australia in 1976 totalled 91,749 and for the first quarter of 1977 totalled 9,419. 
Of these flights, charter seats to Australia in 1976 totalled 682 and for the first quarter of 1 977 totalled 100. 
Note: Round trips are counted twice. 
Statutory Marketing Boards Administered by Minister for Primary Industry (Question No. 941) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 met a  Mr Licardy  on two or three occasions in Sydney and Canberra in about October 1975, and prior to my appointment as Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
Since my appointment as Minister the only communication I can recall having had with  Mr Licardy  either direct or indirect was a telephone call from him of short duration and on a subject quite unrelated to my dudes or responsibilites as Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
No grants were approved for tourism projects during 1976-77. The Government announced the cessation of the tourism grants scheme in February 1976. During 1976-77 an amount of $831,825 was expended on this item, which fully discharged the Commonwealth's commitments under the scheme. 
No funds have been provided for expenditure on this item in 1977-78. 
Agreements Between Newspaper Publishers and Newsagents (QuestionNo.1193) 
by leave- I make this statement in the absence of my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is indisposed. As indicated by the Prime Minister on 26 August last the Government has had under consideration the role of the Industries Assistance Commission in current economic circumstances. I am now able to inform the House of decisions the Government has taken regarding proposed amendments to the Industries Assistance Commission Act. I should make it clear at the outset that the Government remains committed to the principle of independent public inquiry into industry assistance matters by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority. The changes decided upon by the Government are designed to ensure that recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission are made in the light of Government policy and that the reports of the Commission furnish to the Government all relevant information so that fully informed decisions can be made by the Government. 
The changes will not compromise the independent role for which the Commission was established and are fully consistent with the often stated policy of the Government that it is the role of the IAC to advise and the responsibility of the Government to decide upon the nature and levels of assistance which should be afforded particular industries. In its review of the role of the IAC the Government has been concerned to ensure that under the relevant legislation the Commission is able to respond fully to the Government's policy with respect to industry. In particular the Government wishes to ensure that the employment consequences of specific recommendations of the IAC are fully canvassed in its reports. 
Honourable members will be aware that in April 1976 the Government drew the attention of the Industries Assistance Commission to the Government parties' pre-election policy on tariffs and assistance. At that time the Government requested the Commission to report explicitly upon a number of matters in all future reports. In addition the Government included in the references sent to the Commission dealing with footwear, clothing and textiles specific reporting requests which dealt,  inter alia,  with employment considerations. The Government has decided to incorporate some of the matters referred to in its request of April 1976 and the references on footwear, clothing and textiles as amendments to the Industries Assistance Commission Act. 
The amendments to the Industries Assistance Commission Act decided upon by the Government are additional to those which were foreshadowed earlier this year. Those amendments related particularly to the temporary assistance provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act. The overall purpose of the further amendments is to make the statement of Government guidelines in section 22 of the Act more closely reflect Government objectives, and to ensure that Commission reports cover all the issues on which the Government wishes to have the advice of the Commission. The amendments involving changes to the statement of Government guidelines in section 22 (1) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act are aimed to ensure that these guidelines reflect more closely the Government's approach to industry policy. One amendment is to insert as the first subsection in the guidelines in section 22 ( 1) a statement of the Government's desire to achieve sustained growth in the Australian economy through balanced development of Australian industries thereby providing increased opportunities for employment and investment 
The Government also proposes to amend existing guideline (a) in section 22(1) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act to ensure that it expresses the Government's objective that any measure to achieve changes in the structure of industry aimed at improving the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used, are related to the capacity of the economy and the work force to absorb the changes involved. The Government also intends to amend the Act to empower the Minister to issue supplementary guidelines for the Commission and, as necessary, direct the Commission as to the priority it should place on the guidelines in the Act and on any supplementary guidelines given to it from time to time. A new section is to be added to the Act to provide that in its reports the Commission will explicitly report on the following: 
The assistance required to maintain the present level of activity and employment in the production of the goods under reference. If a lower level of assistance is recommended by the Commission, it shall be required to give the reasons why it does not recommend the assistance required to maintain the present level of activity and employment; 
whether in the Commission's view the structure of the industry could be improved and, if so, how this should be done and the consequences thereof; 
the probable consequences, economic, social and otherwise of changing existing levels of assistance, including the employment effects of its recommendations and their effects on employment in decentralised locations; and 
any other matter which the Minister may, from time to time, request the Commission to report on under this section. 
Consistent with the Government's view of the respective roles of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Government with respect to industry assistance matters it is in the Government's view important that both the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority be given through the Industries Assistance Commission Act a clear statement of the Government's objectives and a clear indication of the matters upon which the Government wishes to have advice in reports made to it by these two bodies. The Industries Assistance Commission will continue to deal with industry assistance matters of an on-going or longer term nature, while the Temporary Assistance Authority will deal with industry assistance matters of a temporary nature, deriving from import competition. 
I wish particularly to draw attention to the Government's intention which was stated in the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry, in these terms:  . . circumstances such as those experienced in recent times will require emphasis on short-term policies which enable employment opportunities to be maintained until sound and sustainable growth is restored. The Government will therefore adopt appropriate measures of temporary assistance to support industry and to provide for the resolution of immediately urgent problems. 
As indicated in my statement to the House earlier this year, the Act will continue to provide for the Temporary Assistance Authority to have regard generally to the same guidelines as apply to the Commission under section 22 ( 1 ) of the Act. However, the Government has decided to include a new provision in the Act to indicate that the substantial purpose of an inquiry by the Temporary Assistance Authority is to report on the level of assistance necessary to maintain the current level of activity and employment in the production of the goods under reference for a defined period. 
Under the amendments already foreshadowed the length of the period for which temporary assistance may be accorded will depend on the particular circumstances. Where the industry has been the recipient of temporary assistance for two of the past four years, a reference on long term assistance will be sent immediately to the IAC and the temporary assistance will continue until three months after receipt of the IAC's report. Where the industry has not received temporary assistance for two of the past four years, the temporary assistance will run for up to 12 months in the first instance. This period could be extended to up to two years following a further report from either the Temporary Assistance Authority or the IAC. The provision of assistance beyond two years requires an inquiry by the IAC. 
It is the Government's intention to introduce amendments to the IAC Act dealing with the previously foreshadowed changes relating to the Temporary Assistance Authority and the fresh changes I have outlined in this statement at the earliest opportunity. I commend the statement to the House. I present the following papen 
Amendments to the Industries Assistance Commission Act-Ministerial Statement, IS September 1977. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill 1977 now before the House is to reduce the export duty on high quality coking coal from $4.50 to $3 per tonne and on other coking coal from $1.50 to $1 per tonne. Honourable members will recall that these changes were foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech on 16 August 1977 and that, following that speech, Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Proposals were introduced to authorise collection of duty at the reduced rates with effect from 8 o'clock that evening. The reductions proposed by this Bill for enactment represent a further step by the Government towards achieving the intention stated in 1976 of phasing out the export duty on coal over three years. It is the Government's intention to remove the remaining duty next year in accordance with the undertaking to which I have referred. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1977 is to enact excise tariff alterations introduced into this House on 16 August 1977 by Excise Tariffproposals Nos 1 and 2. Clause 4 of the Bill increases the rate of excise duty on coal from 4.3c to 10c per tonne, with effect from 1 July 1 977 in accordance with a notice pursuant to section 160b of the Excise Act 1901 published in the  Gazette  of 30 June 1977. The total excise duty collected on coal is applied to the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund established under the States Grants (Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave) Act 1 949 administered by my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the increase proposed is necessary to preserve the viability of the Fund. Clause 5 of the Bill, in conjunction with clause 3 and the Schedule, proposes enactment of the alterations in excise duty foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech on 16 August 1977 and which were set out in Excise Tariff Proposal No. 2 introduced into the Parliament later that evening to authorise collection at the altered rates with effect from the time of the announcement. The alterations proposed, which are set out in detail in notes on clauses which have been circulated, provide for increases of a quarter of a cent per litre on refined petroleum products and 50 per cent on crude oil and condensate, with the exception of condensate marketed separately from crude oil. The Bill proposes, in relation to such condensate, the total removal of the present duty of 1.26c per litre. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Law Reform Commission on human tissue transplants. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
None. 
Not applicable. 
Nil. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as shown in the attached statistical tables prepared by the Department of Overseas Trade: 
For the information of honourable members I present a document entitled 'Australia's Trade and Economic Relations with the European Communities', being a copy of a document which I handed to the Commission of the European Communities in Brussels last Thursday. 
-On behalf of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  I move: 
That Standing Order 103- the 11 o'clock rule-and the sessional order of 10 March relating to the adjournment of sittings be suspended for the remainder of the session. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In commending this Bin to the House, I draw the attention of the House to the contents of the second reading speech made in respect of the Aus.tralian Capital Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill 1977. The remarks contained in that speech apply equally to the measure I have just introduced. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and the Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill 1977 which I will be presenting shortly are introduced so as to permit the making of regulations fixing fees to be charged in the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. In the past, fees have been fixed by Rules of Court which, of course, are made by the Judges of each court. 
The previous Labor Government had a policy that, generally speaking, court fees should not be charged. In pursuance of that policy the Judges of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Supreme Courts amended the Rules of each Court to abolish most fees in these Courts. This Government believes that court fees should be imposed, so that those who have recourse to the courts will contribute towards their cost. When this matter was raised with the Judges, the Australian Capital Territory Judges pointed out, quite properly, that the question of court fees appeared to have some political significance because of the difference of view between the previous Government and this Government, and that it may therefore be more appropriate for fees to be imposed by the Executive Government. The Government respects the position of the Territory judges in not wishing to be involved in a matter of this kind that might be the subject of political difference. Accordingly the present Bills are brought in. 
I would add that the Federal Court of Australia Act and the Family Law Act each empowers the making of regulations to provide for fees payable in respect of proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia and in the Family Court of Australia and other courts exercising jurisdiction under the Family Law Act. The proposed amendments to the Territory Supreme Court Acts therefore bring them into line with the other courts created by the Parliament in this respect. I commend this Bui to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Industry and Commerce for the year ended 30 June 1977. The report also includes some subsequent developments. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973, I present the report of the Law Reform Commission on 'Insolvency: Regular payment of debts'. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975, 1 present the annual report of the Administrative Review Council for 1976-77. 
Pursuant to section 115(9) of the Family Law Act 1975, I present the first annual report 1977, of the Family Law Council. Copies of the report will be sent to all honourable members as soon as bulk supplies become available, In the meantime, copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and Table Office. 
-I think it would be clear to all honourable gentlemen in this House, particularly those who sit on the Government side, that the balance of trading opportunities between Australia and the European Economic Community is totally unsatisfactory and totally inequitable to the efficient and competitive primary producers in Australia. For that reason the Government took the step of appointing a Minister with specific responsibility for this area. It was very interesting to note that while I was overseas the estimates for the Department of Special Trade Negotiations were considered and the attitude taken by the Opposition was simply that the whole exercise was a waste of time. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide says: "That is right'. I think that ought to be on record for the benefit of every primary producer. 
-This debate is about the political credibility of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  It is entirely appropriate that at this time and in this place we should have a debate about the political credibility of the Leader of the Opposition. We ought to have that debate for two reasons: Firstly, to remind the Australian people of just what happened when he was in charge of the affairs of this nation and, secondly, to remind them that if, by mischance, he were ever given the opportunity to be Prime Minister again he would do it all again. Out of his own mouth is an admission that if ever the Labor Party became the Government of this country again he would do it all again. 
I think one of the most interesting commentaries on the political fortunes of the Labor Party that can be found at present is an analysis of its approach at Question Time. One would have thought that a parliamentary opposition, six weeks before an election, an election which it says it has a chance of winning, would have organised itself at Question Time and would have endeavoured to probe the policies and the performance of the Government But no, do we see any sign of organisation? Do we see any trace of a systematic approach? No! The only element of co-ordination and synchronisation which has come from the Opposition during Question Time has been scurrilous attempts to impugn the integrity of certain Ministers of this Government. The levels to which members of the Opposition have sunk, particularly the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the sort of questions that have been asked and the sort of implications in them are a very sad commentary. They are a very sad commentary on the contribution to political life by the Parliamentary Labor Party at present. 
More interesting even than that is that those actions are a commentary on the Labor Party's own assessment of its chances of winning this election. They are a commentary on the internal divisions which are apparent to all of us on this side of the House. Where, for example, is1 the putative Treasurer of this country, the honourable member for Adelaide^  (Mr Hurford)?  Where is he? We are having a debate on economic management and on the economic policies of the Labor Party when it was last in power. Where is he? He is not present. Where, for example, is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)?  I see he has finally graced us with his presence. This debate is about the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition and in a broader sense it is about the credibility of the Labor Party as an alternative government of this country. 
In the short space of 1 5 minutes it is impossible to categorise all the misleading statements which have been made by the Leader of the Opposition and more recently by the honourable member for Oxley (  Mr Hayden).  Perhaps the greatest untruth of all that has been put around persistently in the past 12 months is that this Government has used unemployment as an instrument for fighting inflation. Time and time again, Labor spokesmen have tried to demonstrate that we have systematically used unemployment as an instrument of fighting inflation. Not only is that statement incorrect, but also it can be more accurately applied to the policies that were pursued by the Labor Party when it was in office. During Question Time yesterday and today the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  referred to that rather infamous document that was commissioned in 1973 entitled 'A Report on Possible Ways of Increasing Imports'. In other words it was a report on how to export more Australian jobs. 
-Of course the Labor Party would do it again. It was quite blatant and unrepentent at the time as to its objective. Out of bis own mouth, the present Leader of the Opposition, shortly after announcing the decision for a 23 per cent tariff cut, said: 
These measures will allow us to keep inflationary tendencies under control. 
In other words he was using the deliberate dismantling of protection for Australian industry and the resultant unemployment as an instrument for fighting inflation. In other words he was sacrificing the jobs of thousands of Australian people. He was doing it quite openly and quite deliberately. Of course the real falsehood of it all is that the very charge which is so untruthfully levelled against us was the very practice which was indulged in By the Labor Party when it was in office. 
That action and these statements were symptomatic of the punitive attitude that the Leader of the Opposition took to so many sectors of our nation while he was Prime Minister. It is very strange that a person who seeks political support should take such a punitive attitude to so much of the Australian nation. His punitive attitude to the primary industries of Australia is well known. Is there any sign that he would be any different if he were again Prime Minister? Is there any sign that he would not again go to the rural areas of Australia and wave his finger at an audience and say: 'You have never had it so good*? Is there any sign that he has learnt a lesson from the fact that as a result of the last election not one single Labor member in this House represents a genuinely rural area of Australia? Has he really learnt that lesson? Of course he has not. 
The punitive attitude of the Leader of the Opposition is not restricted to primary industry. He does not do things in small measures. He also has a punitive attitude to manufacturing industry. That attitude is extremely well known. It reached its dizzy height during his famous address to the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association in 1975 when he talked about the nervous Nellies. Do honourable members remember the talk about the nervous Nellies? Who were the nervous Nellies? They were ordinary Australian people who were worried about losing their jobs m Tasmania. They were also, incidentally, some of his own parliamentary colleagues. So obsessed was the Leader of the Opposition at that time with his punitive approach to manufacturing industry that he regarded his colleague and the Australian people who were concerned about jobs as being nervous Nellies. 
Do honourable members really think that the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition towards manufacturing industry has changed? Do they really imagine that if he were given another opportunity he would not do it all again? Of course he would. What did he say in his address to the National Press Club on 20 July this year in answer to a question about levels of protection for Australian manufacturing industry? He said: 
There is no doubt that Australian industry is excessively protected. 
In other words, the Leader of the Opposition was saying very plainly: 'Give me another chance and I will export some more jobs'. Of course that is what he was saying. Give him another chance and he would certainly export some more jobs. 
It is right that this House should today look very carefully at the credibility and the truthfulness of statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. He is asking that in the weeks ahead the Australian people again make him Prime Minister. I believe that it is the duty of this House and it is our duty as members of this House to remind ourselves of what happened between the years 1972 and 1975. We should remind ourselves that, when we listen to the statements of the Leader of the Opposition in the coming weeks, we cannot believe everything we are told. Not only can we not believe everything we are told, but also we cannot believe that he believes everything he tells us. An interesting point about the Leader of the Opposition is that not only does he occasionally say things that are not correct, but also he occasionally says things which contradict what he has said on earlier occasions. One of the more interesting examples of this is a statement that he made on the television program  This Day Tonight  on 26 October 1 977. He said: 
It didn't hit Australia worse than other countries. 
He went on to say: 
When it went bad under us - 
As we all know, it went very bad under his Government- it went bad in every Western country without exception. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that in October 1977. On 21 January 1975, when he was Prime Minister, he was quoted by the Melbourne  Age- surety  he would agree that is a reputable newspaper- as saying: 
Excessive wage demands had caused Australia's unemployment and inflation crisis. 
He then went on to say: 
You cannot blame Vietnam for inflation in the Western world. You cannot blame the oil crisis for inflation in Australia. You cannot blame the takeovers and the currency rates for inflation in Australia now. You have to place the blame on wage claims. 
In other words, not only was he on that occasion speaking an element of economic truth, but also he was totally contradicting the stance that he had taken on other occasions. Of course, that is illustrative of the carelessness displayed by the Leader of the Opposition towards truth. Last night, during his interview on the Willesee program, he said that the total cost of the taxation concessions given by this Government to the mining industry amounted to $ 1 billion. The true figure, of course, of $560m is almost half that. Last night he accused this Government of having twice devalued the dollar and denied that there was any devaluation under the previous Government. Everybody knows that a 12 per cent devaluation took place in September 1974. Everybody remembers that infamous September quarter of 1974 when unemployment rose by 53 per cent, when inflation reached a figure of 20 per cent and when interest rates rose to 10 per cent. Indeed, it was one of the worst quarters of all during the time that the previous Government was in office. 
It is right that we should draw the attention of the Australian people to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition led the most disastrous government that this country has had since Federation. Of course, he is a person of great modesty, a person who is still quite happy to describe himself as the greatest Foreign Minister this country has had in the past 25 years. Above all, we in this House have an obligation to remind the Australian people that, far from having learnt any lessons during the period that he was in office, the Leader of the Opposition would do it all again. He would return to the printing presses. He would increase government spending to a new level of irresponsibility. He would create once again the levels of unemployment, the levels of inflation, the lack of business confidence, the feeling of division between country and city, and the feeling of isolation in sectors of the Australian community that was so evident between 1972 and 1975. 1 have not the slightest doubt that if, during the next five weeks, the Australian people are reminded, as they have been reminded today, of what happened between 1972 and 1975 and also - 
-That is the longest time that they will sit on those benches for many years to come. During the next five weeks we will certainly be reminding the Australian people of what it was like under Whitlam between 1972 and 1975. We will be reminding the people that if he should ever get the chance he would do it all again. He would be totally unrepentant and would lead this country in the manner in which he did during those years. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Pursuant to section 46 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Law Reform Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is no. 
The Attorney-General has provided the information sought in the honourable member's question in the reply provided by him to question No. 1533 asked by the honourable member. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Amended copies of the Constitution are not yet available. However, a reprint of the Constitution incorporating the 1977 amendments, which were assented to on 29 July, as wei as up-to-date notes and an index, is in course of preparation. The first proofs of the new reprint have been obtained and are now with the Government Printer for revision. I expect the reprint to be available to the public some time next month. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Attorney-General's attention has been drawn to a statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the House of Representatives on 21 September 1977 in answer to a question by the honourable member concerning child abductions. 
The Attorney-General agrees that there should be no delay in implementing any action that has been recommended to prevent the removal of children from Australia against the wishes of a parent entitled to custody or access. 
The question of restricting other than through a Court order under the Family Law Act the right of persons to depart from Australia is the concern of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, as well as the Attorney-General. As indicated in the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to in ( 1) above, the interdepartmental committee that recommended amendments to the Passports Act also recommended further examination of other measures to meet the problem raised by the honourable member. The Attorney-General will see that the honourable member's suggestion is considered in the course of that further examination. 
Sections 64 and 70 of the Family Law Act already authorise a Court to order the passports of a child or any other person to be delivered up to the Court if there is a possibility of the removal of the child from Australia or the person has deliberately defied a custody or access order. Sections 68 and 69 enable Australia to implement arrangements with other countries for reciprocal enforcement of custody orders. The Government is actively pursuing the possibility of such arrangements with a number of overseas countries with a view to concluding such arrangements. In view of these provisions and the provisions of the Migration Act to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred in his statement (see answer to ( 1 ) above), there are no plans to make other amendments to the Family Law Act pending any recommendations as a result of the further examination referred to in ( 3 ) above. 
In a press release dated 23 September 1977 the Attorney-General stated that 'he proposed that possibly next year, a parliamentary committee should review the Family Law Act to determine whether any changes to the broad principles of the Act should be made. . . .' 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No enforcement officers have been appointed to the Family Court of Australia pursuant to sub-section (12) of section 64 of the Family Law Act. However, a Marshall and a number of Deputy Marshalls have been appointed as officers of the Court pursuant to section 37 of the Act. The Marshall and Deputy Marshalls are aU members of the Commonwealth Police. 
and (3) The Commonwealth Police come under the administration of the Minister for Administrative Services. The Minister has advised that the Commonwealth Police will endeavour to locate children named in warrants issued under section 64 of the Family Law Act. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 1 1 1 6. 
Minister for Veterans' Affairs: Overseas Travel (Question Na 1633) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 

The administration of the criminal law and procedures is not the responsibility of the Commonwealth alone. The responsibility is shared by the Commonwealth and the States. The procedure whereby accused persons in criminal trials make unsworn statements from the dock which are not subject to cross-examination is of longstanding. Any change to this procedure, whether in relation to particular offences, such as the honourable member mentions, or in relation to all offences, is a matter which needs to be fully considered by Governments responsible. This procedure has recently been examined in England and Scotland but no changes have been made. The Government is maintaining a close watch on developments in this area. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (4) The proceedings to which the honourable member refers came before the Chief Magistrate on 21 July 1977 for the purpose of fixing a date for their hearing. The date then fixed was 7 October 1977. The proceedings were part heard on 7 October 1977 and adjourned, the Chief Magistrate having reserved his decision on several submissions that had been made. 
A Stipendiary Magistrate was appointed on 22 September 1977 to fill an existing vacancy on the Court On that date a Special Magistrate was also appointed. These appointments will help relieve the workload of the Court and are expected to make significant inroads into the number of cases awaiting hearing. I am informed that the Chief Magistrate has since invited practitioners and parties to apply to him for expedited hearing of urgent matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are 1 1 main library systems under the aegis of the Attorney-General. 
These are:- 
Attorney-General's Department Central Office Library in Canberra with branches in the Deputy Crown Solicitor's Offices in the States and Territories. 
Australian Legal Aid Office Central Library in Canberra with Branches and Regional Offices in the States and Territories. 
High Court of Australia, which has a library in Melbourne and Sydney. 
Institute of Legislative Drafting Library, Canberra. 
Australian Law Reform Commission Library, Sydney. 
ACT Supreme Court Library, Canberra. 
Northern Territory Supreme Court Library. Branches are located in Alice Springs and Darwin. 
Australian Institute of Criminology, Canberra. 
Administrative Appeals Tribunal Library, Canberra. 
Family Court of Australia. The Central Library is located in Sydney, and Branches are located in each State. 
Federal Court of Australia. Small collections of material are held in each State. 
The main purpose of these libraries is to provide collections of legal material for use of members of the Judiciary and legal officers employed by the Commonwealth, and to provide a reference and research service. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My predecessor has stated previously, in reply to the honourable member's questions relating to the grant of financial assistance, that he did not think it appropriate to make public information about particular applicants for legal aid who are entitled to expect that information supplied would be kept confidential. I propose to follow the same policy. I would be prepared, however, to make the information available to the honourable member, if he wishes, on a confidential basis. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A statutory declaration was made by Geoffrey Dimmock Nicoll on 7 May 1976 concerning negotiations for the sale of Lockheed Electra Aircraft in the following terms: 
*I, GEOFFREY DIMMOCK NICOLL of Hat 1, 16 Gladstone Parade, Elsternwick, Victoria 3185, do solemnly and sincerely declare: 
1 am the Managing Director of Nicoll-Cooke Pty Ltd, Manufacturers' Agents and Aerospace Consultants of Bryson Centre, 186 Exhibition Street, Melbourne in the said State. 
THIS company is presently consultant to the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation of Burbank, California in the United States of America. 
FROM August 1951 until October 1963 1 was employed by E. L. Heymanson &amp; Company Pty Ltd as Manager of the Aviation Division of the company. 
DURING the period 1957 to 1959 I was intimately associated with the sale of Lockheed Electra Aircraft to Australian National Airways Pty Ltd, to Trans-Australia Airlines and to Qantas Empire Airways Limited. Three aircraft were sold to Australian National Airways Pty Ltd, three to Trans Australia Airlines and four to Qantas Empire Airways Limited. E. L. Heymanson &amp; Company Pty Ltd were not concerned in negotiating the sale of Lockheed Electra Aircraft to Tasman Empire Airways Limited. 
THE negotiations with the three Airlines were conducted on a highly competitive basis, and contracts were executed directly between Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and the individual Airlines. 
IN accordance with a properly executed sales representation agreement between Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and E. L. Heymanson &amp; Company Pty Ltd, the latter company was entitled to commission at an agreed rate on each aircraft sold within the Commonwealth of Australia. Commission was at a normal recognized rate in the trade and was to the best of my recollection of the order 1  Vi  per cent to 2 per cent. 
THE commission on the sale of all the aircraft was eventually paid direct by the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation to E. L. Heymanson &amp; Company Pty Ltd in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Sales Representation Agreement between the two companies. 
IN my negotiations no arrangement of any kind was ever mentioned in regard to any part of the commission being paid to any person or company other than E. L. Heymanson &amp; Company Pty Ltd or by E. L. Heymanson &amp; Company Pty Ltd to any other person or company. 
1 firmly and conscientiously believe that no commission in respect of the said sales was paid by E. L. Heymanson &amp; Company Pty Ltd to the then  Senator Shane  Partridge Minister for Civil Aviation or to any other person or company. ' 
Neither I nor my Department has any knowledge of a visit by Government Senators to a  Mr Peter  Mingrove in Los Angeles in 1976. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Prime Minister provided an answer to a related question in the Senate on 8 November 1977, see Senate Question 1 1 16. 1 have nothing to add to the answer provided by the' Prime Minister. 
Expenditure on Overseas and Domestic Travel 1976-77  (Question Na 1634) 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The implementation of the Convention providing a uniform law on the Form of an International Will has not yet been discussed with State Attorneys-General. 
I hope that it will be practicable to put the matter on the agenda of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General in the near future. 
In answer to the honourable gentleman, yes, I am aware of those figures. I would give the customary caution, for the benefit of the honourable gentleman, against drawing too many inferences from one month's set of statistics. The honourable gentleman's question implies that there will be an unusually severe situation so far as the liquidity rundown is concerned between now and the end of the financial year. The Prime Minister has already canvassed this matter in his answer to an earlier question. It will not be unusually severe. The matter will be the subject of constant monitoring by the Reserve Bank and, as the Prime Minister indicated, the Reserve Bank has available an armoury of facilities to ease any problems that do arise in terms of that rundown. I can assure the honourable gentleman that that part of his question which conveyed a genuine concern will be kept very much in mind by the Government. 
-I think the Leader of the Opposition has fallen into the same error as have a number of commentators on this subject in regard to a comparison of the rates offered on Australian savings bonds and rates offered on comparable deposits by banks and building societies. They have taken a fairly selective comparison of reductions in the rates of the ASBs as opposed to those for building societies and banks. The fact is that reductions in official interest rates have run significantly ahead of reductions in interest rates offered by banks ana building societies. 
Whereas it is true that the Australian savings bond Series 1 1 effected a reduction of only 0.25 per cent against 0.5 per cent by the banks and the building societies, it is equally true that since the middle of last year there has been a total reduction of the order of one per cent in the rates offered on ASBs and something in excess of one per cent in the long term bond rate. If the honourable gentleman were to take that into account I think he would have a far better perspective of the situation regarding the comparative competitive position of the ASB and the deposits offered by the banks and the building societies. 
I do not agree that the action of the Government in reissuing the ASB Series 1 1 at a rate of 9 per cent has altered the comparative competitive position of the ASB and the banks and building societies. When the honourable gentleman is comparing interest rates and therefore the comparative competitive position, I exhort him to look at a longer time frame than the time frame which embraced the reduction of 0.25 per cent in the ASB rate and 0.5 per cent in bank interest rates. 
I do recall a statement made by the Australian Bankers Association after the reduction in interest rates. It is not correct, certainly so far as the Government is concerned and so far as any actions that lie within the control of the Government are concerned, to infer, as the honourable member has done, that that statement was made by the Australian Bankers Association in the belief that Series 1 1 would not in fact be issued. 
If the honourable gentleman will allow me to respond insofar as his question relates to beliefs and actions of the Governmentthat is the only area in which I can respond- I can say that at no stage did the Government or indeed, as I am advised, did the Reserve Bank of Australia during the course of the discussions with the banks or the Bankers Association indicate in any way or represent in any way that there would not be a fresh issue of the Australian savings bond. I think that if the honourable gentleman were carefully to read again a statement I issued when I indicated that the Reserve Bank had been instructed to enter into consultations with the banks, he would find no indication at all that the Government - 
-The question of whether the banks thought so is a matter that you might more properly address to the banks. If it is being inferred that the Government misrepresented the situation to the banks, that is a completely incorrect inference. 
At the outset it may be said that if this debate is to be a serious debate on the unemployment level in Australia and a serious consideration of methods by which current unemployment might be solved one recognition may be conceded on both sides; namely, that at the very least the Opposition and the Government are agreed in their concern about the present level of unemployment. I want to make one thing very clear at the outset. I wish to put to rest the rather facetious and certainly incorrect claim that is so frequently made by members of the Opposition that it is an instrument of the Government's economic policy to maintain a significantly high level of unemployment. It has never been part of the policy of the Government to use unemployment as an economic weapon. We have not used it at any time since we came into office, and we will not use it at any time while we remain in office. 
The differences that exist between the Government and the Opposition on the level of unemployment are not differences of concern about that level but rather differences in methodology. In other words, the Government disagrees fundamentally with the approach taken by the Opposition as to how the level of unemployment can be solved. We in the Government believe that one cannot look at the level of unemployment without looking at the level of inflation. We believe that one cannot look at the level of unemployment now without acknowledging the significance of wages policy to unemployment. It is very significant that there were two major omissions from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Apart from one fleeting reference, and that was by way of criticism of the Government's policy of opposing full wage indexation, he did not make a single reference to the relevance of wages policy and wage increases to the level of unemployment. Had the Leader of the Opposition intended his remarks today to be a set-piece statement of the Opposition's approach to the principal economic problems at present, it was a very dismal commentary on his understanding of our economic policies to devote 15 minutes of this Parliament's time to an attack on the level of unemployment and not make one reference to the contribution that the wages explosion of a few years ago made to that level and not to make one reference to the success of the Government's wages policy in the long-term solution to unemployment. 
I think it is very interesting that he talked about the alleged benign neglect of the Prime Minister and the Ministry towards unemployment. He ought to look to his own benign neglect of the relevance of wages policy to unemployment. He ought to recall some remarks he made in 1975 when he was seized of the more immediate responsibilities of trying to solve some of the intractable economic problems that the Government of which he was a member had created. During his Budget Speech in 1975 his references to unemployment were replete with concern about wage increases and squeezes on profits. He said: 
It does employees generally no good to get higher and higher money incomes if the results are just higher prices, a severe squeeze on profits, a slump in new investment and a contraction of job opportunities. 
On that occasion his economics were fairly good. On that occasion he was talking sense about the relationship between inflation and unemployment and the relationship between wage increases and unemployment. Now, in February 1 978 at the beginning of a parliamentary session, no longer seized with the responsibility of addressing serious and proper solutions to unemployment, he devoted a 1 5 -minute speech to the problem of unemployment, which he described as the worst since the Great Depression. Yet, he made no mention of the link between inflation and unemployment and not one constructive reference to the significance of wage increases and the relevance of wages policy to unemployment. 
The Leader of the Opposition accused the Government of ad hoc economic policies. If there is one thing that the Government cannot be accused of, even by its fiercest critics in the economics area, it is ad hockery in the economic sphere. One thing that has characterised the Government's economic policy since it took office in 1975 is a very strong and persistent adherence to a basic economic strategy- at times a strategy which has been criticised, a strategy which over a period has started to show results and started to deliver the goods in economic performance. He persists with his description of the Australian economy as one which is currently in a deep recession. He constantly talks about the recession that exists in Australia. Of course he ignores the very significant results that the Government has achieved in reducing inflation. 
The Leader of the Opposition ignores the fact that, on the activities side, the national accounts for the September quarter, which form the most recently published consolidated resume of economic indicators and economic performance in Australia, show that the real gross non-farm product rose by 1.2 per cent for the September quarter, that consumer spending increased by 1 .9 per cent and business investment by 4. 1 per cent. He ignores the recently published figures covering the December quarter in relation to capital expenditure. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey, the increase during that quarter was, on a seasonally adjusted basis at current prices, 7 per cent, indicating a further strong real increase. He ignores the very significant improvement that has occurred particularly in the mining industry investment area and more modestly in the manufacturing industry investment area. He ignores the steady increase in the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, as indicated by the most recently published figures. 
So the Government rejects at the outset of this parliamentary term the notion that the Australian economy is in any kind of recession. We reject the notion that there is any shortcut solution to the problem of unemployment. What has the Leader of the Opposition advanced during his 15-minute speech in the way of an alternative economic policy? He has not advanced any alternative economic policy. The only contributions that the Leader of the Opposition has made in recent months to alternative economic strategies were those made shortly before the August Budget of last year. At that time the Leader of the Opposition joined with his then Leader to issue a lengthy statement on the economy. If the policies contained in that statement were carried out they would have effectively added in excess of $ 1,000m to the deficit for that year. 
During the election campaign he was a principal party to a policy which would have taken away the taxation reductions that are now available to all Australian taxpayers. They were put in effect as from 1 February. That policy advocated the use of that money to fund the abolition of payroll tax, a device and a procedure which would have had dubious consequences in reducing the level of unemployment. The Leader of the Opposition chose to attack the taxation reductions implemented by the present Government. So let it be recorded that on the first sitting day of this new parliamentary session the Leader of the Opposition has attacked the taxation reductions introduced by the present Government. He criticises them as being inequitable; he criticises them as being of enormous benefit to the wealthy in the community; he criticises them as being socially unfair. 
Of course, under the new revised taxation scale a person on a high income receives a greater money benefit. That is a matter of simple logic because of the fact that that person in the first place pays a much higher level of tax in money terms. It would be an extremely odd restructuring of a progressive income tax scale if that result were not to occur. But to categorise that as being some kind of selective fiddle for the benefit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other people in the community is, I think, doing less than justice to the office which the honourable gentleman now occupies. The truth of the matter is that the 10 per cent of Australians who are in the highest income tax bracket paid, prior to the introduction of the new tax scale, approximately 37.8 per cent of total income tax collections. Under the new revised scale they pay approximately 37.3 per cent. So in terms of the total burden of taxation borne by the high income earners in Australia- the so-called wealthy people in Australia- there has in reality been no significant lightening of that burden in relation to the rest of the community. 
The people who reap the real benefits of these tax reductions, I believe, are those to be found in the middle income brackets. No longer does a person who earns $ 10,000 a year and who wishes by way of overtime or extra effort to increase that income jump into a much higher tax bracket by passing the $12,500 a year mark. In fact, the standard rate of taxation of 32c in the dollar remains constant until a person reaches an income of $16,000 a year. I think one of the very beneficial aspects of the taxation revisions which the Government has introduced is the extent to which, in that particular area, there will be greater incentive and greater encouragement for people to earn a higher income and to work harder. 
The debate is about, and ought to be about, the alternative strategies which the Government and the Opposition ought to adopt towards the question of unemployment. My colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  will deal in more detail with the specific schemes which the Government has introduced to cater for certain aspects of the unemployment problem. I say again that the Government is absolutely resolute in its belief that there cannot be a long term lasting solution to the unemployment problem in Australia if that solution is divorced from the economic realities* of Australia at the present time. In other words, unemployment in Australia cannot be solved on a permanent basis if we ignore the consequences of inflation on the Australian economy. We cannot ignore the consequences of wage increases. 
I invite the attention of all honourable members to the submission of the Government in the current national wage case. If the Opposition really wished to make a contribution towards the unemployment problem in Australia it might use some of its influence with its political colleagues in the State governments of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania to persuade them to adopt a different approach towards national wage cases. The level of unemployment which we now face is of concern to the Government as well as to the Opposition. To have a policy stance at the Federal level which completely ignores the relevance of wage increases to unemployment and to have a policy stance at the State level which more or less advocates full wage indexation on every occasion is to ignore the economic realities of what caused unemployment at the levels we now experience first to occur. All honourable gentlemen know that unemployment of the order we now have occurred during the term of the previous Labor Government. Let that not be forgotten. Let it not be forgotten that the basic causes of the levels of unemployment that we now see were laid during those three years. Let us please have from the Opposition a constructive alternative policy which seriously assists in dealing with this issue. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. 
-The question of the appropriate basket to be used for the Australian exchange rate was, of course, considered at the time of devaluation in November 1976. It was decided on that occasion to adopt a trade weighted basket for a number of reasons. The first reason was that in realistic trade terms a trade weighted basket gives a more practical reflection of the flow of trade both in and out of Australia. Secondly, in pure statistical terms, the data available to operate an exchange rate on a trade weighted basket is more readily available than would be the case in respect of a currency weighted basket. 
The honourable member in the first part of his question asked whether the effect of using a trade weighted basket would be that a particular result would be achieved in respect of the relationship between the American dollar and the Australian dollar. I draw his attention to a section in the statement I issued some three weeks ago regarding the position of Australia's external account. In that statement I indicated that because of fluctuations that had occurred in the level of the American dollar, in administering the level of Australia's exchange rate, somewhat less than full effect had been given in recent times to the impact of those fluctuations on the level of the Australian dollar than would have been the case if full effect had been given to the operation of the trade weighted basket. 
I made two statements on this subject, one a joint statement with my colleague the Minister for Finance and another during an interview with a well known Victorian newspaper. I indicated that the deficit of some $2,2 17m, as projected in the Budget of last August, would be exceeded. As I think the honourable gentleman will appreciate, it is not possible so many months in advance of 30 June to talk with relative precision about the final result. One must take into account shortfalls in expenditure which occur. In general terms I can inform the honourable gentleman that on the expenditure side there have been increases on account, I think, of most of the items that he mentioned. After the Budget specific decisions were taken by the Government in that area to relieve areas of need. I refer to the beef industry and the additional assistance in the area of aged persons' homes. I think all honourable gentlemen would agree that decisions of that nature were both desirable and economically responsible. It is true that so far there have been shortfalls in the area of pay-as-you-earn taxation refunds and also in some areas of customs duty. In the latter area the shortfall has been a result in part of a relatively greater amount of import replacement having occurred than was projected when the Budget was brought down in August. There will be a situation in which there will be a larger deficit but it is not in any sense a matter of concern. 
I point out that the financing of the Budget deficit is in a very comfortable situation. The level of non-bank takeup which, as the honourable gentleman will know, is the least inflationary method of financing a Budget deficit, has been extremely satisfactory and to date approximates about $ 1,200m which is some $300m to $350m greater than the level of non-bank takeup at a comparable stage last year. In no sense do the comments I have made or the alterations thus far to the projected deficit outcome represent an undermining or a defeat of the Government's strategy. The Government has reaffirmed the need for maximum expenditure restraint. It has demonstrably reduced inflation in this country to single digit figures and although it would have liked the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to go a good deal further and seize the opportunity of granting no increase at all in respect of the December quarter wage case, it nonetheless is a matter of relative satisfaction to the Government that 55 per cent indexation was awarded yesterday. It demonstrates that with persistence the Government's wages policy is achieving some comparative and sustainable success. 
I do not ascribe to the situation the inference of gloom that the honourable gentleman does. Whether a particular estimate made at the time of the Budget is, over the period of the full year, proved to be incorrect either slightly or to a substantial extent is not something that can be finally determined until the end of the financial year. I have already indicated in reply to the honourable member for Bonython that there have been variations which have been due, on the one side, to a series of specific Government decisions and, on the other side, to a shortfall in revenue. In part these were covered by some of the explanations I gave earlier. 
If the honourable gentleman is concerned- as I accept he and all other honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House are concerned- about the question of unemployment, I would entreat him and his colleagues inside the Labor movement throughout Australia to take a different attitude to the inter-relationship of wages policy to the levels of unemployment in this country. This Government remains very strongly of the belief that there is a direct link between the level of unemployment and the level of wages. It is a direct link about which we have persistently argued in our submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I think in comparative terms we have had rather more success  in recent  days than we have had on other occasions. 
I did see the report in this morning's edition of the Melbourne  Sun. 1  am having some inquiries made about the allegations contained in the first part of the report. Until I have a response to that inquiry I am unable to respond to any other part of the honourable member's question. 
In the last Budget the then Treasurer foreshadowed action by the Government - 
No. He announced action in respect of trusts but he foreshadowed action generally in respect of tax avoidance. This matter has been receiving very close attention from the Government and I do not think the honourable gentleman will have to wait long before he knows the extent of the consideration that it has received from the Government. 
From recollection, the question of a natural disaster insurance scheme was before a meeting of Premiers at a Premiers Conference sometime last year. As a consequence of consideration at that meeting, a working party comprising, I think, both Commonwealth and State officials, was established to explore the way in which such a scheme, involving both the Commonwealth and the States and, as the honourable gentleman has suggested, the insurance industry, could effectively be brought into existence. I shall obtain for the honourable gentleman an up-to-date report on the state of that consideration and let him know the results. 
-I did write to the Prime Minister putting a particular point of view substantially to the effect referred to in the statement by the Prime Minister yesterday. The Prime Minister has canvassed already in some detail the attitude of the Government regarding the proprieties of this matter and the need to have an observance of certain procedures. So far as communication with IBM Australia Ltd is concerned, to the best of my recollection- without checking my files- I have had no communication with IBM regarding this matter save and except that a copy of  Mr Moyes's  letter of, I think, 2 December, to the Prime Minister was either sent to me directly by  Mr Moyes  as a courtesy or, alternatively, forwarded to me by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet because of my interest in this matter as I had ministerial responsibility at that time for the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The commitment made in the policy speech was that the Commonwealth Government would explore with the States the establishment of a scheme whereby deposits with building societies could be insured in some manner. That commitment was reiterated in the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General at the opening of Parliament. I can inform the House that the Government has established already an interdepartmental committee comprising representatives of my Department, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Reserve Bank of Australia for the purpose of investigating and recommending the most appropriate method by which such a scheme might be introduced. This Committee has met already. Last week the Prime Minister, my colleague the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and I met representatives of permanent building societies throughout Australia and received their general views on this matter. I can tell the House that the Government believes that the most desirable way in which such a scheme might be established is one that is established in full co-operation with State governments- a scheme which has national application. 
For this reason, we attach particular significance to co-operation with State governments. The Prime Minister has written already to the State Premiers advising them of the establishment of the Commonwealth interdepartmental committee and inviting responses from State Premiers as to joint exploration of the best way of devising a scheme. Thus far the Government has received responses from two of the States and is hopeful that the other States will respond as soon as possible because the essence of a satisfactory outcome to this exercise, which the Government believes will be welcomed by the building society industry, is that which is the result of full and complete co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
I recall the reply that I gave to the honourable member for Bonython. The Government stated during the course of the election campaign, and has since stated, its belief that sustainable reductions in interest rates of the magnitude of 2 per cent in respect of the calendar year period of 1978 were feasible and in prospect. I think it should be borne in mind that there has already occurred a reduction of onehalf of 1 per cent in interest rates as they affect most home borrowers from building societies and banks throughout Australia. I should add that the reductions in building society interest rates up to the present have occurred in some 
States and they are in prospect, so I am informed, in other States. 
The Government has all along indicated that it wishes to see progress towards sustainable reductions in interest rates. These can be achieved only given continued success with other Government's policies including the Government's monetary policy and the Government's policies of expenditure restraint. In respect of the Government's policies of expenditure restraint, I say again what I said in reply to the honourable member for Bonython: Whilst it is anticipated that the Budget deficit for the current financial year will be larger than that projected at the time when the Budget was brought down, there are wholly understandable and wholly explainable reasons why this situation has come about. I repeat, for the benefit of those opposite who are trying to interject, that part of the reason why the Budget deficit for this current financial year will be somewhat higher is that the rate of progress that the Government has achieved in reducing the rate of inflation has run marginally ahead of the expectations that were present in the Government 's mind at the time when the Budget was brought down last August. 
-Dealing first with the latter part of the question, I can inform the honourable gentleman in most unequivocal terms that the Government has not decided to embark upon a credit squeeze. Any suggestion to that effect both misreads the existing situation and totally misunderstands Government policy. With reference to the first part of the question, I think it would be extremely undesirable if I, as Treasurer, took it upon myself to comment upon the merit or otherwise of individual communications between the many thousands of branches of banks throughout Australia and their customers. I think all Ministers would hold that view. A statement was made by the then Treasurer, the right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  I think in October last year in which he indicated the general attitude of the Government towards loans and bank facilities for small business. That remains the policy of the Government. It remains under very close attention and is monitored continually by the Government. The Government is anxious to ensure that effect is given to the spirit of that policy. If honourable members know of instances where this policy seems not to have been followed, I ask them to let me have details. I think the honourable member for Canberra will understand very clearly how undesirable it would be for me to express a view on the merits of a decision made by an individual bank as to whether it should grant a loan. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics is currently conducting a study for the year 1975-76 which will update the statistics published in  Foreign Control in Manufacturing IndustryStudy of Large Enterprise Groups,  1972-73 (5315-0, previously Reference No. 12.35). It is expected that results of the 1975-76 study will be published about July 1978. It is planned to conduct a study covering all manufacturing establishments for the year 1 977-78, the results of which would be published in 1980. A study of foreign control of life insurance business in 1976 has been completed and results are expected to be published later this month. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the twelve months to September 1977, the gross operating surplus of companies was 1 6.5 percent higher than in the preceding twelve months. 
There is no readily appropriate deflator for such a calculation, but the increase referred to in ( 1 ) was clearly larger than any measure of general price increases. 
-The House had not heard not only about the honourable member's duck but also about mine. I had not previously been aware of the suggestion that readers of that magazine were being encouraged to make contributions to that organisation. I do not wish to make any generally critical comments about that magazine. However, I can inform the honourable gentleman that it is my understanding that contributions made to that organisation would not be tax deductible. Further, there is no way that I would recommend to the Government that they be made tax deductible. 
-I am aware of the widespread use of what is called the Gorton scheme. I am not sure whether the honourable gentleman is correct in asserting that the majority of circumstances in which it has been used relate to farm families. My understanding is that its use has been widespread. I will examine the proposition that the honourable gentleman has put to me and try to indicate a definitive response on behalf of the Government as soon as possible. 
I take the opportunity afforded to me now to reply to the remarks made by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  about the operation of section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I do so not only because I appreciate the reasons for which the honourable member raised it but also because this matter has been the subject of queries by a number of other honourable members on both sides of the House. Section 26e of the Act has been in operation for a number of years, and in essence it requires that there shall be included in the assessable income of taxpayers the value to the taxpayer of all allowances or benefits granted in relation to his employment. As the honourable gentleman knows, that includes the rental value of accommodation provided in conjunction with employment. 
The first thing that ought to be understood, and understood clearly, is that strictly speaking, as with all other assessable income or allowances which are deemed to be income, it is the obligation of the taxpayer to include the value of the accommodation in question in his taxation return. Often where a large number of employees are grouped in a particular area and enjoy like benefits in terms of accommodation from the one employer, for practical purposes it is more expedient for the Commissioner of Taxation through a system of valuation to fix the rental value of the accommodation and to notify his determination of that rental value to the individual employees. However, I stress that in those circumstances the rental value determined by the Commissioner of Taxation need not be the final word on the subject because the employee, if he so elects, can take the matter to a board of review or ultimately to a court. In no way can the fixing of that rental value override the proper interpretation that ought to be given to the operation of the section. 
The other point that is worth mentioning in relation to this matter is that in response to representations made by other honourable members, including the honourable member for Herbert, I have been informed by the Commissioner of Taxation who, as the honourable member for Herbert well knows, is responsible for the administration of this legislation, that due allowance is made where appropriate for things such as a lack of choice available to the employee, onerous conditions attaching to his occupancy such as an obligation to be available for duty at irregular hours, and accommodation that is below the standard which would normally be expected or which is in uncongenial surroundings. Provision for these matters would be reflected in the determined value. If an employee is charged rent for accommodation provided, as is evidently the position with some school teachers, only the excess, if any, of the value of the premises over the rent paid is assessable. 
I do not want to weary the House with a detailed explanation of the operation of the section but I think that the threshold point ought to be understood: Although it is not income in the commonly understood sense, for the purposes of the Act it is a benefit which ought to be included by the taxpayer in his return. The practice of the Commissioner determining values is done as a matter of administrative convenience where there is a group of employees. It is fair to say that in many cases, including the particular case that has been brought to my attention, the period between successive determinations of value has been as much as 10 years, which indicates that the Commissioner is hardly aggressive in rapidly revaluing and therefore determining more economic market rentals. Without being confident that I am speaking in respect of every case, I suggest that the criteria that are now applied under the section make allowance for the differential between city and country - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. If no other Minister seeks the call the Treasurer may speak for another five minutes if he wishes. 
-I will not speak for another five minutes; only for another one minute. Whilst I appreciate very much the honourable member's concern, it is a valuation which is intended to take into account the matters that he has raised. I cannot categorically assure him that it takes into account all of them. It is intended to be a market rental determination, and the opportunity is available to the individual taxpayer to protest against the determination, just as it is available to the taxpayer to protest against any other determination. In any event it is still a matter of fact and of law under the Income Tax Assessment Act that the taxpayer has both the opportunity and the obligation to include in his assessment, of his own volition, the rental value that he determines to be the appropriate one for the premises. 
House adjourned at 11.7 p.m. 
-I am not aware - 
-The question calls for a detailed response and I shall take it on notice. 
-The rate of growth of the money supply registered thus far does not represent an abandonment of the projection- a projection rather than a target- of between 8 per cent and. 10 per cent stated in the Budget. Thus far the rate of growth of the money supply records a lower level than might be thought to be consistent with a full year's result of between 8 per cent and 10 per cent, basically for two reasons. The first reason is that we have been marginally more successful in reducing inflation than was expected at the time the Budget was brought down. In other words, inflation has fallen a little faster than was believed likely by the Government at that time. I would think that development would be wholly welcomed and not in any way questioned. Secondly, as the honourable gentleman will be aware, the reintroduction of quarterly company tax payments meant that in the month of November 1977 some $550m was withdrawn from the system, which otherwise would have been withdrawn during the seasonal rundown period to which the honourable gentleman referred. 
I think if we take those two factors into account they give a very significant explanation of why thus far the figures on the rate of growth of the money supply indicate the situation to which the honourable gentleman referred. It does not represent in any sense a tight money policy. The Prime Minister and I have indicated already that the run-down period will, as is customary, be very carefully monitored and managed by the Reserve Bank. The Government, as is also customary, is in regular contact with the Reserve Bank regarding the rundown. The Prime Minister and I have both indicated that the Reserve Bank has a considerable armoury of weapons available to it to facilitate the rundown. I do not really believe that it assists the economic situation generally or an understanding of some of these matters for the honourable gentleman to introduce references to speculation against the value of the Australian dollar. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised from information available to the Foreign Investment Review Board, that of the 20 principal mining companies in Australia with majority foreign ownership, seven have a majority of Australian citizens on their boards. A further three companies have boards on which Australian citizens have an equal number of positions with foreign nationals, with the remaining ten companies having a majority of foreign nationals on their boards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no such convention. The numerous alternative measures in common usage include the average price level for one year compared with the average price level in the preceding year, the price level in one quarter compared with the same quarter a year earlier, and the average price level in one six-monthly period compared with the preceding six months, expressed as an annual rate of change. For example, the 1976 OECD Survey of Australia included details of price changes using, at various points, all of these bases. Statement No. 2 attached to the 1977-78 Budget Speech contained a table showing half-yearly movements in a wide range of price indicators. The half-yearly movements are generally more informative when the rate of inflation differs significantly within a year, as has often been the case in recent years. 
For the second half of 1974 the consumer price index increased at an annual rate of 19.3 per cent, and the implicit price deflator of private final consumption expenditure rose at an annual rate of 18.5 per cent. As Table 2 in Statement No. 2 shows, most of the other indicators of price change registered annual rates of increase in excess of 20 per cent for that period. 
-I think all honourable gentlemen will be aware of movements in the value of the American dollar against other major currencies that have occurred not only over the past few days but also over a slightly longer period. I would hesitate to describe those movements as having the consequences ascribed by the honourable member on international monetary stability and trade. Of course, it is a matter of significance not only to Australia but also to the rest of the international trading community when movements of this order in the value of the American dollar against other major currencies occur. I have on a number of earlier occasions indicated to the House the attitude of the Government insofar as the management of the Australian exchange rate is concerned in relation to fluctuations in the value of the American dollar. 
I again draw the attention of the honourable gentleman to the statements that I have made on a number of occasions regarding the determination of the Government to make substantial additional overseas borrowings in support of the Australian dollar. I draw the honourable member's attention to the raising of a $US350m loan facilitated through the Deutsche Bank and announced the day before Easter, just several weeks ago. This loan raising in fact represented the largest ever fixed interest placement by a foreign government in the Eurodollar market. It indicated the extraordinarily high credit rating of Australia in international monetary markets. In the circumstances it was a conspicuous tribute to the reliability of Australia and the trust placed by overseas investors in the Australian economy and, indeed, in the policies being followed at present by the Government. 
I also draw the honourable gentleman's attention to a report in today's  Australian Financial Review  which indicated the prospects according to the United States Commerce Department, for United States capital investment in Australia during 1978. It will be apparent to the honourable gentleman from those comments that the Government naturally is keeping under close scrutiny the impact on the Australian economy of fluctuations in the American dollar. The question the honourable gentleman raised about providing forward cover against capital transactions is one of those matters that properly ought to be the subject of on-going consideration by the Government of exchange rate management. That on-going consideration is occurring and I can assure the honourable gentleman that that on-going consideration includes consideration of his proposition regarding forward cover. 
On a number of occasions, in response to questions and also through statement, I have provided to this House and to the community generally, a description and explanation of the current management of the Australian exchange rate. Frankly, I have nothing to add to those descriptions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The studies referred to by the honourable member have not yet been completed. The timing of any action on this matter will depend on a number of factors including those associated with the legislative position. 
-Of course there is a link between the size of the Government's deficit and movements in interest rates and interest rate policy generally. I do not in any sense deny that. The remarks that I made, I think in response to the honourable member for Bonython, regarding the projected size of this year's deficit and the comment I made that it was not a matter of concern, ought to be seen against the background of why this year's deficit will be somewhat larger than predicted at the time of the Budget last August. I gave certain explanations on that occasion, both on the expenditure and the revenue sides, as to why the deficit will be larger, and I think the House will be aware of them. 
I indicated also, and I think it is important in the context of that part of the Leader of the Opposition's question dealing with interest rates, to bear in mind that this year's deficit is being very comfortably financed. The non-bank takeup has been very satisfactory. I point out that during the course of the first few months of this year it has been possible for a commencement to be made on a lowering of interest rates. There has been a reduction of 0.5 per cent in interest rates in a number of areas, including lending levels for housing. It has been possible to achieve that reduction consistent with other policies. I do not suggest for a moment, as I made clear on an earlier occasion, that there is not a link between the size of deficits and interest rates. Of course there is. It is a question of degree. It is a question of seeing the extent to which it is possible to accommodate interest rate reductions within the size of deficits. I simply make the final point that when one is looking at the size of deficits one must see them in terms of the percentage of total government outlays that they represent and not only in terms of the actual money figure involved. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the giving of a guarantee, of up to $4.5 m, in respect of the repayment of the principal of a commercial borrowing of up to $9m for three years by Cooperative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Limited, CF&amp;G. The Government of Victoria will provide a similar guarantee of up to $4.5 m. Honourable members may recall that, on 10 March 1978, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premier of Victoria jointly announced that their respective Governments had agreed to guarantee repayment of a commercial borrowing by CF&amp;G on a 50/50 basis. The society has been in the hands of receivers and managers since 1975 and its principal remaining asset, the Brooklyn Abattoir, is in the process of being sold to Protean Holdings Limited for $ 10.25m, subject to the approval of the Supreme Court of Victoria and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies. With the aid of the proposed guarantees from the two Governments, the directors of CF&amp;G have asked the Court not to sanction the proposed sale to Protean. 
At the present time CF&amp;G is insolvent: Creditors for amounts in excess of $14m remain unpaid. Nevertheless, the co-operative is presently trading profitably and neither Government thought it desirable that the co-operative should be forced to go into liquidation. The guarantees from the Commonwealth and Victorian Governments would provide CF&amp;G with the opportunity to trade out of its past problems under the ownership of the existing shareholders. The Brooklyn meat works is one of the largest and most modern in Australia. The Government is concerned to ensure that it continues to operate in the overall interests of the industry on a profitable basis. CF&amp;G has arranged a borrowing of $9m for 3 years on satisfactory terms and conditions. The borrowing, together with other funds, will enable the creditors to be paid in full. 
The society will be required to enter into agreements with the Treasurer of the Commonwealth and the Treasurer of the State of Victoria and the lender with respect to the proposed borrowing, and the guarantees will be conditional upon approval of both Governments of a management restructuring plan to be submitted by the society. These requirements are designed to safeguard the interests of the Commonwealth and the Victorian Governments. To that end, there is a requirement in this Bill that officers of the Australian Public Service will have full access at all reasonable times to the financial accounts of the society when authorised in writing by the Commonwealth Minister for that purpose. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Commonwealth Banks Act to enable the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia to lend to all kinds of businesses. The present restrictions which confine its lending to the rural, tourism and industrial sectors will be removed. The amendments will enable the Commonwealth Development Bank to extend its lending to the establishment or development of undertakings in business sectors such as retailing, wholesaling, professional services, entertainment and the service industries generally. As at present, the bank will continue to be required to give emphasis to the provision of finance for small business undertakings. 
Honourable members will recall that these proposed changes were first announced on 13 October last year when the then Treasurer and the then Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  made a comprehensive statement on small business finance to Parliament. The Minister for Industry and Commerce and I also released a press statement concerning the proposed amendments on 28 February this year. In the October 1977 statement, the Ministers announced a series of measures designed to assist small business, including extending the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the provision of equity finance by the Development Bank. These aspects are under close examination and consultations are being undertaken with relevant financial institutions. It is expected that a further announcement will be made at a later stage. 
The Government has responded to the increasing concern in the business community about the adequacy of funds for small business growth and development. In May 1977 a task force was set up to investigate the question of finance for small business. A report was subsequently submitted to the Government. In its deliberations, the Government has been assisted considerably by the Government members' small business sub-committee chaired by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred).  This government recognises the vital part played by small businesses in our economy. Their contribution in terms of employment, growth, innovation and enterprise has by now been well documented. The widening of the charter of the Development Bank provided for by this Bill represents a further step in a series of initiatives by the Government to ensure that small businesses are assisted towards realising their full potential. 
It is expected that the Development Bank will be in a position to implement the expanded lending activities shortly after the legislation is enacted. As is the case under the Development Bank's present charter, prospective borrowers will need to establish, to the satisfaction of the bank, that the finance sought is not otherwise available on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions. In determining whether to provide finance, the Development Bank will continue to have regard primarily to the prospects of the operations becoming, or continuing to be, successful and will not necessarily have regard to the value of the relevant security. To what extent additional funds may be required for the Development Bank's entry into this wider field of operations cannot be determined at this stage, but the position will be closely watched. 
I now turn to the specific provisions of the Bill. The Development Bank's functions are set out in section 72 of the Act which, in brief, enables the Bank to provide finance for persons for the purposes of primary production or for the establishment or development of industrial and tourist undertakings. The amendments to section 72 will enable the Bank to provide finance for the establishment or development of business undertakings, by removing the present restriction which confines it to financing only industrial and tourist undertakings. Its function of lending for the purposes of primary production remains unchanged. The amendments to section 72 will also extend the Development Bank's role of providing advice and assistance to the full range of business undertakings that will be eligible to borrow from it. The government regards this measure to expand the functions of the Development Bank as a substantial element in its overall program for the encouragement of small businesses. I should also mention that I expect to introduce amendments to sections 84 and 1 1 1 of the Act during the Committee stages of the debate on this Bill. 
At present section 84 of the Act provides that, except with the consent of the Treasurer, the Development Bank shall not borrow a total of more than $4m from the Reserve Bank of Australia and shall not borrow moneys repayable in a currency other than Australian currency. The amendment that I am now foreshadowing will make all borrowings by the bank subject to the Treasurer's consent. This will bring the provision into line with the comparable, standard provision in other legislation with respect to statutory authorities. Section 1 1 1 limits the scope for borrowings by Commonwealth Banking Corporation officers from the Commonwealth Banks to loans for housing purposes and to loans from the Commonwealth Trading Bank where the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation is satisfied that special circumstances exist. The latter loans are subject to a limit of $1,500. The amendment that I will be introducing later will seek to increase that limit to $5,000. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act 1971, which subjects to pay-roll tax wages related to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, to raise the level of the general exemption from tax. Although the Bill does not draw distinctions between the two Territories, it is expected to have effect in practice only in respect of wages related to the Australian Capital Territory. The reason is that, under the program for the development of Northern Territory self-government as announced by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  on 14 September 1977, it is planned that the power to levy pay-roll tax on wages related to that Territory will be transferred to the proposed government of the Northern Territory with effect from 1 July 1978. 
The general exemption is to be raised from $48,000 to $60,000 per annum. It is proposed that the higher level will apply from 1 July 1978. The exemption will, as at present, be phased out by an amount of $2 for every $3 by which the annual wages payable by an employer exceed the maximum exemption level. The last increase in the exemption level applied from 1 January 1977 when the exemption was brought into line with the exemption allowable in New South Wales. That State has since increased its exemption level to $60,000. 
I think it is desirable to secure consistency between the exemption entitlements of employers in the Australian Capital Territory and employers in New South Wales. I am sure that the operators of small businesses in the Australian Capital Territory will welcome the change. The maximum deduction allowable in monthly returns will increase from $4,000 to $5,000 and will, in conformity with the rules for the phasing out of the maximum annual exemption, be phased out at the rate of $2 for every $3 by which the wages for the month exceed $5,000. No deduction will be allowable where the monthly pay-roll exceeds $12,500. From 1 July 1978 an employer who pays wages of $1,150 or less a week will not be required to register for pay-roll tax purposes. Explanations of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum which will be made available to honourable members shortly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I most certainly do adhere to the statement I made earlier this year rejecting the notion that this country was in any kind of economic recession. I also affirm the statements that I made. The honourable gentleman of course, as one would expect given his shadow ministerial responsibilities in Opposition, has selectively chosen some of the economic indicators. If he had read my speech to the  Australian Financial Review  luncheon he would have found that not only did I make the statement that he mentioned but also that I made an acknowledgment that there are certain indicators that are less than satisfactory. At no stage since in my present ministerial responsibilities have I denied that there are some adverse indicators so far as the Australian economy is concerned. 
If the honourable member looks at the progress which has been achieved in reducing our rate of inflation and if he looks below the surface of the December quarter national accounts- I am sure that the honourable gentleman has done that- he will find that they confirm a very strong growth both in government and private consumption. As somebody who has a better than average knowledge of statistics, he would know that one of the reasons the gross domestic product factor in the December national accounts was subdued was the very large stock run-down. When those accounts were released I acknowledged that they were disappointing. Of course they are disappointing, but one has to look below the surface. To ascribe to them a sort of economic debacle as the honourable gentleman tries to do is to misinform this House completely. Of course there are a number of unsatisfactory indicators. On the other hand there are a much greater number of very satisfactory indicators such as the recent statistics on computer sales which were released yesterday. 
The honourable gentleman is aware that some other statistics will be coming out today. I will not make any comment on them, for reasons which the honourable member will understand. I invite him to look at them, and I invite him to look again at the capital investment figures across the whole of the spectrum for the second half of last year. So what I said before on two occasions I say again: Although there are some unsatisfactory indicators suggestions from the 
Opposition and from other parts of the community that this country is in some kind of economic recession are absolute nonsense and counterproductive to our future economic interests. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill to amend the income tax law will introduce measures to counter tax avoidance and give effect to a number of Government policy initiatives that have already been announced. 
These policy initiatives include the new concession to allow shareholders a rebate of tax for share capital subscribed to companies engaged in off-shore petroleum exploration and development activities. The 1977-78 Budget decision to liberalise the income tax deductions for gifts of works of art and comparable property to public libraries, galleries and museums will also be given effect by the Bill. The measures against tax avoidance are wide-ranging and are an important step in our program to strike down tax avoidance arrangements. 
As a Government, we simply cannot accept a situation where the actions of a few can jeopardise the wellbeing of us all. Not only do these practices make the Government's basic task of economic management more difficult, but also they can seriously jeopardise our program of tax reform designed to reduce the overall burden of taxation. Furthermore, it is particularly unfair when, in many cases, the persons involved in these schemes are the ones best able financially to accept their tax liabilities. It would be idle to imagine that tax avoidance in all its forms will ever cease. There is a flourishing tax avoidance industry in all corners of the world and plenty of talent available to devise schemes of avoidance. It has long been recognised that it is reasonable for taxpayers to so organise their affairs as to minimise liability for taxation. However, the Government believes that some techniques of tax avoidance are so blatant, contrived and artificial as to go beyond the bounds of reasonableness. 
There may be no absolute community standards by which particular forms of tax avoidance may be judged. I would not pretend to be able to offer a complete definition. I do, however, assert that some of the schemes which have been practised, and are the subject of this Bill, are clearly at odds with the general welfare of the community. It does no credit to those concerned to be involved in a scheme where of $10,000 claimed as a deductible gift, just $120 is enjoyed by the charity concerned, with the promoter of the scheme benefiting to the extent of almost $ 1 ,400. Nor, I think, would it be regarded generally as reasonable tax planning for a group of people to contrive, through trading in and dividend stripping of shares, to transform what is undoubtedly a profit of $5,000 into a deductible loss, for tax purposes, of $970,000. Taxpayers and their advisers do have a responsibility as to the lengths they go in exercising legal means of minimising tax payments.  (Quorum formed) 
Against this general background, I turn now to the anti-avoidance amendments that are a feature of this Bill. The matters covered under this head are schemes involving the creation of tax losses through the issue and subsequent sale of bonus shares, abuse of the gift provisions, creation of artificial share trading losses, dividend stripping, artificial acquisition of 'primary producer' status for averaging purposes and steps to avoid tax on undistributed income and tax on dividends. 
Bonus shares 
The amendment relating to bonus shares has been made necessary by the legal interpretation applied in the well-known Curran case. The essential elements of the Curran schemes are that taxpayers who seek to be treated as share traders can artificially create a tax deductible loss which can then be offset against their normal taxable income. For example, a person may pay $ 1 90,000 for shares with a face value  of$ i  0,000 and, after accumulated profits attaching to those shares have been capitalised by the issue of bonus shares to a face value of $190,000, the total parcel of shares is sold for $ 1 95,000. Under a Curran scheme the person claims to have incurred a loss of $185,000 whilst, in commercial terms, a profit of $5,000 has in fact been made. These schemes can be used to create whatever loss is required by a taxpayer to eliminate tax liability completely. 
The Bill does not disturb the rules that an individual shareholder who is issued with nonredeemable bonus shares paid up out of capital profits is not taxed in respect of the receipt of those bonus shares, or that a resident company is not taxed in respect of any bonus share issued to it. The amendment proposed in the Bill will mean that, in calculating the taxable profit or loss on disposal of shares by a share trader, the only cost attributed to a bonus share, where the shareholder is not taxable in respect of its receipt, will be the part of the cost of the original shares that is fairly attributable to the bonus shares. 
I draw particular attention to one aspect of the amendment in relation to bonus shares, namely, that the amendment will apply to bonus shares allotted after the Budget date of 1 6 August 1 977. The Government has decided to adopt this application date because of the extreme gravity of the situation involving bonus share schemes. Precise quantification cannot be made, but all the indications available to the Government are that hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue would be lost if the amendment were confined to bonus shares allotted after today. Not only would many high income earners be freed from tax in 1977-78, but also a number would not pay tax for years into the future because of large carryforward losses they have sought to create by schemes of this kind. 
In deciding that this amendment should apply after 16 August 1977 the Government recognises that retrospectivity is involved. On this occasion we make no apology for acting retrospectively to protect the public revenue. Generally, the Government has supported the view that the rights of taxpayers under existing legislation should not be altered retrospectively. However, the Government believes that whilst it is generally the case that the public interest can best be served by not applying tax legislation retrospectively, on this occasion the public interest requires a departure from this general practice. The Government's decision reflects its view that the abuse represented by the Curran type schemes is so blatant and of such a magnitude that it constitutes a serious detriment to the general body of taxpayers. 
The Government also had in mind that it was doubtful whether any person entering into a Curran scheme in recent months could genuinely have believed that there was no risk that his or her enjoyment of the benefits of the scheme would remain totally immune from retrospective legislation. This is especially so in light of the clear warning against tax avoidance given in last year's Budget Speech. In fact, some promoters of these schemes have offered 'money-back guarantees' in the event of the schemes being retrospectively struck down. It is important to emphasise that the amendment will not be retrospective to earlier financial years. The effect is that losses generated by allotments of shares under Curran schemes from and after 17 August 1 977 will be denied deductibility against income earned during this and subsequent financial years. 
Gifts 
The abuses of the gift provisions against which this part of the Bill is directed all have the common feature that the donor seeking a deduction for a gift to one of the funds or institutions referred to in the gift provisions of the law does not, when the reality of the situation is laid bare, really make a gift of anything like the amount or value for which a deduction is claimed. Correspondingly, the charity does not enjoy anything like the full amount or value of the ostensible gift. Under one gift scheme the donor seeks a deduction for a $ 10,000 gift that is made to an institution, $ 1 ,500 of the amount coming out of his or her own funds and the balance of $8,500 being lent by the promoters of the scheme. The institution, pursuant to an overall arrangement, pays the promoters a procuration fee of 98.8 per cent of the gift, leaving it with $120 out of the $10,000. The procuration fee puts the promoters in funds not only for their $8,500 loan to the donor, but provides them with a substantial fee. In practical terms, the donor does not have to repay the $8,500 loan. 
In further schemes of the same kind the gift to the charity is a note or debenture which, despite the claim for a deduction of its face value, is rendered almost worthless by subsequent, prearranged, changes in its terms and conditions. The charity receives cash from the sale of the note or debenture at its reduced value, and the diminution in value accrues to the donor or his associates. Plainly, the Commissioner of Taxation is resisting claims through these shoddy schemes for deduction, made under the law as it stands. However, as the courts may find that the nominal rather than the real gift is deductible, the Government proposes to put the matter beyond doubt in relation to gifts made after today. I stress that the amendments will deny any deduction for a future gift only when made in tax avoidance circumstances of the broad kind to which I have just referred. Genuine gifts made in ordinary circumstances to the funds and institutions concerned will not be affected. 
A closely related exploitation of the gift provisions is also being dealt with in the Bill. This concerns practices whereby a donor gives a work of art, or money to buy a work of art, on the condition or understanding that the donor or a relative or other associate may have possession of the work. Generally, there will be no deduction for gifts of this kind made after today. However, if the gift is one that qualifies under the liberalised provisions to which I will refer later, a reduced deduction will be allowable. In such cases the deduction will reflect the full value of the work as discounted for the benefit that flow a from retaining possession and enjoyment of it. The Bill further provides that, where there is an arrangement that the donee will use a gift to acquire property from the donor or an associate, there will be no deduction. 
Share Trading Losses 
The Bill has the broad objective of preventing deduction of 'manufactured' or artificial losses from trading in shares, by enabling the taxable profit or loss to be calculated on the basis of the commercial realities of the transaction concerned. Honourable members will recall that amendments were made last year to counter avoidance schemes in which elections were lodged under section 36a of the Income Tax Assessment Act so as to create artificial share trading losses. The measures now brought before the Parliament supplement the earlier amendments. 
Schemes of this kind are very involved. They require a number of intricate and contrived steps. Under one scheme, a partnership of taxpayers buys shares to which there are attached very substantial undistributed profits in liquid form, usually cash in the bank. The partnership is a share trading one, which means that its taxable profits or losses from share trading are allocated to the partners and are reflected in their individual assessments. Although the shares that the partnership buys would be very valuable to it if they were purchased in a straight- forward manner, the partnership in fact pays only a nominal amount, as it is part of the pre-arranged plan that the company concerned will issue specialclass shares to an associate of the promoter from which the partnership bought the shares and will pay its previously undistributed profits as a dividend to that associate. For example, a partnership buys shares for $25,000 that are worth $ lm and the dividend that is paid on the special-class shares is $970,000. The partnership then sells the stripped shares for $30,000, making a commercial profit of $5,000. It claims, however, a loss of $970,000 on the basis that a provision of the law deems the partnership to have acquired the shares for their then basic value of $ 1 m. 
Another variant of the scheme relies on the general deduction provisions of the law. A share trading partnership buys shares for $ 1 m which it later sells for only $30,000, because the worth of the shares has been stripped away by payment of a dividend of $970,000 to another company. The dividend cannot effectively be taxed in the hands of the recipient company because that company is a straw company and has no realisable assets after the scheme is carried out. The partners claim for tax purposes to deduct the $970,000 loss but, and here is the point, they do not in reality have to bear the loss or any part of it. This is because the partnership has been lent money to acquire the shares under an arrangement whereby the loan is in fact not repaid. In the jargon of the trade, the loan is collapsible. Schemes of this kind have not been tested before the courts. I expect that this will happen in due course because the Commissioner of Taxation will be vigorously resisting them. However, the Government proposes to put the matter beyond doubt for relevant acquisitions of shares taking place after today. 
Dividend Stripping 
In this avoidance scheme a company buys shares in a company with accumulated profits; strips these profits by way of dividend and subsequently sells the stripped shares, thus recouping itself for the initial share purchase. In 1972 the law was amended to prevent a company from both deducting the apparent loss on sale of the shares and being allowed an intercorporate dividend rebate on the full amount of the dividend paid. Those amendments limited the rebate to the net amount of the dividend after offsetting the cost of the shares and any other deductions associated with the dividend. 
Dividend strippers have found a way around the 1972 amendments. While one company receives the stripping dividend, it is an associated company or trust that incurs the apparent loss. In these circumstances there is no basis in the present law for offsetting the cost of the shares against the rebatable dividends To overturn this variation of the scheme it is necessary to provide that, where a company receives a dividend in the course of a stripping scheme, and it is a part of the scheme that an associate takes the apparent loss on the sale of the shares, the company that receives the dividend is not to be allowed any rebate in respect of the dividend. This amendment will apply to dividends declared after today. 
Re-imbursement Dividends 
A private company is liable to tax on its undistributed profits if it does not pay sufficient dividends to its shareholders. In respect of business profits, a private company is allowed to retain 60 per cent of its profits after company tax, and is required to pay the balance as dividends to its shareholders if it is not to pay the undistributed profits tax. Under one current scheme of avoidance, the payment of dividends to shareholders is illusory. The company does pay or credit dividends to a shareholder but is not put out of funds by doing so. One reimbursement technique is for the shareholders concerned to put broadly equivalent funds into the company, for example, by subscribing for redeemable preference shares that, after payment of a one-and-for-all dividend, carry virtually no rights. The shareholder receiving the dividend is not taxed on it because the special class shares are sold at a loss which is offset against the dividend. 
Under another technique, dividends are credited to a shareholder but the amount is not actually paid to the shareholder but is used to pay up an almost worthless share or debenture. The shareholder in this scheme is an institution whose income is exempt from tax and a small fee is paid for its services. Dividends declared after today under schemes of this kind will not be taken into account for purposes of tax on undistributed income. 
Abuse of Averaging Provisions 
A decision of the High Court given at the end of last year has made it necessary to amend the law so that the averaging system applicable to primary producers is not available to people who have no real stake in a primary production business and have become a beneficiary in a primary production trust simply to gain the benefits of tax averaging. The averaging system is applicable to taxpayers who directly or as a beneficiary of a trust carry on a primary production business. The court case arose out of an avoidance scheme by which thousands of beneficiaries were each given a $1 share of income from a primary production trust. The Court held, in a test case, that one of these beneficiaries thereby qualified for tax averaging for his entire income. 
Plainly, that is not a situation in which averaging should apply. Our proposed amendment is confined in scope to the special provision applicable to beneficiaries in primary production trusts. If the beneficiary's share of income of a year is $1,040 or more, the law will apply as it does now. If, however, the beneficiary's share falls short of this figure, averaging will not apply unless the Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied that the beneficiary's interest was not acquired primarily for the purpose of attracting the averaging provisions. Beneficiaries in primary production trusts of the traditional kind will not be affected by the amendment. Where it is applicable in relation to avoidance schemes of the kind I have outlined, the amendment will apply in the determination of averaging entitlements in 1978-79 and, for people who enter into such schemes after today, in the current financial year. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, that completes my outline at this stage of the principal antiavoidance measures contained in this Bill. Those measures are not the sum total of the response that we intend to make to prevent tax avoidance practices. Other amendments are in course of drafting and will be introduced at the earliest practicable time. Let me now turn to the other measures contained in this Bill. 
Expenditure Pursuant to Franchise 
The Bill contains provisions to withdraw the deduction for capital expenditure on a revenueearning facility erected pursuant to a government or public authority franchise. 
Debate interrupted. 
The provision in question was enacted some years ago to cater for circumstances not commonly encountered. At the time, leaseholders were entitled to deductions for capital expenditure on leasehold improvements. It was therefore appropriate that where a taxpayer was granted a right by a government authority to construct and maintain an undertaking of public utility, and to earn revenue from it, the taxpayer could deduct over the life of the franchise the capital costs incurred in the project. However, the law was amended in 1964 to withdraw the deduction available to lessees for the cost of leasehold improvements. It is now anomalous that taxpayers who can arrange to be franchise holders can deduct costs not deductible to taxpayers who build on leasehold or freehold land. The deduction for franchise holders is being withdrawn in relation to capital expenditure on franchises granted after today. 
Shareholder Rebates 
On 24 August last year the Deputy Prime Minister announced in this House a number of decisions made by the Government after considering ways of assisting the development of gas fields on the North West Shelf. The decisions included the provision of three very important taxation concessions. Two of these, the general extension by two years of the 20 per cent phase of the investment allowance and the inclusion in allowable capital expenditure of the cost of natural gas liquefaction plant, have already been carried into legislation. 
The third concession is the shareholder rebate scheme. By this Bill, shareholders who, after 24 
August 1977, subscribe share capital to a company holding a registered interest in an offshore licence or permit, will be eligible for a tax rebate. The rebate is available only when the company lodges a declaration with the Commissioner of Taxation that the moneys are earmarked for expenditure on exploration or development of an off-shore petroleum field. A corollary of this will be that the company will forgo its own right to deductions for the expenditure under the petroleum mining provisions of the income tax law. The scheme therefore permits the transfer of tax allowances for eligible expenditure from a petroleum mining company to its shareholders. 
The Bill puts into effect the policy decision outlined in the earlier statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  The new scheme draws very much on the earlier concession under section 77d of the Income Tax Assessment Act under which shareholders were allowed deductions for capital subscribed to mining companies. However, experience with that concession led to the Government's decision to provide strengthened safeguards against exploitation of the new concession when no real contribution to exploration or development is made. 
Liberalisation of Gift Provisions 
It was announced in the last Budget Speech that there would be a liberalisation of the gift provisions of the income tax law as they apply to gifts of works of art and comparable property to public libraries, art galleries and museums. The Bill implements that undertaking effective from 1 January 1978, and for a trial period of three years.  (Quorum formed).  I am delighted that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  shows such a conspicuous interest in tax avoidance matters. At present, the deduction for gifts of property to specified funds and institutions is limited to property purchased by the donor within the preceding 12 months, and to the lesser of its current value and its cost to the donor. The Government considers that there should be some changes in these rules to encourage people owning significant works of art or other items of cultural property to donate them for public display. 
Details of the Government's policy are contained in a statement by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  on 30 December 1977. The essence of the trial scheme, however, is that a taxpayer will be eligible for a deduction for property that has been held for any length of time and, in general, the deduction will be an amount equal to the market value of the property. Claims for deductions will need to be supported by valuations from approved valuers and a committee established with the co-operation of the New South Wales and Victorian governments will approve valuers for this purpose. 
The Bill also introduces a deduction for gifts to the Australiana Fund. This Fund is set up to facilitate the making of gifts of cash and works of art, including furnishings, for the fitting out of Government House, Admiralty House, The Lodge and Kirribilli House. Gifts to this Fund will be allowed on the same extended basis as proposed for gifts to public libraries, art galleries and museums. I mention here that the Bill brings up to date the gift provisions as they apply to gifts to the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory national trusts. The Northern Territory body has been re-constituted and the Australian Capital Territory body has been made a separate entity, instead of being a branch of the New South Wales trust. The amendment means that gifts to the national trust of each State and internal Territory will be tax deductible. 
Isolated Children's Allowance 
Another change to be made by the Bill will benefit taxpayers who have dependent children for whom payments are made under the isolated children's education assistance scheme. In 1973 these payments were made exempt from tax in the hands of the recipients. However, they continued to constitute separate net income of the children for purposes of calculating entitlement to the zone allowance and other rebates. That can have the effect of reducing the rebates available to the parents of the children and the Bill provides that the allowances are not to be taken into account as from 1 July 1977. 
Vocational Training Scheme 
Payments under the former regular servicemen's vocational training scheme are also dealt with by the Bill. These payments are akin to payments under the National Employment and Training scheme which were made subject to income tax in 1975. Payments under the vocational training scheme are correspondingly being made taxable with effect from the scheme's commencement on 1 February 1978. 
Current Year Losses 
There is yet another area of avoidance that it has not been practicable to make the subject of proposals in this Bill but which is of such importance that the Government has decided to announce amendments effective as from today. The term current year losses is a convenient shorthand description of it. Honourable members will know that the law contains a number of highly complicated provisions developed over the years to counter equally complicated arrangements for trafficking in tax deductible losses incurred by companies in prior years. In essence, a company may not deduct against income of a year a business loss incurred in a prior year unless throughout both years either the same persons beneficially owned more than 50 per cent of shareholders' dividend, voting and capital rights, or the company carried on the same business after a disqualifying change in shareholdings as it carried on before the change. The essence of current schemes is that losses incurred by a company while under the ownership of one set of shareholders are sought to be offset against profits earned in the same year under another set of owners. 
The arrangements have two basic forms. In one type, a company that has in the early part of an income tax year traded unprofitably is sold to a new group of shareholders who in the second part of the year inject into the company income that is offset by the losses of the early part of the year. The other form is the reverse of this. A company that has traded profitably in the early part of a year is sold to another group which creates artificial losses. These losses are set against the income earned by the company in the early part of the year under the original proprietorship. Honourable members may have noticed heavy advertising in the Press of schemes of this kind. The principles governing deduction of prior-year losses being a settled part of the law, the Government sees no reason why the same principles should not be applied to govern the deduction of current year losses. We propose that the law be amended accordingly. 
The new provisions will work along the following lines: The existing provisions of the law for determining whether there has been a sufficient continuity of ownership will be applied. If there is a disqualifying change in ownership, the new provisions will not apply if the company satisfies the 'same business' test that now applies in respect of prior year losses. Where, however, the company fails both tests, its taxable income of the year will be calculated by treating the two parts of the income year as if they were separate years. Where these separate calculations show a taxable income in one part of the year and a net loss in the other, the amount of the loss will not be offset against the profit. The proposed legislation will apply the same principles where there is more than one disqualifying change in the course of the year. The proposed current year losses amendments will be applicable to all situations where a disqualifying change in ownership occurs after today. 
Technical Amendments 
The Bill also contains some other more technical amendments of a significant kind, notably those dealing with the transfer of mining capital expenditure deductions from companies to their shareholders, aspects of the anti-dividend stripping provisions and the averaging system for primary producers as it applies in the context of the new standard rate personal tax system. All the provisions of the Bill are explained in the usual explanatory memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members. Due to the complex technical nature of the legislation the Government does not intend to resume the debate on the Bill for at least a few weeks to allow adequate opportunity for comment on the technical aspects of the Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on distribution of earnings is not available on an annual basis before 1 974. In May of that year, and in each subsequent May, the Australian Bureau of Statistics has undertaken a Survey of Earnings and Hours of Employees covering all employees, full-time and part-time, including managerial staff, with the exception of: members of the defence forces; employees in agriculture; employees in private households; waterside workers employed on a casual basis; persons employed by private employers (other than hospitals) not subject to payroll tax; employees on workers' compensation. 
On the basis of the Survey data, the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Gold is valued at the average London gold price for the month, converted to Australian dollars at the market rate of exchange applying on the last day of the month. 
The value of Australia's gold reserves at the end of each month, since the change in the basis of valuation has been: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances in 1976-77 by the Department of the Treasury, including amounts expended by the Australian Government Actuary and Life Insurance Commissioner, the Insurance Commissioner, the Insurance Tribunal, the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the Australian Taxation Office and the Taxation Boards of Review, are set out below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable gentleman is aware, it is not customary to make available confidential advices to Ministers. I shall examine his request and inform him further if there are any reasons why that practice which has been invariably followed, to my understanding, should be departed from in this instance. 
I have seen some Press reports regarding this matter and I can inform the honourable gentleman on two counts: Firstly, I have not the faintest idea where these Press reports originated and there is no substance in fact for reports to that effect; secondly, I can assure him that the matter is not currently under consideration. 
-I have had the benefit of a closer examination of that piece of attractive produce from the honourable member's electorate. It is very attractive. I cannot give the House or the honourable member an assurance as to whether it was minted in Perth. If he informs me that it was, I have no reason to doubt the honourable gentleman's word. As to whether the company that the honourable gentleman named is obliged to pay tax on the profit from the sale of gold ingots, as the honourable gentleman would know the secrecy provisions of taxation legislation preclude me from having any knowledge of the particular affairs of individual taxpayers. But I can inform him that it is normal, when things in Australia are sold by people who engage in business to make money and profit, for that profit to be taxable. The other part of the honourable gentleman's question asked whether at this stage I can give a date for the minting of a gold coin. I inform the honourable gentleman that I have been in correspondence recently with the honourable member for Higgins who has displayed a keen interest in this matter. I hope that within the next few weeks I shall be able to give a more accurate indication than I have been able to give so far of when it may be possible to do what both those honourable gentlemen would like to be done. 
I do recall the statement made on, I think, 13 October. 
I do not remember that; I was in Europe. But I do recall the statement made by the former Treasurer on 13 October as part of a joint statement by him and the then Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton.  I can also inform the honourable gentleman that, as a result of that statement, the Reserve Bank of Australia did bring to the attention of the private trading banks the terms of that statement as being an explicit statement of the Government's approach to the provision of finance for small business. 
I am aware, not only from the remarks of the honourable member for Ballarat but also from the remarks of a number of other honourable members in this House, that in some cases, some branches of some banks may not be fully aware of the terms of the Reserve Bank's communication to the private trading banks. I think the honourable gentleman will appreciate that the responsibility of the Government and indeed the responsibility of the Reserve Bank has largely been acquitted, the Reserve Bank having communicatedI am informed it has done so- the terms of my predecessor's statement to the individual private trading banks. 
I can inform the honourable gentleman that what was said in that statement on 13 October still stands very much as an indication of the Government's policy towards small business finance, as is evidenced by the fact that a Bill to expand the activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank, which was foreshadowed in that statement, was introduced into this House last Friday. So I repeat, for the benefit of the honourable member for Ballarat and other honourable members who have shown a keen interest in small business, that the terms of that statement still stand. It is, of course, the hope of the Government that all branches of all private trading banks throughout Australia will be aware of the terms of the communication sent by the Reserve Bank to the head offices of the private trading banks. 
This matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  refers to the Government's budgetary policy and I assume that it refers to the Budget policy that was outlined by my predecessor in the Budget Speech last year. If the honourable member for Gellibrand is in doubt as to what that policy is and what the strategy behind that policy is, I will be only too happy to occupy the quarter of an hour allotted to me in this debate to remind the honourable member for Gellibrand precisely what is the economic strategy of the Government. I think the honourable member would be in the minority as far as an understanding of that strategy is concerned because I think most people in this House, certainly on the Government side, and a very significant majority of people in the Australian community understand very clearly what is the Government's economic strategy. Members of the Australian community demonstrated very dramatically last December that they thought the economic strategy of this Government which was outlined very clearly by my predecessor in the Budget Speech last year, was an immensely preferable economic strategy to that offered by the alternative government at that time. 
I welcome the question from the right honourable member for Lowe regarding this matter. It should be made plain to the House that the right honourable member for Lowe has publicly indicated in respect of one of the amendments embraced in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill that he disagrees with the decision taken by the Government. Let me make it plain at the outset of my answer to the question that the Government makes no apology for deciding to include in this Bill the retrospective striking down of the so-called Curran schemes. As I understand the situation, it is true that the Commissioner of Taxation has disallowed certain claims for losses generated under the so-called Curran schemes. The extent to which that has occurred and the reasons for which that has occurred are ultimately matters which lie within the administration of the Commissioner of Taxation. As the right honourable member would know the Commissioner of Taxation is vested under the Income Tax Assessment Act with authority to adminster the legislation. 
The right honourable gentleman makes the assumption- it is implied in his question-that the result of the disallowances made by the Commissioner will be successful because that is the only basis on which he could say that the particular loss to revenue which may be involved in respect of these schemes would not be large. I take the opportunity again to remind the House that the Government has decided that the dimension of the loss to revenue involved in these schemes, the character of the schemes and the fact that many people entered into these schemes in circumstances in which they could not honestly assert that the schemes might not be the subject of retrospective legislation mean that in the Government's view this particular scheme and the Government's decision regarding it, represent a special case. Estimates of the revenue involved have been given by people in the professions. The official advice to me from the Commissioner of Taxation is that the amount of revenue lost runs into hundreds of millions of dollars. 
The right honourable gentleman drew attention to the situation concerning the so-called Gorton-schemes. As he undoubtedly knows, the proposition which has been put to the Government in relation to those schemes is that the Government should alter the law retrospectively to the period of eight or nine years ago so as to relieve people who might ultimately, depending upon the result of proceedings which are currently before the High Court, be found to be liable for the payment of gift duty. As a matter of common equity, if the Government were to accede to that request it would be necessary for the Government likewise retrospectively to relieve and make refunds to people who had made gifts during the same period and who had paid gift duty on those gifts. The Government would be obliged in all common equity to refund the amount of that gift duty which had been paid during that period. The right honourable gentleman suggested that the law should take its course. I believe that the correct method of responding in relation to the Gorton schemes is to allow the law to take its course and for the current proceedings before the High Court to be determined. 
I am aware that in a number of cases there is the possibility of some hardship being involved. That is a matter at which the Government would be prepared to look closely and in relation to which it would listen to submissions that were made to it. Regrettable though the circumstances may be for some people involved in those particular schemes, the fact remains that if, in order to achieve some kind of equity in respect of a limited number of people, a retrospective relief of duty were to be made, it would be necessary in the interests of that same equity to refund duty which had been paid by other people who at least had the opportunity of entering into those schemes but who took the conscious decision not to do so and who, as a result, had to pay the amount of gift duty assessed on their gifts. 
in reply- Very briefly I would like to thank the Opposition for its expression of support for this legislation. I appreciate the comments that were made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  about the unfortunate history of this co-operative. I think one thing has to be said for the record, namely, that the performance of  Mr Smart,  the person who has been the subject of much comment in this debate, prior to I think 1974 when he was appointed managing director of the company, had not given rise to grounds of concern. I am advised that the Australian Industries Development Corporation at that time expressed the view that he should be so appointed. I appreciate that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  indicates that he agrees with me that that was the case. It is true that a lot of people were unaware of what was going on. That is a regrettable situation and I do not seek to repudiate some of the remarks that have been made on that subject. 
The Government has decided to intervene in the manner outlined in the legislation. Of course, it is ultimately for the Victorian Supreme Court to decide whether the sale to Protean (Holdings) Ltd goes ahead. That is a matter entirely for the court and I will say no more upon that subject. The Government has decided to intervene because it believes that this co-operative represented the bringing together of the aspirations of a large number of people in a significant rural area of Australia. This is an attempt by the Government to respond to their aspirations. It was initially a very bold experiment by those people. It is very easy for people to pick off an exercise such as is being undertaken by the Government and criticise it on certain grounds and I suppose that some of those criticisms can be effectively made. However, the fact remains that to the large number of people concerned in this part of Australia- I understand that there were 10,000 people involved and this is extremely large by any standards for co-operatives in Australia- the establishment of the Cooperative represented something of a new era for their industry. For the first time they had their own abattoirs and for the first time they felt that they had a very effective and direct stake in controlling the fortunes of their industry. 
To them certainly and, I believe, to a large number of Australians it would be a sad thing if that enterprise which represented their aspirations were to pass out of their hands not because there were not some real prospects of the enterprise being successful from the trading point of view but because of some very unfortunate events which are alleged to have occurred and which have been canvassed during the course of this debate. I appreciate very much what the honourable member for Gellibrand said about the need for the Commonwealth Government to keep close watch because of the commitment of the Commonwealth in terms of the guarantee given in respect of the activities and management of the Co-operative. The conditions of guarantee which are contained in clause 5 of the Bill enshrine the concern of the Commonwealth in this regard. I conclude by saying that the Government is pleased to be cooperating with the Victorian Government in jointly guaranteeing the loan. I thank the House for the expressions of support which the legislation has received. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Briefly, in response, I cannot disagree with the reasons behind the proposed amendments but for a couple of reasons which I shall outline the Government is unable to accept them. There is the initial point that one of the proposed amendments is perhaps technically at fault. It may be that before the money is fully repaid the Commonwealth's liability is removed because it is possible that if the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd gets into a healthier financial position the Commonwealth guarantee can be discharged. I think the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  understands that the presence of a person from the 
Commonwealth on the board of directors after such time as the Commonwealth has ceased to have any contingent liability by virtue of the guarantee would necessarily be an arguable proposition. I also suggest that the alteration of the articles of the society brings in the question of whether alterations of that nature accord with the relevant State legislation, because the body in question is registered under the laws of the State of Victoria. I do not know that this Parliament, at very short notice, should be inserting an amendment of that order. 
I do not agree with the honourable member for Gellibrand and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  that the provisions of clause 5 are inadequate. The provisions of clause 5 specify, in sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c), a number of conditions which must be met and sub-clause (d) provides that such other conditions as the Treasurer thinks necessary must be fulfilled. I am advised that the board of the Co-operative is being restructured in such a way that it will not be lacking in commercial expertise. As I said at the outset, whilst I cannot dissent from the motives behind what the Opposition has said or what prompted the Opposition to promote this amendment, the Government sees some technical and procedural difficulties in the amendment and in any event believes that the concerns of the Opposition, which the Government substantially shares, are fully met by the provisions of clause 5. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Willis')  be agreed to. 
The Government does not completely disagree with the expressions of concern that have come from the Opposition about the management of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd and the circumstances surrounding it, but it cannot accept the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  for the very simple reason that he is asking this Parliament to double guess a decision of the Victorian Parliament regarding the exercise of powers within the province of the Victorian Government. I do not think that any Federal parliament in a Federation ought to lend itself to that sort of practice. 
-He may well be. One should look at the merits of this situation. I am informed that there was a debate in the Victorian Parliament on 8 March regarding this matter. On that occasion the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament called for a full-scale public inquiry to be established. I put it to the Opposition in this place that that is the right forum wherein to determine whether there should be an inquiry under Victorian legislation into a body which operates under that legislation in respect of conduct which is covered by Victorian law. In my view it is not the business of this Parliament to double guess that decision of the Victorian Government. In fairness to the Victorian Government, I should state that I understand that on that occasion the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  said that the Victorian Government was not opposed to a public inquiry in principle but thought that at that time it was inappropriate for a number of reasons. One of the reasons that he mentioned was that the Victorian company fraud squad, as the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out earlier in the debate, had been already inquiring into the reasons for the difficulties being faced by CF and G. Also there was an understandable concern as to whether the conduct of the public inquiry at that time might prejudice some of the commercial considerations which were under way at that time regarding the future of the company. As I am sure the honourable member for Gellibrand is also aware, there are proceedings in the Victorian Supreme Court, which were initiated by the receiver against the former managing director of the company, to recover some $2m in a civil suit. 
In those circumstances, I do not think the decision of the Victorian Government as to whether there was to be a public inquiry was wholly unreasonable. I think the decision of the Victorian Government on that occasion was a reasonable one. Frankly, if the situation is reached where it is respected that in a federal system of government some things generally belong to the States and others belong to the Federal Government, it really is not conducive to the proper operation of that system to have one or other of the parliaments double-guessing the other. 
-The honourable member for Gellibrand interjects that all he wants it to be is a condition of the guarantee. But the only way in which it could become a condition of the guarantee would be for the Victorian Government to reverse its previously stated position on this matter. Quite apart from whether that might involve some additional delay in relation to the matter which could possibly prejudice the speedy dispatch of the proceedings before the Victorian Supreme Court, we would still be faced with the situation of the honourable member for Gellibrand asking this Parliament to use its authority in one area to exercise leverage to bring about a change of mind by a State government in another area, which is normally and quite properly within the province of the State Government. I think it is a bad principle. I say that without disagreeing with some of the strictures about what may have occurred that have been made by the honourable member for Gellibrand, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  during the course of this debate. Frankly, I believe that there are matters which are within the competence of the Victorian Parliament to decide. If indeed the Victorian Government made a mistake on that occasion, the remedy lies, frankly, if one puts it to the extreme, with the electors of Victoria and with the Victorian Parliament itself. If the situation is reached where the powers of this Parliament and the capacity of this Parliament to do certain things are to be used as leverage to bring about changes in areas in relation to which other parliaments have authority, I think we will have a very bad principle. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Labor Government budgeted for deficits of $687m in 1973-74, $570m in 1974-75 and $2,798m in 1975- 76. The actual outcomes were deficits of $293m, $2, 567m and $3, 585m respectively. 
I refer the honourable member to the following passage from page 121 of Statement No 5 attached to the 1976- 77 Budget Speech and relating to the mid-year outlook for the 1975-76 deficit: 
It became apparent soon after the Budget was brought down that the deficit for the year would be considerably greater than that budgeted for. The most important contributing factor here was the likelihood that the increase in average weekly earnings would fall well short of the 22 per cent assumed for purposes of estimating pay-as-you-earn income tax receipts from this source. 
On the outlays side too, though to a lesser extent, there were indications that expenditures on some activities would exceed the Budget estimates and increase the likely deficit. In particular, expenditure on unemployment benefits was running at much higher levels than had been allowed for in the estimates. 
Against this background the outlook by mid-year was for an overall deficit of $4,500m or higher. 
The fact that this outcome did not eventuate was due partly to the fact that company tax and other individuals (non-PAYE) income tax receipts turned out to be higher than had been estimated but, more particularly, to the immediate and successive steps taken by the incoming Government to restrain growth in outlays 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table gives details of foreign loans raised by the Australian Government since 10 December 1975 and includes (a) rates of interest and (b) terms of repayment for each of the loans. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table provides details of foreign loans raised by Australian Government statutory bodies since 10 December 1975. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In keeping with the practice of previous Treasurers, from both sides of this House, I am not prepared to supply the honourable member with the forecasts he has requested. The Government last provided a detailed assessment of the economic outlook in Statement No. 2 attached to the 1977-78 Budget Speech. In that regard, I remind the honourable member of the statement by the Prime Minister, on 7 November last, pointing to the prospect of more favourable inflation and growth performance than had been foreshadowed in the Budget paper. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is associated with the Gift Duty Assessment Amendment Bill 1978 that I have just introduced. It proposes an amendment of the Gift Duty Act 1941 to provide that gift duty will not be payable in respect of any gift made by a person or a company on or after 1 July 1979. The Bill will provide also that such exempt gifts will not be taken into account in arriving at the rate of duty payable on dutiable gifts made before 1 July 1979.I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is associated with the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill 1978 that I have just introduced. It proposes an amendment of the Estate Duty Act 1914 to provide that estate duty will not be payable in respect of estates of people who die on or after 1 July 1979.I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-The question asked by the Leader of the Opposition is based upon the charge that the present current trade account situation of Australia is the result of the Government 's budget strategy. I do not accept that charge and would like firmly to repudiate it. This Government, since it took office, has believed that the long-term solution to Australia's international competitiveness- which of course, is ultimately what the trade account and the surplus of exports over imports is all about- was very severely reduced during the period in which our domestic cost pressures were such that we literally priced our country out of world markets. If anybody believes that there can be a long-term solution- leading to the desirable balance that ought to exist between exports from Australia and imports into Australia- which ignores the absolute essentiality of Australian industry remaining competitive so far as its cost structure is concerned, that person has no understanding of either the reasons which cause difficulties in this area or, indeed, what the long-term solution to those difficulties is. 
Whilst I have responsibility for the Income Tax Assessment Act, the policy responsibility primarily involved in the honourable gentleman's question is now within the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs. I shall discuss with the Minister for Home Affairs whether the report to which the honourable gentleman referred should be tabled and whether the Government should have gone further with the provisions regarding gifts. I am not immediately aware of the exchanges that occurred between one of my colleagues and the honourable gentleman last year but, as the result of the honourable gentleman's question, I shall better inform myself on that. 
I must of course make the general comment that as the honourable gentleman will be aware and as all honourable gentlemen will be aware, the request and submissions which are made to government regarding the gift provisions of the income tax legislation are very numerous. Given the responsibilities government has regarding revenue in this area, it is only in limited cases that it is responsible for government to accede to such requests. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill to amend the Estate Duty Assessment Act is the first of four associated Bills necessary to implement the Government's undertaking to abolish estate duty and gift duty. Honourable members will know that, in a Press release on 18 January 1978,I outlined key points of legislation to give effect to the undertaking, first given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech on 2 1 November 1977. Since then, the Government has decided that the exemptions initially available should extend also to property passing between grandparents and grandchildren. This extension both obviates some anomalous situations and gives directly an exemption that otherwise could have been obtained by the making of successive gifts and bequests. 
The Government's decisions mean that no estate duty will be payable by the estate of a person dying on or after 21 November 1977 in respect of property passing to the surviving spouse, a child, a grandchild, a parent or a grandparent of the deceased person, and no gift duty will be payable on property given by a person on or after that date to relatives within those classes. Estate duty is to be abolished in relation to all property in the estates of persons who die on or after 1 July 1979 and, similarly, gift duty will not apply in respect of any gifts of property made on or after that date. 
This Bill, in conjunction with the Estate Duty Amendment Bill that I will be introducing shortly, will give effect to these proposals so far as they relate to estate duty. In setting a firm and relatively early date for the abolition of estate duty, the Bills achieve what has been an important objective of the Government parties for many years. 
I am sure that a large section of the community will be delighted to see the end of this impost, which for a long time has been causing serious problems in relation to family arrangements, particularly on the death of a member of a family conducting a small business. Because of the intention of the Government to exempt from duty any property passing to the widow or widower of a deceased person, the existing provision that allows a deduction of up to $50,000 for property so passing is superfluous and will be repealed. Requirements for the lodgment of estate duty returns are to be changed to reflect the ultimate abolition of estate duty and the interim family exemption proposals. 
As well as the measures directly related to the implementation of the Government's undertaking, the Bill proposes some other amendments. Exemptions are to be provided for property passing to the National Trust of Australia (Northern Territory) from the estates of persons dying on or after 16 November 1976 and to the National Trust of Australia (Australian Capital Territory) from the estates of persons dying on or after 20 December 1976. The amendment will place those two bodies, from the dates on which they were constituted in their present forms, on an equal footing for estate duty purposes with the Australian Council of National Trusts and State national trust organisations. 
An additional power to amend estate duty assessments is to be provided so that, in circumstances where this might not otherwise be permissible, deductions allowed in respect of State probate or succession duties may be adjustedup or down to reflect any subsequent variations in liabilities for those duties. The additional power will facilitate the abandonment of cumbersome administrative procedures that had to be instituted following a High Court decision which indicates that the Commissioner does not always have power to amend assessments for that purpose. The administrative procedures increase the work of the Taxation Office and are a source of inconvenience to the administrators of estates. 
The additional power of amendment will not, of itself, authorise the amendment of an assessment made before this Bill receives the royal assent so as to increase a liability for duty and it will not, of itself, authorise the amendment of an assessment after the expiration of three years from the date on which the duty became due and payable under the assessment. Explanations of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum that will be made available shortly to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In the course of my speech when introducing the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill, I outlined proposals concerning legislation to implement the Government's policy commitment to abolish estate duty and gift duty. This Bill will amend the Gift Duty Assessment Act 1 94 1 . In conjunction with the Gift Duty Amendment Bill 1 978 that I will introduce shortly, it will give effect to the proposals so far as they relate to gift duty. One effect of the proposed amendments will be that gift dutywill not be payable in respect of gifts made on or after 2 1 November 1977 to the extent that they are for the benefit of the spouse, a child, a grandchild, a parent or a grandparent of the donor. The other important effect will be that gift duty will not be payable in respect of any gift made on or after 1 July 1979. 
By reason of an existing provision in the Gift Duty Assessment Act and a provision in the Gift Duty Amendment Bill 1978, the gifts to be so exempted from duty will not be aggregated with other gifts made by the same donor to arrive at the rate of duty payable on dutiable gifts. It will not be necessary for returns to be lodged in respect of the gifts that are to be exempted. Explanations of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum that will be made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The honourable member is referred to the Prime Minister's answer to question No.  3- Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 966. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l),(2),(3)and(4) 
The honourable gentleman has asked whether the Treasury as such has made an in depth analysis of the short term and long term economic significance of uranium mining. I will find out whether I can give to the honourable gentleman after Question Time a fuller answer than I am about to give. I can assure him that over a considerable period of time a number of government departments, including the Treasury and the Department of Trade and Resources, as it now is, and its predecessor departments, have been involved in an on-going fashion in analysing the economic implications to Australia of the development and sensible exploitation of our uranium reserves. I am sure that the honourable gentleman and other members of the House are aware of the number of projections that have been made in relation to the economic potential of Australia's uranium reserves. I shall make inquiries whether a more precise study of the kind referred to by the honourable member has been undertaken, and I shall advise him of my findings. I think the customary practice, of which the honourable member would be aware from his previous ministerial experience, is that a large number of the advisings of this character is properly confidential to government. In any event, I shall make further inquiries for him and let him know. 
-by leave- I wish to provide the House with some information regarding a matter arising from my second reading speech on the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1978. I think it is proper that I provide the House with this information. Since the House last met, and as a result of an inquiry that I made of the Australian Taxation Office, my attention has been drawn to the contents of a letter written in September of last year by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  dealing with matters relating to the retrospectivity of tax legislation. I believe that 1 should draw its contents to the attention of the House by tabling it, as there is a possibility that some people may see its contents as in some fashion qualifying the paragraph on page 5 of my second reading speech. 
In tabling the letter, I should make it very clear that I was not aware of it at the time of the preparation and introduction of the legislation. 1 should also make it clear that if I had been aware of it, it would not have altered my decision or the Government's decision regarding this matter. I take this opportunity to reiterate the terms of the Government's decision, both in respect of the general provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill and the section of that Bill which has attracted some comment and some controversy in recent weeks, that is, the decision of the Government to apply retrospectively the provisions striking down the so-called Curran schemes from 16 August 1977. 
I believe that this letter was written in the context of the general approach taken by the Government, that is, that it is undesirable to have retrospective legislation. As I have said on a number of occasions, the main basis of the Government's decision in this area is that having put into balance the two competing principles of non-retrospectivity and the equity of the tax system, the Government has decided that on this occasion the latter of those two principles must be given greater weight. For that reason the Government has firmly decided to proceed with this legislation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Three officers from the Treasury, including one who was seconded to the Meeting Secretariat for the duration of the Conference, travelled from Canberra to Sydney to attend the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. 
No officers from instrumentalities associated with my portfolio undertook travel away from their headquarters in relation to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meering. 
and (3) Information in respect of the officer seconded to the Secretariat is included in the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 385. The total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to the other two officers from the Treasury was $620.65, including $ 1 24.40 for travel. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Austraiian Statistician has not made any analyses of price movements reflected in the consumer price index which would enable parts (a), (d) and (e) of the question to be answered. The quantitative estimation of contributions of various causes to aggregative price change is necessarily dependent on a number of assumptions and assessments which are not generally regarded as part of the Statistician's function. 
However, with regard to part (b) of the question, the Statistician has estimated that changes in prices of petrol have contributed 0.48 per cent of the total movement of 9.3 per cent in the All Groups CPI (for the weighted average of six State capital cities) between December quarter 1976 and December quarter 1977. Of this, 0.32 per cent occurred in December quarter 1977. These figures relate only to the direct effects of changes in petrol prices and do not include estimates of any secondary effects (such as higher freight costs) that might occur in prices of other items in the CPI. 
With regard to pan (c) of the question, the Statistician has not made estimates of the effects of devaluation on the CPI. However, in order to assist recent national wage cases, he has made estimates of the effect on the CPI of changes in the prices of wholly or substantially imported goods. The estimated effects between December quarter 1976 and December quarter 1977 amounted to 1.24 per cent out of the total increase in the CPI of 9.3 per cent. It must be emphasised that an estimate of the effects of changes in prices of imported goods is not the same thing as an estimate of the effects of changes in exchange rates. For example, it does not take account of effects of changes in prices of imported raw materials or changes in prices of locally produced goods which are competitive with imported goods. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following Financial Corporations Act Advisory Committee meetings have been held since 31 March 1977: 
Permanent Building Societies Committee, 20 April 1977, 23 August 1977, and 10 March 1978; Money Market Corporations Committee, 5 May 1977, 9 September 1977, and 18 April 1978; Pastoral Finance Companies Committee, 7 October 1977; Credit Co-operatives Committee, 13 September 1977; Finance Companies and General Financiers Committee, 4 May 1977, and 20 September 1977; Authorised Money Market Dealers Committee, 18 April 1977, and 27 September 1977; Retailers Committee, 13 October 1977. 
The Government did not consider it appropriate to proclaim Part IV of the Financial Corporations Act specifically to deal with the difficulties experienced by some Queensland building societies last year because, as Ministers of this Government have previously stated  (Hansard,  18 March 1976, page 772; 6 April 1976, page 1338; 18 October 1977, page 2063; and 26 October 1977, pages 2391, 2392, 2395 and 2396), the Act is not designed for such purposes. 
The Government has said that it plans to implement a deposits insurance scheme to strengthen permanent building societies and protect depositors. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) It has been the practice of successive governments not to authorise the expenditure of time and money involved in answering questions, such as this, which seek generalised information on interdepartmental committees. I do not intend to depart from that practice. However, if the honourable member wishes to seek information concerning any particular interdepartmental committee, I shall be happy to see if he can be provided with the necessary information. 
Ratification of the International Convention on Safe Containers  (Question No. 795) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) One condition of eligibility for the sales tax exemption provided under Exemption Item 1 35a of the sales tax law is that the exempt vehicle be used for transport to and from a place of gainful employment. 
The Item was introduced to encourage and enable persons in respect of whom the Director-General of Social Security has certified that they have lost the use of one or both legs to such an extent as to be permanently unable to use public transport, to enter or remain in the workforce. 
Further widening of access to the concession would raise issues of social welfare policy and, in so doing, prompt the question whether the sales tax law is the proper channel for providing social welfare benefits. For example, recourse to the sales tax law, even in its present form, effectively debars from access to the benefit persons who can afford only a second-hand vehicle or no vehicle at all. 
The Government has had these issues under study for some time. There is no easy or simple answer to them, expecially in a time of severe budgetary constraint. However, they will continue to be kept under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report by the interdepartmental committee was one of the factors taken into account by the Government. 
There would be serious practical difficulties in so doing. These were referred to by the Minister for Home Affairs in the House on 1 3 April 1 978  (Hansard,  page 1 448 ). 
By longstanding practice, reports of interdepartmental committees are not made public. 
Not applicable. 
-I inform the House, as it would probably be aware, that in October of last year there was agreement between the Prime Minister and the six Premiers that an examination be made to determine whether the rules governing infrastructure financing could be made more flexible. As a consequence of that agreement a group of Commonwealth and State officials met. With the exception of one matter relating to voting arrangements, there was unanimous agreement between those officials regarding a more flexible arrangement for infrastructure finance borrowings which would give to the States greater scope and greater flexibility. In March of this year the Prime Minister wrote to the six Premiers indicating that the Commonwealth would be prepared to support that report before the Loan Council and that in respect of voting arrangements the Commonwealth believed that, consistent with its national economic responsibilities, any proposals under the new guidelines would need to be approved by a simple majority, including the Commonwealth. 
As I think some honourable gentlemen are aware, some Premiers have balked at the suggestion that the Commonwealth should be part of the simple majority. Whilst the Commonwealth is prepared to talk about the voting arrangements with the States at some future meeting, it believes that its responsibilities for national economic management can be discharged effectively only if the voting arrangements outlined by the Prime Minister are adhered to. The really important aspect of these new guidelines is that the greater flexibility provided in them be taken advantage of by the States in terms of putting proposals to the Loan Council. 
One State in particular- that is, South Australiahas already indicated through its Premier a particular proposal. I have suggested to the South Australian Premier that that proposal be particularised as quickly as possible. I think it is important that the attitude of the Commonwealth towards voting arrangements for loan approvals be made quite clear because, particularly in the light of some statements made by the New South Wales Premier yesterday prior to his departure overseas, the view may be developing that in some way the general arrangements that have prevailed in relation to overseas borrowings by the Commonwealth in the past will be altered; they will not. We believe that national economic responsibilities are involved and that the type of voting arrangements that we have proposed for the new infrastructure guidelines take account of the needs of the States but equally take account of the legitimate right of the Commonwealth effectively to discharge its national economic responsibilities. 
The honourable member has asked a most detailed question regarding an area in which I know he has taken a very conscientious and genuine interest over a period of years. I treat the question seriously. I shall have examined the proposals that the honourable gentleman makes. At this stage I cannot indicate even a tentative response as to what the Government's attitude is. I should like to make two general observations; first, that the circumstances surrounding the going into liquidation of VIP Insurance did cause the Government considerable concern. As the honourable member knows, a provisional liquidator has been appointed by the New South Wales Supreme Court and certain interim arrangements covering policy holders of 
VIP Insurance were made speedily by the provisional liquidator. Of course, investigations regarding possible breaches of New South Wales law are being pursued by the appropriate New South Wales authorities, in particular by a special investigator who has been appointed under the New South Wales Companies Act. 
I make no comment at this stage regarding the conduct of the managing director of the company. Inclusive offences and so forth have not been established and I refrain from making a qualitative comment about the behaviour of that particular gentleman. I make two final remarks. Naturally, a happening of this nature ought to cause any government to look again at the legislative procedures which govern an industry. But in so doing, I think it has to be borne in mind that there are certain things from which no amount of legislation can protect the community. We cannot legislate to make people more commercially competent. We cannot legislate to make people individually more honest. What we can do is to provide a proper level of protection consistent with the need not to over-burden the honest and competent sections of an industry with unnecessary regulation. 
I conclude by saying that to my knowledge, from advice I have received, this is the first occasion on which a liquidation has occurred in an insurance company since the operation of the 1973 legislation. I want to make it very clear that in the Government's view this particular occurrence does not in any way represent a general instability or general difficulty in the insurance industry throughout Australia. I regard that industry as extremely competent, extremely stable and extremely reliable. I do not think it is proper to infer from this occurrence that there is a general state of difficulty or malaise in the entire industry. 
-As to the first part of the question, I will find out, but I point out to the honourable gentleman that I am not responsible, nor is the Federal Government, in this respect. The waiting period for loans is determined by permanent building societies in New South Wales. As the honourable gentleman would be aware, so far as the general flow of funds into building societies and other financial institutions is concerned, we are currently in the seasonal rundown period. It is normal at this time of the year for there to be a greater degree of tightness than exists at other times of the year. I think it is fair to say that most observers of the rundown period would agree that the market is handling the rundown without undue strain and that the flow of funds, whilst naturally less at this time of the year than at other times of the year, has not been unduly constrained. The Government is keeping a close eye on the comparative flow of funds into the building societies, banks, and the Uke, and will continue to keep that monitoring under attention. I do not believe that the general level of lending figures supports the charge implicit in the honourable gentleman's question, that is, that the liquidity position of building societies is more strained than it ought to be. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 to provide for the following: Firstly, the States tax sharing entitlements for 1977-78 to be $4,336. lm; secondly, the States' tax sharing entitlements for future years to be 39.87 per cent of the preceding year's net personal income tax collections by the Commonwealth; and thirdly, periodic reviews of the per capita relativities between the States in their tax sharing entitlements. The effect of this Bill, together with the Bill to amend the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 which we propose should be considered cognately, will be to put into effect arrangements agreed with the Premiers at the July 1977 and October 1977 Premiers Conferences. 
This Bill represents a further development in the Government's federalism policy.  Major objectives  of that policy are to give the States and local government greater independence and flexibility to determine their expenditure priorities together with a concomitant increase in their financial capacity and flexibility. With those objectives in mind, the Government, through the income tax sharing arrangements, has emphasised the provision of 'untied' funds to the States and local government who are free to spend them as they see fit in the light of their own preferences and priorities. The benefits of this approach can be gauged by the increase in untied funds flowing to the States and local government over the last two years. As is proper in a federal system, the States have been able to introduce Budgets giving effect to their own priorities including the implementation of a number of tax concessions. 
Under stage 1 of the income tax sharing arrangements, as they presently stand, the States receive a specified share of Commonwealth net personal income tax collections. That arrangement is a central element in the Government's federalism policy which is aimed at restoring a proper distribution of powers and responsibilities between the three spheres of governmentCommonwealth, State and local. The States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 presently provides for 33.6 per cent of the current year's net personal income tax collections to be shared between the States on a weighted per capita basis. In 1976-77, the first year of operation of tax sharing, some difficulties arose from fluctuations in the estimates of the tax sharing entitlements. I add that these difficulties stemmed from the decision- as proposed by the States themselves- to have the States' income tax sharing entitlements calculated as a percentage of the current year's net personal income tax collections. Members will be aware, however, that the amount of these tax collections cannot be precisely known until after the end of the financial year. 
At the 1 July 1977 Premiers Conference, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  offered to set the States' entitlements in 1977-78 at $4,336. lm, subject to adjustment on account of over-payments in 1976-77, if they would agree to an earlier Commonwealth proposal that the preceding year's collections be used as the base for calculating future entitlements. This base would reduce the uncertainty and the administrative difficulties which had been experienced with the use of the current year's collections as the base. Members will be aware, of course, that local government tax sharing entitlements have from the start been based on collections in the preceding year for this very reason. The Premiers Conference in July 1977 directed that Commonwealth and State officers should examine and report on arrangements for changing the total tax sharing entitlements from 33.6 per cent of the current year's collections to an appropriate percentage of the preceding year's collections. It was subsequently decided that the Commonwealth should provide, in its 1977-78 Budget, for an amount of $4,336. lm for the States' tax sharing entitlements in 1977-78. The officers' report was received on 18 October 1977 and was on the table at the Premiers Conference on 2 1 October 1977. 
On the basis of the officers' report, the Premiers' Conference of 21 October 1977 agreed to adopt the figure of 39.87 per cent of the preceding year's net personal income tax collections for purposes of calculating the States' entitlements from 1978-79 onwards. The amount of $4,336. lm in fact represents 39.87 per cent of 1976-77 net personal income tax collections; that is excluding revenue from the health insurance Medibank '-levy. The entitlement of $4,336. lm in 1977-78 and 39.87 per cent of the preceding year's collections in future years will be allocated between the States as prescribed by the 1976 Act. Legislation to change the per capita relativities may be introduced in due course as a result of a review conducted under arrangements provided for in this Bill, but that is something for the future. 
That brings me to the third important element of the Bill. The Bill provides, for the first time, for the distribution between the States of their total income tax sharing entitlement to be the subject of independent inquiry and report. At Premiers Conferences in February, April and June 1976, which laid the foundations for implementing the federalism policy, it was decided that there would be a periodic review of relativities between the States, that advice in relation to the review would be sought from an independent body, and that the first review would be made before the end of 1980-81. Important questions as to how the review body should be constituted and the guidelines under which it should operate remained for consideration at the time the existing legislation was enacted. There followed discussion between the Commonwealth and the States on these matters and following consideration at the April 1977 Premiers Conference, the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill 1977, nominating the Grants Commission as the review body and prescribing the guidelines which it was to follow, was introduced into the Parliament on 26 May 1977 and was passed by the House. However, in the light of views expressed thereafter by several Premiers, the Bill was not proceeded with in the last autumn session. It was in fact let lie on the table to allow Premiers and members of this Parliament time to examine it in detail and reflect on its provisions. 
At the 1 July 1977 Premiers Conference, the Premiers accepted the Prime Minister's proposal that the body to review the relativities should be a special division of the Grants Commission consisting of the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission, two members of the Commission, plus three associate members, one of whom would be nominated by New South Wales and Victoria and two by the four other States. As I mentioned earlier in this speech, a separate Bill, to be considered cognately with this Bill, is being introduced to amend the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 to provide for a special division of the Commonwealth Grants Commission supplemented by three associate members. The present Bill provides that that special division shall be the body to inquire into and report on the per capita relativities between States under stage 1 of the income tax sharing arrangements. The report of the review body will be discussed at a Premiers' Conference before action is taken in relation to it. I want to emphasise that the guidelines for the review, as set out in the Bill, were agreed in detail at the 21 October 1977 Premiers Conference following lengthy consideration and on the basis of three joint reports by Commonwealth and State officers. The basic principle to be applied in the review is what is known as the equalisation principle which has been developed and applied over the years by the Grants Commission in its inquiries and reports in relation to special grants to the States. This broad principle may be expressed in the following terms: Each State will be enabled to provide, without imposing taxes and charges at levels appreciably different from those of other States, government services at standards not appreciably different from the standards of other States. 
I turn now to the major specific provisions of the Bill. Clause 3 proposes the addition of two sub-sections to section 7 of the Act. Proposed sub-section 7 (2) provides for each State's share of the total tax-sharing entitlement in 1977-78 of $4,336.1m. Proposed sub-section 7 (3) provides from 1978-79 onwards for each State's share of 39.87 per cent of the base figure- that is, net personal income tax collections- in the preceding year. 
Clause 4 provides for the Statistician to make his determination of State populations by 10 June instead of by 7 August as at present, thus allowing the finalisation of States' entitlements within the financial year concerned. Clause 5 proposes the addition of several sub-sections to section 13 of the Act. Proposed sub-section 13 (3) requires the Minister to arrange for a review before 30 June 1981 and provides for the Minister to arrange reviews periodically thereafter after consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The October 1977 Premiers Conference agreed that the intention was for reviews to be held no more often than every three to five years, but that there should be flexibility to enable a review to be held whenever there were special circumstances which warranted this- for example, if a review were sought by, say, three States. There was extensive discussion of the timing of the first review at the April 1977 Premiers Conference and it was generally agreed that the review should commence as soon as possible. It was also recognised that the first review could take some time to complete. Accordingly, the Government would propose to issue an early reference under the new legislation once enacted. 
Proposed sub-section 13(3) in conjunction with proposed sub-section 13 (4) defines the purpose of the review to be to determine whether any change is desirable in the figures set out in section 4 of the Act- that is, the per capita relativities. Sub-section 13(3) provides for a division of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, constituted in accordance with a proposed new section 19A of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973, to be the review body and sets out the guidelines for the review as agreed by the October 1977 Premiers Conference. The Conference agreed that these guidelines were not intended to place any limitation on the review body in considering the matters that led to the existing relativities. 
The proposals embodied in this Bill represent the completion of the Stage 1 machinery of the tax-sharing arrangements. It is, therefore, an important step in the implementation of the Government's federalism policy. Finally, I want to emphasise these proposals are all agreed with the Premiers on the basis of long and intensive discussion. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 by reconstituting the Commission, in a form agreed with the States, for the purpose of enabling it to inquire into and report upon the per capita relativities between the States in their taxsharing entitlements. The Bill also makes provision for the Commission to inquire and report on special assistance to the Northern Territory. These provisions are associated with the proposal to confer responsible self-government on the Territory from 1 July 1978. Finally, the Bill makes provision for some minor changes of a machinery nature. 
The States have been consulted as fully as practicable in the drafting of the provisions of this Bill which relate to review of the per capita relativities between the States in their taxsharing entitlements. For the purpose of review of the per capita relativities between the States in their tax-sharing entitlements, this Bill provides for the establishment of a new division of the Commission comprising the  chairman,  two other members of the Commission and three associate members who will be appointed on the nomination of the States- one by the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria and two by the Premiers of the other four States. The effect of the relevant provisions of this Bill- principally clause 11- together with the Bill to amend the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976, will be to put into effect arrangements agreed with the Premiers at the July 1977 and October 1977 Premiers Conferences. We propose therefore that the two Bills be considered cognately. 
The second reading speech to the Bill to amend the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 highlighted the fact that the two Bills together complete Stage 1 of the taxsharing arrangements, which are central to the Government's federalism policy. Provisions governing inquiries and reports concerning the relativities between States of their tax-sharing entitlements under the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 are included in a proposed new section, section 19a of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973. That section also specifies arrangements for appointing associate members. Other proposed amendments deal with the working arrangements for associate members. 
Any report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on the matter of the relativities between the States in the tax-sharing entitlements will be discussed at a Premiers Conference before action is taken in relation to it. The Minister for Administrative Services, because of the continuing provisions in the Act, will be required to cause any such report to be laid before each House of the Parliament before any law relating to this matter is introduced into the Parliament. The guidelines to be followed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in conducting reviews of relativities between the States are contained in the Bill to amend the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976. That Bill also includes provisions under which the responsibility for conducting these reviews and making reports thereon may be referred to the Commission. 
I turn now to the provisions of the Bill as far as they relate to the Northern Territory. The Government and the Northern Territory executive have agreed that financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and a self-governing Northern Territory will be modelled on the arrangements that presently apply between the 
Commonwealth and the States. In the application of that model, of course, due regard will be had to the special circumstances and disabilities of the Territory. It is planned that selfgovernment should be implemented on I July 1978. Full implementation of the CommonwealthState financial model in respect of the Northern Territory should be achieved by 1 July 1979 or, at the latest, by 1 July 1980. 
On the basis that a self-governing Northern Territory is to be placed in a similar financial position to a smaller State, it has been agreed inter alia that a self-governing Northern Territory should be eligible to apply for special grants, on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, on a similar basis to that of a claimant State. This is provided for in clauses 5 and 9 of the Bill which follow closely the analogous provisions in relation to the States. 
In accordance with clause 2, these provisions will come into operation on 1 July 1978, the expected date of commencement of selfgovernment for the Northern Territory. However, it might be noted that these clauses depend for their effect on the passage of legislation, soon to be introduced, to provide for self-government for the Northern Territory. Special grants for the Northern Territory, of course, would only be appropriate in the context of an operational Commonwealth-State model or framework. Accordingly, special grants will not be paid in respect of the transitional period before the Commonwealth-State model has been implemented in respect of the Territory. 
Having regard to the time that will be required for the Commonwealth Grants Commission to undertake its initial inquiry into the revenues and expenditures of a self-governing Northern Territory, however, the Bill provides for the Territory, if it so wishes, to apply for a special grant any time after 1 July 1978. An early application would allow the Commission to commence an inquiry during the transitional period and thus be in a position after the transitional period to recommend speedily a special grant in respect of a financial year in which the CommonwealthState model is effective. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-The short answer that has been given to me by the Commissioner of Taxationas honourable members will be aware it is his discretion and not mine- is that there will be no such penalty. A taxpayer who applies to reduce his 1977-78 provisional tax and whose estimated taxable income is less than 80 per cent of his 1976-77 taxable income and also less than 80 per cent of his 1977-78 taxable income may, when the return for 1977-78 is assessed, be liable to a statutory additional tax penalty. The Commissioner has told me that I may be assured, and the House may be assured, that he will in those cases exercise the specific power given to him to remit the penalty in whole. I think, given the circumstances, that is a very proper and reasonable approach to be taken. I simply conclude my remarks by thanking honourable members on both sides of the House who participated in the debate. I believe that this legislation, when it goes on the statute books, will be widely welcomed by the entire Australian community. I think it will strike a massive blow against tax avoidance practices throughout this country. I think it will be a symbol of this Government's absolute conviction that the Australian community can no longer afford the type of abuse which this legislation is designed to destroy. 
-I do recall making the statement referred to by the Leader of the Opposition at that particular luncheon. I have made it on a number of occasions. I think it is significant that in the recent Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development report on Australia it is indicated that in the period from 1973 to 1975 the gap between real wages and productivity experienced in Australia was greater than the gap in respect of any other OECD country for which comparable statistics were kept. So the central position that this particular gap has occupied in the economic arguments of the Government has been very strongly confirmed by the recent OECD survey on Australia. 
The honourable gentleman asks me whether, from the fact that the calculated gap is 10 per cent, it follows automatically that there are direct implications in removing that 10 per cent gap on real wage levels. I have to say to the honourable gentleman that before responding to that precise question I would want again to examine the statistical and mechanical basis on which the percentage gap is calculated so that I can properly inform myself in order to give an answer. I will do that and I will let the honourable gentleman know whether what he is asserting necessarily follows. I take the opportunity of saying again that the Government adheres very strongly to the view that, although there has been some improvement in the last two years, the gap between real wages and productivity is still one of the basic distortions in the Australian economy. 
-I do not accept that the Government is over obsessive about the relationship between productivity and real wages. I make no apology and no member of the Government makes any apology for the central importance that has been placed upon this issue in the Government's economic strategy. I should have thought that the evidence I referred to in answering the honourable gentleman's earlier question indicated that in relative terms Australia did have a particular disability in this area. The honourable gentleman suggests that selective stimulus designed- I think I do him justice in saying this- to improve productivity through greater utilisation of unused capacity might help just as much as reducing real wages. I point out to the Leader of the Opposition that in asking that question he exhibits, I think, the error into which a number of commentators and observers on the Australian economy fall and that is using over-simplistic labels to describe our economic policies either as restrictionist or expansionary. 
The fact is that this Government has in a number of areas taken deliberate action designed to stimulate economic activity. 1 refer to the personal taxation cuts which came into effect on 1 February; I refer to the Government's decision on export incentives which were specifically designed to improve capacity utilisation and activity in export industries, particularly in the manufacturing sector. If the honourable gentlemen is saying to the Government that its economic policies should be a sensible mix of restraint and stimulus respectively in those areas where restraint and stimulus are required, I would agree with him. I suspect that the honourable gentlemen is not saying that. The honourable gentlemen is rather trying to persist with the absolutely fatuous proposition that there is no serious problem in this country so far as the level of real wages is concerned. That is demonstrable economic nonsense and will not be accepted by the Government. 
in reply- In concluding the second reading debate I intend to direct most of my comments to the criticisms which have been made in this debate and also by some people outside about the decision of the Government to apply the so-called Curran amendment from 16 August 1977. 1 think it is fair to say that, despite some of the rhetoric coming from the other side of the House, there is general support for the substantive provisions of the Bill, and I will be dealing with a number of more specific matters during the course of the Committee debate. 
An amendment has been moved by the Opposition. I regard it to be as blatant, contrived and artificial as the Curran scheme itself. The truth of the matter is that the Opposition has tried to have it both ways. From the time this Bill was brought out the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was saying 'Oh, of course I am opposed in principle to retrospectivity' and then the Australian Labor Party decided to be totally cynical about it and moved an amendment at the second reading stage requesting that all of the remedial provisions of this Bill be back-dated to 1 July 1977. I make it clear that the Government will have no bar of that for the simple reason that the Government still adheres generally to the principle that it is opposed to retrospective legislation. However, there are special circumstances which I shall deal with in a moment which distinguish this case from other cases. I also make it clear that this Bill and subsequent decisions which have been made by the Government since the Bill was introduced represent the most determined attempt by any government in 20 years really to eliminate and reduce tax avoidance on a wide scale. 
On behalf of the Government I say that the Australian community can no longer afford a situation where, through schemes which are totally devoid of commercial merit, schemes which amount to nothing other than a series of clever and contrived paper entries, massive amounts of tax are evaded and avoided. This Government has committed itself to a course of taxation reform. The greater its success in eliminating tax avoidance the greater will be the level of relief that it can give to the entire community of Australian taxpayers. Unless the Government is prepared to do this and to attack tax avoidance in a major way it will be failing not only in its duty to low income earners in this community who do not have access to these types of avoidance schemes but also it will be failing in its duty to a large number of high income earners who had both the opportunity and the financial incentive to enter into these schemes but who have consciously chosen not to do so. 
During this debate we have had a few judicial quotes. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  gave us some judicial quotes and so did the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  So perhaps I can be allowed one in defence of the proposition that I am putting regarding the Curran case. I rely on Halsbury's  Laws of England.  Coincidentally or ironically enough one of the authors of Halsbury's  Laws of England  was Lord Hailsham, the father of the Lord Hailsham to whom the right honourable member for Lowe referred. I quote from the third edition which was edited by Lord Simonds. On page 426 is a reference to a fairly well-known tax case which, ironically enough, is the case of Lord Howard de Walden versus Inland Revenue Commissioners, 1942, 1 Kings Bench 389. Lord Greene, a very eminent equity judge in the United Kingdom said: 
That fact that the section has to some extent a retroactive effect appears to us of no importance when it is realised that the legislation is a move in a long and fiercely contested battle with individuals who well understand the rigour of the contest. 
How appropriately could that be applied to those promoters of Curran schemes who, as the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  indicated, were not only unable to give to those who entered these schemes any real assurance that their arrangements would remain undisturbed by future legislation but in fact offered money back guarantees. Who can deny that those people, in the words of Lord Greene, 'well understand the rigour of the contest' and demanded a guarantee that the rigour would not catch them out. In respect of the rule of law argument I put down that quote from Lord Greene. There are other references but I do not in any sense retreat from the general policy of the Government against retrospection in tax or any other legislation. There has been reference in this debate to the Federal platform of the Liberal Party of Australia. I wonder whether the honourable member for Gellibrand will give me leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the section of the Liberal Party's Federal platform concerned with taxation, to which the right honourable member for Lowe referred. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the House. A part of the preamble reads: 
The system must be easy to understand - 
I think this is no disrespect to the Australian Taxation Office, the Treasury or anybody else: . . . simple and inexpensive to administer - 
I think probably everybody would agree that we still have a fair way to go in achieving that objective: . . . fair in appearance and in practice . . . 
I put it to honourable members on my side and particularly to the right honourable member for Lowe: How can one seriously argue that a taxation system is fair in appearance and in practice when the estimate of lost revenue through the use of this scheme given to me by the Commissioner of Taxation as being by no means out of the question is $500m? If that is the case, we have the sobering thought that the amount of revenue at stake if this action had not been taken by the Government in fact would have exceeded by almost $ 100m the total value of the February tax cuts to the entire Australian community in this financial year. How can anybody under those circumstances argue that our taxation system was fair in either appearance or practice? 
The Government does not by this action signal in any sense that it would generally embrace retrospection in taxation legislation. I have recently indicated that the Government intends, whenever evidence of the emergence of a tax avoidance scheme is sufficient to give details, to announce forthwith that it intends to introduce legislation and that that legislation will operate from the date of that announcement. That practice has already been implemented twice in recent weeks. It has been implemented in respect of the announcement in my second reading speech regarding current year losses- I can indicate to the House that the legislation giving effect to that announcement will be introduced during this session- and, secondly, in respect of an announcement about prepaid interest and prepaid rent schemes. That will be the practice of the Government. 
The decision regarding this legislation was not taken lightly and was not taken without due regard to the genuine views of some people in this community who do not have a financial interest in Curran schemes but are nonetheless disturbed about the possible breach of principle involved. There are people in that category. It is easy for members of the Opposition to say that everybody on our side of politics who may have reservations about this legislation has a financial interest. That is a lot of nonsense. I know a number of people who would have had no more desire to go into a Curran scheme than thousands of other high income earners. Nonetheless they have worries and doubts about this legislation. I can understand that. It was not a decision taken lightly but ultimately, as the honourable member for Macarthur said, the Government had to put two competing principles into balance. It had to put into balance the principle of nonretrospectivity against the principle of the overall equity of the tax system. The Government put those two principles into balance, having regard to the official advice that was available from the Commissioner of Taxation regarding the potential threat to revenue involved in this scheme and also, in a subsidiary sense, having regard to a specific warning by a former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  in 1974, and the more general- certainly I acknowledge that I have never said otherwisenon specific announcement of a crackdown on tax avoidance by my predecessor in the last Budget Speech. Taking all of those factors together but overwhelmingly putting into balance the two competing principles of the equity of the tax system and its objection generally to retrospectivity, the Government came to the conclusion that the public interest would best be served by taking the decision that it took in respect of this case. 
I must say that I was surprised when listening to the speech of the right honourable member for Lowe- and I did pay him the courtesy of coming into the House to listen to his speech- to hear him criticise the fact that the Government was concerning itself with public interest. He saidand I do not think I do the language of the right honourable gentleman violence by saying thisthat really it is very dangerous for governments to get mixed up with public interest in matters like this. I should have thought that if there is one thing governments have to get mixed up in it is public interest. I should have thought that the overwhelming responsibility of Ministers in this or any government is to concern themselves with the public interest. 
It was out of that concern for the public interest that the Government decided to take the action that it has taken on this occasion. So it was overwhelmingly on the basis of having to put into balance the two competing principles of the equity of the tax system and non-retrospectivity that the Government decided on this occasion as a special case that the principle of the equity of the tax system should have greater weight. 
There has been considerable reference both here and outside to the question of precedent. People have said that this is a dangerous move for a government on our side of politics to make because it establishes a bad precedent for less trustworthy people in the future. That is a serious argument. I will try to answer it seriously. It is easy to raise the cry of a bad precedent. I put it to the House in all sincerity that the question of whether this or any other government in the future can successfully invoke the cry of precedent does not depend ultimately on the quality of the precedent it tries to invoke but rather upon the merits of the particular decision it may take in the future which it seeks to justify by a resort to precedent. I simply do not accept the argument that if a future government were to pass legislation having retrospective effect regarding a normal commercial transaction that government could persuade me or the overwhelming majority of the Australian community that what this Government is doing now and what it is determined to do on this occasion could be invoked as a suitable precedent. I can appreciate the understandable concern of people about the issue of precedent. I do not take their argument lightly. I believe it is just not simply a case of invoking the cry of bad precedent. One has to look at the merits of the future action which it is sought to justify by resort to precedent. 
There have been suggestions both here and outside that there has been an over-estimation of the volume of revenue at stake regarding these schemes. I can do none other than repeat the official advice which has been given to me by the Commissioner of Taxation, namely, that several hundred million dollars of revenue is involved and that the figure of $500m is not out of the question. I think the right honourable member for Lowe suggested that it means that one would need $ 1,000m of income in order to support a figure of $500m. 
It is $ 1,000m of capital reserves, not $ 1,000m of profit that is involved. I remind the right honourable gentleman that according to figures of the Reserve Bank, in 1974 and 1975 the total capital reserves of private companies in Australia was $6,000m. I also remind honourable members and anyone else who doubts the possible veracity of the figures given to me by the Commissioner of Taxation that there are many and varied ways by which the capital reserves of both public and private companies can be altered. They can be altered by the revaluation of goodwill; they can be altered by all sorts of other methods and devices. We all know that that occurs. 
The insinuation was made in this debate that in some way there was not the capital reserves capacity or in fact the economic capacity in companies for these types of arrangements to support a loss to revenue in the order of $500m or more. I reject that argument. I do not believe that it has any substance, and I would have thought that the remarks I have made support that rejection. 
This is an important measure. It is important not only in terms of anti-tax avoidance legislation generally but also to honourable members on this side of the House because we have taken a decision which we believe, in the words of our platform, will give greater fairness both in appearance and in practice in our tax system. We believe that in this Bill we have struck a blow not only for the low income earners in our community but also for the many high income earners in our community who detest the level of tax avoidance which is practised by many people. I make it clear that the Opposition does not have a monopoly on the detestation of tax avoidance. If the Opposition imagines that it has seriously acquitted itself as an Opposition in this debate by trotting out these limp and shop soiled arguments about the rich and the poor, it has made a very serious mistake. 
This legislation represents the most comprehensive anti-tax avoidance measure that has been brought before this Parliament for 15 years or more. This Government has done something about tax avoidance. The Labor Government which was in office for three years did nothing about tax avoidance. Let that simple fact be put into the record of this debate. Members of the Opposition leave this debate with no credit. They leave this debate having moved an artificial, blatant and contrived amendment at this second reading stage. They leave this debate as members of the party which when in government, did nothing about tax avoidance while professing a concern for the way in which the tax system ground down the average man. Let it be remembered that it is this side of politics that has done something about the equity of the tax system. It is this side of politics which, through its program of tax reform, has done something about lightening the tax burden for-- 
-This Government has done something about lightening the tax burden on the whole community. Of course, if the tax system is reformed, the dollars saved by a high income earner are greater than the dollars saved by a low income earner. It is also the case that the dollars paid by a high income earner in the form of taxation exceed the dollars paid by a low income earner. It is a matter of elementary logic that a reduction in taxation reduces in absolute money terms the amount of taxation paid by the high income earner. 
The introduction of this legislation is based upon a sober decision taken by the Government, it having put two principles into balance. The Government made a decision which it believes gives greater fairness both in appearance and in practice to the tax system. It is a decision which is in the public interest. I believe that it is a decision which can be defended thoroughly and absolutely, as I have been prepared to do. So have other members. I thank other honourable members who have done so also.  (Extension of time granted)  I will conclude my remarks within two minutes. There is one other matter that I would like to mention at this stage. I should indicate to the House that during the Committee stage of the debate I will be dealing with a couple of other matters that have been raised in this second reading debate, particularly those matters raised by the honourable member for Macarthur. I will be speaking also to the amendment which has been circulated dealing with the rebate systems regarding off-shore companies. 1 would like to tell the House and those people in the community generally who are interested in this matter that since the legislation was introduced the question has been raised by a number of honourable members on this side of the House and by other people as to whether taxpayers who, between 16 August 1977 and 7 April 1978, entered in a Curran scheme and who prior to the latter date applied for a reduction in 1977-78 provisional tax in reliance on the scheme, will be penalised for making the application in circumstances in which they might have anticipated when lodging the application that their Curran scheme would be effective for this purpose. I referred this matter to the Commissioner of Taxation. He has informed me that the short answer to that query - 
-I think it is fair to say that the investment allowance that was introduced by the present Government shortly after its election to office in 1975 has very much achieved its objective which was to give a boost in the area of investment. If one looks at the progress of capital investment figures since the investment allowance was introduced I think one can make a very powerful case for it. Certainly the cost to revenue, if I may put it like that, of the investment allowance is a very powerful case to the extent to which it has been used. I think it has allowed a large number of Australian business enterprises, both large and small, to improve their cost efficiency. 
There are some in the community who would argue that in some areas the investment allowance has aided rather than retarded the process of labour-shedding. I do not accept that overall the investment allowance has been an adverse factor so far as unemployment is concerned, but I think one must bear in mind that there are some in the community who would argue that the investment allowance has not been as effective in the job creation area as some may have thought. Overall, the investment allowance has made a major contribution to cost control for business, both large and small. It has achieved its objective of providing a boost. 
The Government does have under consideration at the present time the possibility of some re-examination of the phasing arrangements which are to commence on 30 June of this year, that is, the phasing down from 40 per cent to 20 per cent. I point out to the honourable gentleman in the context of any request for an extension of the investment allowance as such, it has already been extended in terms of a two-year extension of the 20 per cent period from 1983 to 1985. The Government has before it a consideration of the impact of possible industrial disputes on large projects that may not be fully in place by 30 
June. A decision will be made on that in due course. 
I note the honourable gentleman's reference to the removal of the statutory accelerated depreciation allowance that was formerly available to primary producers. It is true that this allowance was terminated in 1973, 1 think, although I may be  incorrect, as  a result of the Coombs task force recommendations which were very punitive in regard to primary industry throughout Australia. Of course, expenditure of that order under normal depreciation provisos is still eligible for deductions. I shall give consideration as I am sure will some of my colleagues in the context of the Budget to the request which is contained in the honourable gentleman's question. Any decision on it will have to be taken in the context of overall decisions on expenditure by the Government. 
I believe that the proposed amendment arises from a sincere concern by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  which I think is shared by a large number of people on this side of the chamber regarding the very difficult issue of the wide discretionary powers of the Commissioner of Taxation. At the outset I say that I do not regard a concern that the discretionary powers of the Commissioner should not be too wide as evincing in any sense some kind of maudlin sympathy for tax evasion. I think that the cause of putting as many limits as are practicable on the discretionary powers contained in tax legislation and the concern to keep those discretionary powers at a minimum are legitimate and natural for people who espouse a Liberal Party philosophy. I can understand why the matter has been raised. 
I inform the Committee that this is a matter that has been the subject of a number of discussions between members of the taxation subcommittee of the Government parties Treasury Committee and me. I am concerned to try to find an appropriate balance between the need- when people are resorting to complicated devices and schemes- to give the Commissioner of Taxation sufficient power to exercise in order to provide for all the combinations and permutations that can arise in legislation of this character and at the same time to provide some kind of restraint on the exercise of those discretionary powers. I think the Committee will be aware that the exercise of those discretionary powers is always subject to an appeal to the independent board of review constituted under the Income Tax Assessment Act and ultimately to the courts. 
I am afraid that on this occasion, for a number of reasons the Government, however much it shares the concern of the right honourable member for Lowe, cannot accept the amendment which he moved. The first and most important of course is that we do not believe that if that amendment were adopted the resulting provision would work. It would substitute a subjective test leaving unanswered the question of who is to make the judgment as to what is the appropriate way of spreading the actual costs of the original shares. As a formal matter it is necessary to say that in the first place it is the Commissioner who is to make the necessary judgment. Should the Commissioner spread the actual cost of the original shares in a way that the taxpayer does not accept to be appropriate, the taxpayer has the right to have the matter reviewed by an independent taxation board of review. I illustrate that in a straightforward case. Where a one for one bonus issue is made in respect of shares that cost $5, each of the original and bonus shares will be treated as having cost $2.50 but there cannot be hard and fast rules for other more complicated cases. It must be remembered that private company bonus issues are principally a feature of the Curran or other tax avoidance schemes. 
Whilst I did not share some of the other remarks of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  I thought he made a legitimate point when he said that here we are dealing with a method of operation and a vehicle which is fairly commonly employed for tax evasion. There is the danger that any attempt to lay down fixed rules for all cases not only fall to the objection that we cannot think of all cases when legislation is being prepared; but also it is no admission for me to say- or anybody with my responsibilities from time to time- that it is never possible for the legislature to determine in advance what will be all the loopholes in taxation legislation. For those reasons the Government is unable to accept the comments that have been made by the right honourable member for Lowe. 
Perhaps, I could take the opportunity when dealing with this clause to say something about a matter which, very understandably, has been the subject of representations to me since the legislation was introduced. It concerns the suggestion that, in some of the assessments that have been made by the Commissioner for Taxation in respect of what might be Curran scheme arrangements in the 1976-77 tax year, there is some question of double taxation or liability for a double amount of tax having arisen. This has been, very understandably, the subject of representations to me by a number of honourable members, including the right honourable member for Lowe and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  These representations have concerned, firstly, the method of assessment used by the Commissioner with respect to taxpayers who have utilised Curran schemes in the 1976-77 financial year and, secondly, the combined so-called doubling up effect on Curran type transactions entered into in the 1977-78 year and to which amendments in this 
Bill apply. Having conferred with the Commissioner for Taxation on the subject, I inform the Committee that taxpayers who, on the established facts of their particular cases, are able to bring themselves clearly within the ambit of the Curran decision- that is, establish themselves as share traders- will be given the benefit of the decision in their assessments based on the 1 976-77 income year. However, the Commissioner has pointed out that in many of the 1976-77 returns lodged in which a Curran loss was claimed the supporting evidence was not conclusive that the taxpayer concerned was entitled to that loss as a genuine share trader. In some of these cases where the relevant facts had not been uncovered in full a basis of assessment was adopted by the Commissioner which ascribed part of the cost of the original shares to the deriving of the exempt dividends satisfied by the issue of the bonus shares. The Commissioner informs me that this was on his part essentially a holding basis of assessment and that he would not be seeking to maintain it once the material facts relating to the particular transactions had been established. 
The Commissioner of Taxation has further informed me that in any defence of particular assessments he will not seek to reduce the allowable costs below their commercial level. In the implementation of this holding basis of assessment some unintended and inappropriate results have appeared. The Commissioner has told me that in these cases he has directed his officers to commence inquiries at once and not to wait for the taxpayer concerned to object to the assessment. As soon as the inquiries are completed the assessment will be amended and reconstituted to reflect information revealed by the inquiry or supplied by the taxpayer. In other cases the normal assessment objection review process will be adhered to. The Commissioner has assured mc that he will not be seeking to collect tax that might, as it turns out, have been based on an inappropriate assessment. Recovery action will be deferred until an amended assessment has issued and the taxpayer has been informed of the tax correctly payable. 
With respect to the so-called double penalty effect on Curran transactions to which the amending legislation applies in the 1977-78 year, I have been informed by the Commissioner that there is no possibility of this occurring. I can assure the Committee that it is not the intention of the Government that this should occur or its belief in the circumstances that I have now explained to the Committee after discussion with the Commissioner for Taxation that this will in fact occur. The Commissioner will have no need of recourse, nor will he apply the holding basis of assessment. He will simply apply the provisions embodied in this Bill. I might say to the Committee that this is a matter that quite properly has been brought to the attention of the Government and of the Commissioner. Those honourable members who have raised this matter with me have done so understandably and I can only assure the Committee that there is no intention on the part of the Government or the Commissioner that there be an exposure to double liability for tax in circumstances where that is manifestly not appropriate. There is no covert intention on the part of the Government that that should be the case. I believe that the explanation of the matter which has now been supplied to me by the Commissioner and which I have conveyed to the Committee should put that matter at rest. 
I appreciate the comment of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  The explanation which I gave on the so-called double taxation issue was complicated. I can only plead that the issue itself is complicated and seek forgiveness if my explanation was difficult to follow. If I understand correctly the right honourable gentleman's question, he is inquiring as to the capacity of boards of review and courts to oversee the exercise of discretion by the Commissioner of Taxation in these matters. 
My understanding is that the board, or the courts, will review exercises of discretion by the Commissioner and, in fact, where there is evidence that he has acted on wrong grounds, or capriciously, will substitute other judgments therefor. I cannot, in the short notice given me, be more explicit, but I do not believe that the discretion vested in the Commissioner, untrammelled though it may appear to be on the surface, in fact remains so for all time, objections raised with boards of review or the courts notwithstanding. I can only repeat that it is an extraordinarily difficult area, in which a balance must be struck between the need to provide the Commissioner, because of the type of situation with which he is dealing, with a certain level of discretion and also to provide procedures which involve sufficient checks and balances. 
Perhaps I could make one other comment. On the question of the exercise of discretion, a number of people, including honourable members, have over the last two or three weeks raised with me the possibility that a number of public information bulletins could be issued by the Commissioner of Taxation as to the basis upon which the discretions authorised in the Bill might be exercised. Those who urge that course of action have in mind, I believe, the experience with the 1964 amendments. After a period had elapsed subsequent to the amendments coming into force, a large number of such bulletins were issued. I must say that that request raises the dilemma to which I referred earlier- the need to strike a balance between what is required to ensure that all possible cases are covered and, equally, the necessity that the Commissioner's discretion not be too untrammelled. I assure the Committee that the question of finding an appropriate balance, and additional methods by which it may be struck, will be in investigated further. For instance, I have discussed with the Commissioner of Taxation the possibility of representative groups such as professional accounting bodies being asked to delineate, in a reasonably detailed way, common situations that would be likely to cause concern as a result of uncertainty. The Commissioner would in those circumstances be happy to offer all possible clarification on the way in which, in the course of administration, the relative discretionary powers might be expected to be exercised. If that were done, a fairly wide dissemination of such clarification in the professional journals and so on could be expected. 
I do not regard that as being in any sense an exhaustive or conclusive answer to those who have raised this matter. It is an important problem. I do not have a ready-made solution which achieves a desirable balance between the two competing propositions, but one of the matters that will engage my attention closely in coming weeks and months, so far as the operation of the taxation legislation is concerned, is that of exploring further with the Commissioner of Taxation ways in which, in appropriate casesespecially those concerning normal commercial transactions- information as to the basis on which discretion might be exercised can be provided. This would have to be consistent at all times with the need for the Commissioner, for the Committee and indeed for practitioners, to recognise that we are still dealing with an area of the law wherein it is the difficult job of the Commissioner to anticipate every conceivable loophole that might be created, and to recognise that in many cases clarification is sought not in respect of normal commercial transactions but rather those whose only motive is the avoidance of the incidence of tax. 
Amendment negatived. 
I thank everybody who has participated in the debate on this clause. I do not think that I am overstating the situation to say that this has been one of the best Committee debates which has taken place in this chamber over the past year or 18 months. I find absolutely nothing offensive but only something which is only to the good to our side of politics and to the system about the fact that there should be genuine agonising debate in open forum between members of Liberal and National Country Parties on matters of principle. That is how the parliamentary system works. However much I may disagree with some of the things that have been said during this debate by honourable members on my side, particularly the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  I share completely the rejection of the innuendos that have been levelled against the motives of those people on my side who have questioned the Government's actions. 
As I said during the conclusion of the second reading debate on Friday, I can well understand people haying no financial interest whatever in these schemes having very genuine doubts. I also assure those people on my side who have said that they found it very difficult to reach a conclusion that likewise I did not find it easy to recommend to the Government early last month that it should apply legislation which I acknowledged from the beginning was retrospective. Whilst I believe that arguments can be advanced about the degrees of retrospection and the fact that we have on earlier occasions passed laws after the commencement of a financial year which date back to the beginning of the financial year, whatever measure we use it is retrospective legislation although it is retrospective within one financial year. I have made no apology for that. I have already explained, in concluding the second reading debate, that the Government on a balance of the two principles took the view that its duty lay in giving greater weight to the principle of the equity of the tax system. I found very little to disagree with in the speech of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton),  who put the matter very much on the question of what was the justice of the situation. Governments being charged above all else with the responsibility of making an assessment of the public interest, I believe that it was our job with these two principles in conflict to make a decision which in the view of the Government was based upon the public interest. 
I make three other points. The first concerns the question of precedent. That has entered the debate and it is important that it be considered in the debate. I remind the Committee of what I said on this subject on Friday, that is, that ultimately when any government, be it a Liberal government or a Labor government, seeks to justify an action it is about to undertake by resort to precedent it is not sufficient to invoke the precedent in order to satisfy the community that it is justified in taking that action. It must also first persuade the community that the merits of the action which it seeks to undertake are on the side of what it proposes to do. I put it to those on my side of the chamber who are concerned about the precedent that it will not be sufficient for a future Labor government in seeking to apply a piece of retrospective legislation simply to say that it has a precedent in what the present Government is doing in respect of the Curran case. It must go the very vital step further of satisfying the community that the merits of the proposal it intends to put onto the statute book can be justified on the grounds of public interest. 
I make a second point about the question of the amount concerned. I have said from the outset, and I say it again, that it is impossible precisely to quantify the amount involved. Anybody who has the barest semblance of understanding of the taxation system will know that we are dealing with the current income tax year which is not yet concluded, and the great majority of the tax returns that would have shown up the incidence of Curran scheme usage if this legislation were not being passed will not be lodged with the Commissioner of Taxation until the early part of next year. Therefore it is impossible for anybody to quantify the amount. It is all very well for the right honourable member for Lowe to say that he wants hard, definitive evidence. It is impossible to give it at this time. I have never made any secret of that. What I have said is that on the basis of the information that is available and on the basis of an examination of returns that were lodged in respect of the 1976-77 tax year the official advice of the Commissioner of Taxation to the Government is that the amount involved is hundreds of millions of dollars and the figure of $500m is not out of the question. The other thing that I should like to say about the amount involved- I say this in defence of the criticism which has been made of the Taxation Office during this debate, and I say it in all sincerity- is that the real evidence of the abuse by these schemes in the tail end of the 1976-77 tax year did not come to the attention of the Commissioner of Taxation until the early part of this year. I say that sincerely because I think it is proper that that be said in defence of the action of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
I make one final comment. This debate has rightly raised on this side of the chamber and in some quarters on the other side of the chamber a concern with the question of principle. I say again that, generally speaking, the Government parties are opposed to retrospectivity in taxation legislation. Two or three weeks ago we outlined procedures whereby immediately a taxation abuse emerges in sufficient detail for it to be publicly prescribed it will be followed as soon as possible by remedial legislation. I believe that that will give to the Government a far more speedy and effective weapon for fighting tax avoidance practices in the future. It is unusual for anybody who holds Liberal principles dear to his heart to advocate the application of retrospective legislation but on this occasion I believe that the merits of the situation and our duty to the overwhelming majority of the Australian community require that the principle of the equity of the tax system take precedence over the question of nonretrospectivity. 
I am afraid that the Government cannot accept the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I understand the concern he has expressed about discretionary powers being vested in the Commissioner. That was the subject of debate earlier, during the consideration of his three proposed amendments. I think it can be said in respect of the present proposed amendment that whatever may be the arguments on both sides about the appropriateness of vesting discretion in the Commissioner of Taxation, his proposed amendment would be destructive in so far as the purpose of clause 9 is concerned. It proposes the withdrawal of new section 52a, but offers nothing in its place. The Government cannot accept the amendment because it would withdraw a key provision against tax avoidance. Nothing that the right honourable gentleman said had reference to a possible alternative method of achieving that objective. If in fact such a method had been outlined- one that contained the same weaponry against avoidance, while curtailing in some way the discretions extended- the Government would have been prepared to look at it seriously. 
This is an example of how extremely difficult it is, if we, are to have serious tax avoidance legislation in areas such as this, to do so without vesting discretion in the Commissioner. The section that the right honourable gentleman seeks to delete is directed at schemes to create artificial loss from share trading. The Government believes that it is a necessary provision. Although I understand the concern of the right honourable gentleman about the giving of discretion, I point out that there are guidelines in the section in respect to the exercise of that discretion. Again, whilst I understand his concern, I am afraid that for the reasons outlined the Government cannot accede to his proposed amendment. 
By way of a footnote I might say in response to a comment that was made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that the Government will take on board the remarks he has made about section 260 of the Act. There are a lot of arguments- this is not the context in which to raise them- that can be put concerning particular areas of uncertainty, in so far as what are proper commercial transactions is concerned. There are strong arguments both for and against what the honourable gentleman proposes and, as with all other comments that have been made during the debate, his suggestion will be taken on board for the purpose of the Government's general review of tax legislation. 
I think the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is again raising the substance of the argument on the earlier clause. What I said in concluding the debate on that clause was that it is not possible, certainly not at this stage for reasons I outlined in my reply, to quantify precisely the amounts involved. All the Commissioner of Taxation can do is make assessments on the basis of his own knowledge as a person perhaps more than anyone else who has an understanding of the likely volumes. He has contact with people who might assist him in assessment of the likely volumes. Given the fairly hard evidence of the extent to which the schemes were used in the 1976-77 tax year it is possible to make some quantification in respect of the last six or eight weeks of that tax year. On the basis of that, an assessment of several hundred million dollars has been provided to the Government. 
I cannot guarantee to the honourable member, if he is asking me to do so, that ultimately it may be established that a particular scheme, not being the Curran scheme, has also been responsible for the loss of a very large amount of revenue. I do not know that. All I can say to him is that the evidence available to the Commissioner leads him to advise the Government that the dimension of the loss to revenue involved in the Curran scheme is of the magnitude in his view of what I have described during this debate. He does not give me, and has not given me, that advice in respect of the other schemes that are covered by this legislation. For that reason the view of the Government regarding the Curran scheme is- and we have been debating this subject for several hours now and I am sure that the honourable member does not want me to redebate it - 
It is not possible for me to give the honourable member a quantification regarding the matter he raised. I doubt whether it will be possible to give him an exact or precise quantification. If the honourable gentleman is saying to the Committee it may ultimately be the case that scheme A might have been proved to have been more costly to the revenue but for action taken by the Government I would say to the honourable gentleman that the evidence such as it is available to the Government at the present time indicates that of all the schemes covered by this Bill the Curran scheme represents by far the largest threat to the revenue. There will be people in the community who may disagree with that. There will be others in the community and in the professions who will very strongly agree with that. Inevitably in the debate that has gone on over the past few weeks some people have put it to me that the Government has not been misled in a deliberate sense but that the Government is under a misapprehension regarding the volume. Equally there have been others who have put it to me and to some of my colleagues that the Government has not in any sense been misled or misinformed about the volume. All I can say to the honourable gentleman is that quite honestly on the advice available to the Government the dimension of the threat to revenue by the particular scheme we were talking about earlier is far greater than any of the other schemes which are the subject of this Bill. I cannot in a quantitative sense go further than what I have done during the debate. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 19- by leave- taken together. 

Omit proposed sub-section (23), substitute the following sub-section : ' "(25) Where a person has paid moneys on shares and- 
the proceeds of the sale of the shares have been included, or are to be included, in the assessable income of the person of any year of income; 
8 profit arising from the sale of the shares has been included, or is to be included, in the assessable income of the person of any year of income; or 
a loss arising from the sale of the shares has been allowed, or is allowable, as a deduction in an assessment of the person in respect of income of any year of income, then a rebate in respect of the moneys paid on the shares is not allowable, and shall be deemed not to have been allowable, under sub-section (5) or ( 15) in any assessment in respect of income of that person.". 
This is what I might call a benefit amendment. It deals with clause 20 which gives effect to a commitment made regarding the introduction of a rebate scheme for off-shore petroleum shares. This commitment was made last year shortly after the Budget Speech of my predecessor. The provision proposed to be amended is a safeguarding measure designed to prevent a taxpayer from gaining a double benefit in respect of moneys paid on shares but qualifying for a rebate under the new shareholder rebate scheme. The principle contained in this provision accords with the general prohibition of double deductions already contained in income tax law. The double benefit could arise in the case of a taxpayer being a share trader who, having qualified for a rebate under the new provisions, also qualifies for a deduction under the general provisions of the income tax law for the cost of his shares. It could also arise where shares on which moneys had been subscribed in circumstances that fit within the new rebate scheme are sold within 12 months of acquisition. 
Although the Government remains firmly committed to the policy of not allowing double benefits under the income tax law it accepts that the provision in the Bill restricting the tax allowance to a rebate of 30c for each $ 1 subscribed may operate inappropriately for a taxpayer who will be taxable on the sale of shares that have qualified for the rebate, particularly where the rate of tax levied on any profit is significantly greater than 30c and a tax saving from a deduction for the amount subscribed would give a much greater tax saving. Accordingly the Government has decided that in order to remove any disadvantage that may arise in these circumstances the Bill should now be amended to provide for the allowance of a deduction in respect of moneys paid on shares that qualified for the rebate and for the consequent withdrawal of the rebate when the shares are sold in taxable circumstances. 
The Government believes that this amendment should generally overcome the difficulty entailed by the provision in its present form. But I should emphasise to the Committee and to those interested in this measure that the Government will be prepared to monitor closely the operation of the amendment which is now proposed to be inserted to ensure that the objective sought by the amendment is in fact achieved. I would like to thank a number of members on this side of the chamber who have drawn attention to the possible detriment or disability to a certain class of potential investors as contained in the existing Bill. In particular I thank the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who at an early stage pointed out this possible disability. I am grateful to him and to other members of the Government's taxation sub-committee for their assistance in this regard. The amendment removes a potential disadvantage to a person in a share trading situation who might wish, for wholly proper and desirable reasons, to invest in these companies and in the purchase of shares that will attract the benefit of the rebate. I think it is desirable and proper that the amendment be made. 
-The answer to the first part of the question would be self-evident to the honourable member from an examination of the Bill which passed all stages in this House last night, so I do not need to occupy, I hope, the time of the House at Question Time in repeating the provisions of a Bill which have been debated at length in this House. I will move along to the second part of the honourable member's question. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. He has drawn the attention of the House to a certain amount of speculation on and a certain number of contributions to a consideration of the motor vehicle industry at the present time which have proved very unhelpful. I would have to say to the honourable member quite categorically, in case there should be any doubt about it in his mind or in the minds of anyone else, that the Government does not propose any reduction in sales tax on motor vehicles. I draw the attention of the honourable member and of all honourable members of parts of the editorial in this morning's issue of the  Australian Financial Review  which categorised the argument about sales tax reduction as a gimmick. The problems of the Australian motor vehicle industry will not be solved by gimmicks, nor will the problems of the industry be solved by unhelpful statements from the other side of the House. 
-I do not have the facility to make rapid calculations of the type required to answer that question now. I will analyse the honourable member's question and provide him with an answer as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments made to airlines by the Department of Finance, and by the Department of the Treasury in relation to functions that became the responsibility of the Department of Finance on the creation of that Department on 7 December 1 976, for air travel within Australia in 1976-77, as shown in the accounting records of the Department of Finance, were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The dates on which interest rate reductions were implemented varied between banks; in the main they ranged from early February to 1 March. For some existing loans the reductions became effective as repayment instalments fell due; this would have carried some adjustment dates into March. 
This question is assumed to relate to savings and trading banks (available information relating to other financial institutions is given under (4) below). The reduction of 0.S per cent applied to new loans and virtually all existing loans for housing in which the borrower resides or intends to reside. I understand that with only minor exceptions, banks have given borrowers the option of either reducing repayments or shortening the period of the loan. There is no information available on the proportion which has chosen to shorten the period of the loan. 
The following table indicates shares of total housing finance approvals by all significant lenders in 1977: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Early in 1 972 the Information Computer and Communication Policy Group of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) selected as one of its projects the 'Economic Analysis of Information Activities and the Role of Electronics, Telecommunications and Related Technologies'. The project is still at an embryonic stage and work is proceeding towards clarifying underlying objectives, establishing a viable definitional and classificational basis for the statistical analyses that have been proposed, and determining the basic feasibility of the work. The project is being conducted under the guidance of an Expert Group on which Australia has been represented. 
In response to a request from the OECD Secretariat for background information for this project, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) has provided some assistance. The Expert Group has also requested that experimental work with respect to the information sector be undertaken in terms of labour force analysis and the compilation of information sector accounts. Resources available to the ABS have precluded its undertaking such work in respect of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of overseas and Australian studies are available relating to the effect of investment allowances on investment and employment. The conclusion to be drawn from those studies is that while there is good reason to expect the investment allowance to stimulate investment expenditures, the complexity engendered by the many factors impinging on investment decisions precludes an unequivocal statement on the strength of that link. 
The conclusion concerning the employment response is similar. A higher level of investment leads to a higher level of employment in those industries producing investment goods. Further, if the lower cost of investment has enabled a new project to proceed that investment also creates new jobs. 
For replacement investment, the effect on employment very much depends on the degree to which capital and labour are interchangeable and on their relative costs; the higher the cost of labour relative to capital the greater the incentive towards labour-saving investment. 
While there is a good deal of evidence that the investment allowance has played a role in the recent pick-up in investment, there is also evidence that a good deal of that investment has been labour-saving replacement investment aimed at offsetting the unacceptably high real cost of labour. The gains in productivity so obtained are required to cover the high cost of labour; until that is covered there will be less incentive for expansionary investment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks interim appropriations for capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services totalling, in all, approximately $592m, for the period 1 July 1978 to 30 November 1978. The Bill includes $100m for the Advance to the Minister for Finance- the same amount as was provided in last year's Supply Act. 
As I emphasised when introducing Supply Bill (No. 1 ) 1978-79, the provisions in the Bill are not to be interpreted as in any way anticipating what amounts might be included in the 1978-79 Budget. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, together with the companion Bill, Supply Bill (No. 2) 1978-79, seeks interim appropriations for the services of the Government for the period 1 July 1978 to 30 November 1978, by which date it is expected that the Appropriation Bills forming part of the 1978-79 Budget will have been enacted. 
Supply Bill (No. 1) seeks appropriations totalling approximately $3,844m for the ordinary annual services of the Government. This is $332m, or 9 per cent, greater than the amounts provided in Supply Act (No. 1) 1977-78 and, taking both Bills together, the increase over last year is $ 1 79m or approximately 4 per cent. 
I wish to emphasise that the Supply Bills are not to be interpreted as in any way anticipating what amounts might be included for any particular service in the 1978-79 Budget. The provisions in these Bills are based wholly on current expenditure levels and have no regard whatever to policy decisions to be taken in the context of next year's Budget. When the Budget is passed the appropriations in the Bill will be subsumed by the appropriations in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1978-79. The Bill includes $100m for the Advance to the Minister for Finance, which is the same amount as the provision in the Supply Act (No. 1) 1977-78. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I can inform the honourable gentleman that this whole matter is under consideration by the Government and when decisions on it are announced he will know the situation. 
-I can tell the House that in recent days the Government has given very careful consideration to the conditions attaching to payment of the investment allowance and has reached certain decisions on those conditions. I point out to the House that the purpose of the investment allowance when it was introduced by the Government was to provide in the shorter term a boost and a stimulus to investment activity. In view of the level of investment activity in Australia, particularly in the last six or nine months, there is no doubt that the investment allowance has made a major contribution. I indicate to the House that the cost to revenue of the investment allowance in the current financial year is calculated to be $325m and for 1978-79- that is, the coming financial year- it is estimated to be of the order of $400m. So by any measure this allowance has been a liberal one, a properly liberal one and a properly generous one. Nonetheless it must be said that it has represented a significant revenue concession and, in the Government's view, one that is totally justified in order to encourage investment. 
The Government has considered whether any alterations should be made to the arrangements oulined last year by my predecessor which, as honourable members will know, involve what might be called a phasing arrangement to commence on 1 July of this year. As a result of that consideration the Government has decided that there will be no alterations at all to the arrangements that were outlined last year by my predecessor. So the arrangements detailed in that statement will stand. The 40 per cent rate will remain applicable to plant ordered between 1 January 1976 and 30 June 1978 and first used no later than 30 June 1 979. The 20 per cent rate will remain applicable to plant ordered between 1 January 1976 and 30 June 1985 and first used between 1 July 1979 and 30 June 1986.I point out in that context that those dates reflect a decision taken by the Government subsequent to the introduction of the investment allowance to extend the 20 per cent phasing period by a further period of two years. The Government believes that this allowance has been a generous one and that it has made a major contribution, but in all the circumstances it has reached a firm and final decision that the existing arrangements will remain and there will be no extensions of them. 
I do not propose to speculate on what may or not have been said in exchanges between Vice-President Mondale and the Prime Minister or any other Ministers during the VicePresident's visit to Australia, but I will respond to the implication in the question of the Leader of the Opposition, that is, the oft-repeated implication that there is in Australia some trade-off which can be obtained between inflation and unemployment. It is a myth that the honourable gentleman has persisted with for a long period of time. It is a myth that the present Government rejects completely. The basis of our economic policy is to bring about a lasting reduction in inflation and thus provide the only sound basis for a sustained and lasting economic recovery. The honourable gentleman thrashes around trying to find justification in statements that are made by international economic bodies for the criticisms that he makes of Australia's economic policies, yet when a body with the credit of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development produces a report which endorses in very substantial terms the wisdom of the economic policies being followed by the Government he and his colleagues try to denigrate its integrity. This Government does not accept that one can trade-off unemployment and inflation. It is a cruel deception of those who are unemployed to pretend that one can. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Australian Rural Bank Act 1977. That Act, which received the royal assent on 10 November last year, provides the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of a rural bank. The Bill amends the legislation in two respects.  (Quorum formed).  The first is to change the name of the new institution from 'Australian 
Rural Bank' to 'Primary Industry Bank of Australia'. This is the effect of clauses 3 through 7 and 9 and 10 of the Bill. The Government has decided to propose a change in the name in the light of the view of the New South Wales Government authorities that the name at present provided for could be confused with or mistaken for that of the Rural Bank of New South Wales which has become widely known throughout that state simply as the 'Rural Bank'. A somewhat similar position applies with respect to the Rural and Industries Bank of Western Australia. 
The second change is effected by clause 8 of the Bill, which amends section 7 of the Act. That section at present provides that the Commonwealth may make grants or loans to the bank on terms and conditions determined by the Treasurer. The amendment retains the power for the Treasurer to determine the terms and conditions of any financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth, but in addition requires the terms and conditions to be agreed with the bank. The requirement for agreement by the bank is consistent with comparable provisions in the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959, the Reserve Bank Act 1959 and the Banks (Housing Loans) Act 1974 and is also consistent with the cooperative nature of the whole venture. I should reassure honourable members that there is no change in the objectives which the new bank is intended to achieve. 
Since the legislation came into effect last year work has been proceeding as rapidly as possible towards establishment of the Bank. I refer to such matters as the drafting of the memorandum and articles of association of the company, the location of premises, the purchase of facilities and equipment, the establishment of accounting systems, the selection of personnel and so on. I record the Government's appreciation of the energetic way in which these and associated matters have been pursued by the representatives of the major trading banks. Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1977-78, which is at present before the Parliament, provides for the appropriation of an amount of $625,000 to finance the Commonwealth equity contribution to the Bank authorised by section 6 of the Act. This is based on a total initial capital for the Bank of $5,625,000 to be contributed in nine equal amounts by each of the seven major trading banks, the State banks together and the Commonwealth. 
It is also proposed that representatives of each of the seven major trading banks and one representative of the State banks be nominated as directors of the Bank's board. In addition, under the terms of the Act itself, I will be designating a  chairman,  a Commonwealth Government representative and two primary producer representatives. I will be announcing the names of these directors as soon as practicable. 
The House will appreciate that aspects of the Bank's operations- its lending policies, interest rates and so on- will not be determined until after the board has been established and relevant consultations have been held with the Commonwealth. The precise range and types of lenders, in addition to the participating banks, to be granted access to the refinancing facilities of the Bank have also not yet been determined but I reaffirm that it is the Government's intention that there be wide participation. In particular, it is envisaged that the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia will be able to refinance loans to primary producers through the new Bank. 
Considerable work remains to be done, and there are various formalities under the Act and in connection with the registration of the company that can be completed only when the legislation that I am now proposing comes into effect. I am not in a position to be precise as to timing, but I expect the Bank to be established around midyear, with lending operations necessarily commencing a little after establishment. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As stated in the recent Commonwealth Submission to the National Wage Case the Government's view is that expansion of employment may well gather sufficient momentum to bring about a stabilisation and then a gradual reduction in the underlying level of unemployment as 1978 progresses. 
Seasonally adjusted employment figures are published by the Statistician. 
The Statistician is keeping the matter of seasonal adjustment of the survey unemployment series under review. I refer the honourable member to the Statistician's latest release on survey unemployment for a discussion of the problems in the seasonal adjustment of the series. 
Attorney-General's Department; Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 271) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Treasury Central 
1 ) Expenditure by the Central Office on advertising and services during the respective periods was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1 976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures are made available to relevant areas of government; 
This information is not available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume the honourable member is referring to the Queensland Government Arts Complex. I have been advised that this is a State project and that no Commonwealth funds have been provided for its construction. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Information not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following are companies which were carrying on insurance business at 1 August 1974 and have subsequently been refused an authority under the Insurance Act 1973 to carry on insurance business: 
* Accident Insurance Mutual Limited 
Atlantic Underwriters Pty Limited 
The Bell Insurance Co Pty Ltd 
J &amp; T Gun Insurers Proprietary Limited 
Institute of Mercantile Agents Limited 
Mill Insurance Company Limited 
Saltergate Insurance Pty Limited 
Victorian Wheatgrowers Corporation Limited- (Trad  ing as Wheatgrowers and General Insurance Company). 
* Accident Insurance Mutual Limited was refused an authority to carry on insurance business. It subsequently reapplied and was authorised under section 23 of the Act on 19 January 1977. The company was not entitled to conduct business during the period of the refusal. 
The following are companies which were not carrying on insurance business as at 1 August 1974 and have applied for an authority under the Act to carry on insurance business: 
All States Insurance Company Pty Limited 
Ansvar Australia Insurance Limited 
Appalachian Insurance Company 
Assicurazioni Generali SpA 
Australian American Assurance Company Limited 
Bishopsgate Insurance Australia Ltd formerly The Steadfast Insurance Company Limited 
Canberra Insurance Company Proprietary Limited 
The Chiyoda Fire &amp; Marine Insurance Company 
Limited 
DJ's Finance Insurance Limited 
The Eastern United Assurance Corporation Limited 
English &amp; American Insurance Company Limited 
The Exchange Insurance Limited 
FM Insurance Company Limited 
General Surety &amp; Guarantee Co Limited 
Kemper Insurance Company Limited 
Mutual Acceptance (Insurance ) Limited 
Norwich Winterthur Insurance Australia Limited 
Palmdale-AGCI Limited 
RACV General Insurance Pty Ltd 
Royal Insurance Australia Limited 
The Security and General Reinsurance Company Limited 
Sentry (UK) Insurance Company Limited 
Service Extension Insurance Pty Ltd 
Sphere Insurance Company Limited 
Storebrand International Reinsurance Company of 
Australia Pty Limited 
Unione Italiana de Riassicurazione 
The Western Australian Insurance Company Limited. 
Of the companies listed in (2) above, All States Insurance Company Pty Limited was refused an authority under the Act to carry on insurance business and the following have been granted an authority: 
Ansvar Australia Insurance Limited 
Appalachian Insurance Company 
Australian American Assurance Company Limited 
Bishopsgate Insurance Australia Ltd formerly The Steadfast Insurance Company Limited 
Canberra Insurance Company Proprietary Limited 
The Chiyoda Fire &amp; Marine Insurance Company Limited 
The Eastern United Assurance Corporation Limited 
English &amp; American Insurance Company Limited 
FM Insurance Company Limited 
Kemper Insurance Company Limited 
Mutual Acceptance (Insurance) Limited 
Norwich Winterthur Insurance Australia Limited 
Palmdale-AGCI Limited 
RACV General Insurance Pty Ltd 
Royal Insurance Australia Limited 
The Security and General Reinsurance Company 
Limited 
Sentry (UK) Insurance Company Ltd 
Service Extension Insurance Pty Ltd 
Sphere Insurance Company Limited 
Storebrand International Reinsurance Company of Australia Pty Limited 
Unione Italiana de Riassicurazione. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since July 1974 the range of rates charged by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank for advances to statutory rural marketing authorities has been 9.3-10.0 per cent per annum. The range of rates prior to that was 7.0-7.2S per cent per annum; that range applied from September 1973. 
) Representations on this matter have been made by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to the Minister for Primary Industry, who has referred them to me. I expect to be sending a reply shortly. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Treasury provides the  chairman  of a working party that has been established to report generally on the matter of a deposits insurance scheme. 
The working party was constituted on 17 February 1978. 
While no specific date has been set for the working party to report, it can be expected to report at the earliest date consistent with full discussion and consultation with officers of the State Governments and financial institutions. 
The question of Proclamation of Part IV of the Financial Corporations Act is not encompassed within the working party's task. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Work is proceeding in accordance with the arrangements announced in Parliament on 8 December 1976 by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer,  Mr Eric  Robinson. The Technical Committee established to undertake relevant technical examinations has recently completed a report and the Working Party, which is co-ordinating work and policy advice on this matter, is in the process of assessing that report. A Mitigation Committee has also been established to provide advice on appropriate mitigation policies directed at improving natural hazard risks. The Mitigation Committee, which includes State and local government representatives in view of their significant responsibilities in this field, is in the early stages of operation and it will be some time before the first results of that Committee 's work will be available. 
At this stage it is not possible to provide an indication as to when the Government will be in a position to announce firm decisions. I should stress that the matter is a highly complex one. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts of documentary letters of credit established by the major trading banks on behalf of Australian importers between 1969-70 and 1976-77 are: 
-I inform the honourable member for Tangney and the House that there is no such proposal currently before the Government and I am unaware of the reasons for such a rumour gathering force in the community. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Government's announced program for the development of self-government in the Northern Territory includes the transfer to the proposed Northern Territory Government of the function of levying pay-roll tax on wages related to that Territory from 1 July 1978. For some years, payroll tax on such wages, together with wages related to the Australian Capital Territory, has been collected by the Commonwealth under the terms of the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act 1971. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend that Act to render it inoperative in relation to wages related to the Northern Territory that become payable on or after 1 July 1978, thus leaving the way open for the proposed Northern Territory Government to levy its own pay-roll tax on such wages. As a consequence of the contemplated amendments, employers will be liable for tax under the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act on wages payable on or after 1 July 1978 only where the wages are paid or payable in respect of services rendered wholly in the Australian Capital Territory, no matter where they are paid, or where the wages are paid or payable in that Territory in respect of services which are not rendered wholly within the Northern Territory or one of the States. 
Accordingly, employers will not be liable for Commonwealth pay-roll tax on wages payable on or after 1 July 1 978 where they are paid or payable in respect of services rendered wholly in the Northern Territory or where they are paid or payable in that Territory in respect of services rendered elsewhere unless the services are rendered wholly in the Australian Capital Territory. Explanations of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer you to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 468  Hansard,  4 April 1 978, page 978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detailed statistics that would enable precise estimates to be made on these lines are not available, but a broad dissection of the estimated $100m cost in respect of the current investment allowance in 1 975-76 income year would suggest that the aggregate cost attributable to these industries probably did not exceed $2m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated cost of the investment allowance which applied to plant and equipment ordered after 1 January 1976 was $100m in respect of the 1975-76 income year. The cost in respect of plant purchased and installed in 1976-77 will not be known until all of the relevant assessments have been made, but on the information so far available the estimated cost is put at $325m 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of taxable personal income taxpayers in New South Wales residing outside the major metropolitan complex of Newcastle, Sydney and Wollongong is estimated at approximately 450,000. 
The cost to income tax revenue of providing a 2Vi per cent rebate to these taxpayers is estimated at approximately $ 13m per annum. 
Relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia are: 
Section 5 1 -The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: 
Taxation, but so as not to discriminate between States or parts of States. 
Section 99- The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce, or revenue, give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of Finance- Central Office 
1 ) (a) 3 full-time, (b) 1 part-time. 
The Department of Finance was created on 7 December 1976. For the remainder of 1976-77 the Department provided a tea service to both the Department of Finance and the Department of the Treasury. The Central Office salary cost shown below is consequently the cost for tea attendant salaries for both Departments for the period 7 December 1 976 to 30 June 1 977. (The costs shown below for other offices' are, however, for the whole of 1976-77). (i) $26,166. (ii) Nil. Costs incurred in the supplyof consumable and non-consumable items are the responsibility of a Tea Club which is financed by contributions by officers who make use of the tea service. 
Other Offices 
Royal Australian Mint 
1 ) (a) None full-time; (b) 6 part-time. 
(i) $ 14,968. (ii) Nil. Patrons pay individually and their subscriptions are taken by the Cafeteria Trust which provides the Service. 
Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office 
1 ) (a) 1 full-time; (b) none part-time. 
(i) $6,742. (ii) $1,295, in respect of maintenance of vending machines and provision of paper cups. Other costs were covered by the takings from the machine. 
Office of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust 
1 ) (a) None full-time; (b) 1 part-time. 
(i) $5,028. (ii) Nil. All costs are met by staff contributions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of taxable individuals who were not assessed for health insurance levy in respect of 1976-77 income year and whose assessments issued to 28 April 1978 is 3,542,3 1 6. The great majority of these taxpayers would have been exempt because they were adequately covered by private health insurance, but the number includes other taxpayers who are not liable to levy as pensioner medical card holders or members of the defence forces or for other reasons. 
The total number of taxable individuals who were liable for the levy for only part of the year and whose assessements issued to 28 April 1978 was about 200,000. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Rebates for health insurance contributions were discontinued as from the introduction of the health insurance levy on 1 October 1976, since payment of private health insurance contributions exempt a taxpayer from payment of the levy. To have also allowed a concessional rebate for the contributions would have resulted in a further benefit and placed a taxpayer contributing to a private fund at an advantage in comparison with a taxpayer who paid the health insurance levy. The saving to income tax revenue in 1 977-78 due to the abolition of rebates in respect of health insurance contributions paid on and after 1 October 1976 is estimated at approximately $50m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a result of changes announced in the 1976-77 Budget, expenditure on exploration for petroleum, both onshore and off-shore, is deductible against assessable income from any source. The deduction is available  to  both resident and non-resident companies. A further taxation incentive for petroleum exploration in off-shore areas of Australia was announced by the Deputy Prime Minister on 24 August 1 977 and was mentioned in the 1977-78 Budget Speech. This further incentive is in the form of a rebate to subscribers of capital to companies holding registered interests in permits or licences under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Those companies, whether overseas or Australian companies, will be able to lodge declarations with the Commissioner of Taxation forgoing the right to deductions to which they would be entitled for petroleum exploration and development in order to confer rebates on both corporate and non-corporate and resident and non-resident shareholders. Legislation to implement the shareholder rebate scheme is contained in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1978 which was introduced into the Parliament on 7 April 1978. 
Funds lent by an overseas partner to an Australian partner in an oil exploration venture conducted by the partnership, which are expended by the partnership on oil exploration, would be deductible in calculating the net income of the partnership for tax purposes. In the case of an exploration joint venture that does not constitute a partnership for tax purposes, and is therefore not assessed as such, loan moneys received by an Australian resident participant from a foreign participant and expended by the former on oil exploration would be deductible from the assessable income of that taxpayer. Of course, as I have indicated in ( 1 ) above, direct expenditure of these funds by an overseas resident on oil exploration would be deductible from the Austraiian assessable income of that enterprise. 
The report in the  Australian  of 9 March 1978 appears to refer to the incentive announced in the 1976-77 Budget Speech and not to the shareholder rebate scheme mentioned in the 1977-78 Budget Speech. If so, the article is incorrect in suggesting that immediate deductibility of petroleum exploration expenditure against income from any source is restricted to expenditure on off-shore exploration. Overseas interests that do not derive income in Australia may not be able to benefit by way of immediate deductions for oil exploration expenditure. In these circumstances it may be arranged that the overseas interests provide loan funds to Australian resident participants who are in a position to benefit from the deductions against other Australian income. 
A great deal of exploration and development expenditure on petroleum and general mining is financed by loan funds from overseas and other sources. The loans are, of course, repayable and expenditure out of them is incurred by the Australian borrower. In these circumstances deductions for the expenditure are in accordance with the policy underlying the special tax provisions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attached table shows, for each of the years 1957-58 to 1976-77,the following components of the current account of the Australian balance of payments: 
imports f.o.b.; 
exports f.o.b.; and 
invisible credits and invisible debits. 
The table also shows, for each year, the amounts paid overseas in respect of (a) net marine insurance and (c) freight on imports. Storage charges (b) are not separately available. Some storage charges may be included in the figures for freight. However storage charges incurred after goods are landed in Australia would not usually be reflected in the balance of payments and those incurred overseas would usually be included in the value of imports f.o.b. 
Freight on imports paid to non-resident carriers has represented the following proportion of total invisible debits in each of the last five years: 1972-73-14.2 per cent; 1973-74-17.6 per cent; 1974-75-19.7 per cent; 1975-76-16.8 per cent; and 1976-77-19.5 percent. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The income tax payable by a taxpayer with a dependent spouse and two children and having a taxable income in 1977-78 equal to 52 times the December quarter 1977 average weekly earnings (seasonally adjusted) would be equal to approximately 16.5 per cent of that taxable income. The tax payable, reduced by family allowances in respect of the 2 children, would be equal to approximately 12.4 per cent of the taxpayer's taxable income. The tax calculations from which these percentages were derived do not take account of any deductions allowable for union dues, housing loan interest or gifts and they assume that the taxpayer's allowable rebatable expenditure does not exceed $ 1 590. 
The corresponding percentages for a taxpayer with a dependent spouse and 2 children and having a taxable income equivalent to  Vh  times average weekly earnings are 34.2 percent and 32.5 percent. 
I can assure the honourable member for Kalgoorlie that the Government does support the effective administration and implementation of the Income Tax Assessment Act in all its respects and certainly in a practical, realistic and common-sense manner. A number of honourable members have raised with me the question of the application or the enforcement of section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act which, as I think many honourable members will know, has been in the Act for a great number of years. Action being taken by the Taxation Office at the present time should not be regarded as action taken other than in the normal course of the administration, monitoring and enforcement of the Act and should not be construed as a result of any specific direction or invitation from the Government that certain matters should be undertaken with greater zeal and greater vigour. 
The administration of the Income Tax Assessment Act has always been and will remain, so far as its particularity is concerned, a matter for the Commissioner of Taxation and his officers and not a matter which is the subject of ministerial or government intervention in respect of particular items. The honourable member raises the question of what discounting factors apply in respect of remote areas. I can inform him that there are a considerable number of discounting factors. I will not weary the House with all of them, but they include making allowance for any onerous conditions which might attach to the occupancy of particular premises, such as the need to be available during irregular hours to look after the premises. I can also inform the honourable gentleman that in assessing values, the Commissioner of Taxation takes account of regional disabilities to which people are subjected, and that assessments of values made by the Commissioner of Taxation are not final. It is only through administrative convenience that the Commissioner has adopted the practice of assessing various groups in various parts of the community. Each individual taxpayer has the capacity to object in the normal fashion to assessments of value made by the Commissioner of Taxation. 
I can certainly understand the interest of the honourable gentleman in the matter. The purpose of the section is to ensure equity of treatment of taxpayers because in most cases taxpayers do not receive any accommodation subsidy in terms of their salary and benefits. But in other cases they do. In ordinary equity, it is only natural that a section such as this one should be included  in  the Income Tax  Assessment Act.  The honourable gentleman asks whether the Government will give consideration to some revision and updating of the zone allowances. I can inform the honourable gentleman that in accordance with not unknown practice I have arranged for these matters to be listed for consideration in the context of the forthcoming Budget. 
-In asking that question, the Leader of the Opposition exhibits total misunderstanding of my responsibilities in respect of the administration of the taxation Acts. Of course, I have not been apprised of the details of a particular taxpayer's financial affairs. I hope every member of this House would believe very strongly in the preservation of the secrecy provisions of the taxation Acts. I am astonished that somebody who once had ministerial responsibility in this area should ask such a question. The Leader of the Opposition asked me whether, in respect of my responsibilities for the administration of the Taxation Act, information regarding an individual taxpayer had come into my hands. The answer is no. I will investigate the other parts of the honourable gentleman's question to see whether any appropriate response consistent with my responsibilities and powers can be given. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Finance was created on 7 December 1976. Expenditure by the Department on advertising during the period 7 December 1976 to 30 June 1977 was $2,012, and during the period 1 July 1977 to 13 April 1978 it was $10,730. 
All of the abovementioned expenditure was in respect of staff recruitment advertising. 
Central Office, 304.2.06 (Incidental and other Expenditure); Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office, 306.2.05 (Incidental and other Expenditure); Office of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust, 308.2.06 (Incidental and other Expenditure). 
and (5) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been no substantial change in the details provided by the then Treasurer in response to the honourable member's question (No. 1349) asked in the Thirtieth Parliament  (Hansard,  8 November 1 977, pages 3 1 66-9 ). 
If I may take the last part of the question first, I would say to the honourable member, as I said to the Leader of the Opposition when he asked a like question last week, that in my ministerial capacity I do not have access to the affairs of individual taxpayers, nor do I want such access. If the honourable member imagines that I am going to deviate from the attitude because he asks questions like that, he is mistaken. Nor is it part of my function as Minister responsible for the Income Tax Assessment Act to give interpretations on matters of law to this House. The question of how the Income Tax Assessment Act affects individuals is a matter for individuals to obtain advice on from their own taxation advisers and a matter for determination by the Commissioner of Taxation. It is not my function to give expressions of opinion on the law. I have already given, in answer to questions asked on this side of the House, an explanation of the scope of section 26 (e) and the reason why it is in the Income Tax Assessment Act. I explained to one of the honourable member's colleagues from Western Australia on this side of the House the generality of that section so far as remote areas of Australia are concerned. I repeat that the words in section 26 (e) cover a number of items- I cannot recall all of them without looking at the section again- including, I think, some of the items to which the honourable member referred. The question of their application in individual cases is a matter of law and I again say that I do not intend to get into a discussion in this House on the position of individual taxpayers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provision to farmers of duplicate Agricultural Census forms costs approximately $20,000 per year. As part of ABS efforts to reduce expenditure, duplicate census forms were not sent to Victorian farmers this year in order to assess the desirability or otherwise of abandoning or retaining duplicate forms in the Agricultural Census throughout Australia next year. 
While savings to be made by not supplying duplicate forms are considerable, a final decision will be made only after careful consideration of the outcome of the trial in Victoria. 
Special Session of the General Assembly on Disarmament (Question No. 1163) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) the 1977-78 Budget Speech presented the Government's expectation that it would be appropriate for monetary growth in 1977-78 to be 'somewhat less than in 1976-77'. The expected growth in the volume of money broadly defined, M3, over the course of 1977-78 was then seen to be in the range of 8-10 per cent. It was of course noted that 'that range may change as circumstances unfold '. 
One respect in which circumstances have been unfolding is that there is now clearly in prospect in 1 977-78 a lower inflation rate than could have been confidently predicted at Budget time. 
Particularly against that background, monetary growth to date during 1 977-78 has been broadly consistent with policy requirements and is expected to remain so. 
I can confirm that the Government will be proceeding with the introduction of a branch profits tax as foreshadowed in the statement made by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer in November of last year. The purpose of the tax is to give broad equality of treatment as between companies which operate in Australia through subsidiaries and companies which operate as branches. Since the statement was made by my colleague in November of last year the Government has given detailed consideration to the form that the branch profits tax should take. It has received a number of representations from interested parties. 
The current intention is to introduce the legislation dealing with the branch profits tax before the House rises but not for the purpose of passage during this session. There will therefore be an opportunity for those interested in the legislation and those affected by it to consider the terms of the legislation, and the Government naturally will give further consideration to representations that might be made about the detail and the mechanics of the tax. I can inform the House of the firm decision of the Government in principle to proceed with the branch profits tax upon the basis that there should be broad equality - 
The current intention is to introduce but not to pass the legislation during this session. I simply confirm to the House that we will be proceeding with the tax upon the basis that there should be broad equality of treatment between companies operating through subsidiaries and companies operating as branches. 
My attention has been drawn to the remarks to which the honourable gentleman referred. I think it is fair to say that there is a fair range of views as to the impact of the existing legislation and guidelines so far as the process of Australianisation of companies is concerned. I should inform the honourable gentleman that, consistent with its view that legislation and guidelines in the foreign investment area should be kept under constant review to ensure that anomalies and disabilities in that legislation are removed, the Government has had under consideration some possible relaxation of the foreign investment guidelines but not the foreign takeovers legislation. This relaxation would be designed to remove some of the disabilities that might exist for companies in which there is some local shareholding. There is a view that some companies in which there is a majority overseas shareholding as well as a not insignificant local shareholding are disadvantaged under the existing foreign investment guidelines. As a result some proposals were developed by the Government to deal with that general area. Those proposals were the subject of discussions involving the Acting Prime Minister and me and a representative group of companies yesterday and the matter is the subject of further consideration by the Government. 
I should inform the honourable gentleman and the House that the purpose of the Government 's deliberations in this area is to relax but not to undermine in any way the essential features of the Government's foreign investment policy. We have in mind the removal of possible anomalies and possible disincentives, whilst recognising the importance of the principles on which our foreign investment policy is based. Turning to the question of the national interest so far as the operation of the foreign investment policy is concerned, I remind the honourable gentleman that my predecessor outlined in 1976 the details of the Government's foreign investment policy. In that statement there were a large number of principles which the Treasurer is required to take into account in reaching a decision in respect of recommendations made to him by the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
Beyond referring the honourable gentleman to the details of that statement, I can only say that one has to make a judgment on the circumstances of each case. The honourable gentleman asked me what the Foreign Takeovers Act says about control. I refer him to the specific provisions of the Act. Broadly speakuig, control under that legislation involves the capacity to determine the major policy decisions of a company. The question of whether control passes in a particular situation is a matter which has to be determined in accordance with the particular circumstances. 
-I acknowledge that I did give that undertaking. I accept that I probably did so on about 2 May. I apologise to the honourable gentleman for the fact that he has not had a response by now. I shall see that he gets one today. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The broad purpose of this Bill is to enable each State, if it so chooses, to legislate to increase its revenue from personal income tax or to give- at a cost to the State- a rebate on personal income tax to residents in the State. The Bill is basically the same as the Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Bill 1977 which, as honourable members will recall, was introduced into the Parliament late in the 1977 autumn sittings. The Government, however, did not seek passage of the Bill in those sittings, its intention being to allow time for reflection and informed debate and, in particular, for consideration of the Bill by the State governments. The 1977 Bill subsequently lapsed with the dissolution of Parliament on 10 November 1977. 
The Government has given the States considerable opportunity to comment on the 1977 Bill and, after careful consideration, has agreed to certain  changes being  made to the Bill to meet the points raised by the Premiers. This Bill also differs from the previous Bill in that a number of minor technical and machinery improvements have been made. 
The Government regards this Bill as an important development in Commonwealth-State relations. The Bill completes the legislative framework of the tax sharing arrangements which are a central element of the Government's federalism policy- a policy aimed at restoring a proper distribution of powers and functions between the federal, State and local spheres of government, with governments more responsive to the needs and preferences of the community. 
The Government believes that this approach offers the best protection against concentration of power in Canberra. 
Stage I of the income tax sharing arrangements established in legislation passed in 1976 provided for the States to receive 33.6 per cent of personal income tax collections. In this connection, honourable members will recall that the House recently passed an amendment Bill which is currently in the other place and which provides for the States to receive a fixed amount of $4,336. lm in 1977-78 and for their tax share from 1978-79 onwards to be 39.87 per cent of the preceding year's collections. These arrangements have replaced the old system of handouts with one in which the concept is the sharing of tax revenues. Under the present Government, the States have received what they have been seeking for many years- a share of income tax revenues. 
Stage 1 of the tax sharing arrangements was an important step towards more responsible government in Australia and the restoration of a proper balance in our federal system. The present Bill will enable the implementation of stage 2 of the tax sharing arrangements, and thus represents a further major step towards this objective. Under these proposed Stage 2 arrangements each State will be able at its option to vary, by its own decision, its total share of income tax collections. The States will thus have more effective control of their own revenues as well as their expenditures. Because responsibilities for revenue raising and spending will be more clearly recognised by the electors, there will be a greater incentive towards better housekeeping. However, it would seem from recent comments by some Premiers that some States are unwilling to accept a greater share of responsibility for raising the money they spend. All the Commonwealth can do, and is seeking to do, is to provide the necessary framework to enable the States to help themselves. The next step is up to the States. 
A broad framework for Stage 2 of the tax sharing arrangements- the subject of the present Bill- was evolved and agreed during the three Premiers' Conferences in 1976 and recorded in the points of understanding set out in Budget Paper No. 7. The Stage 2 arrangements have also been the subject of joint CommonwealthState officers' reports including a report which was considered at the Premiers' Conference in April 1977. At that Conference there was broad agreement on the following objectives which have been followed in the draft Bill: 
First, there should be complete uniformity as between the States in all respects other than rates of any surcharges or rebates; 
Secondly, the arrangements should be free of any significant constitutional or other legal doubt; 
Thirdly, the scheme should be as simple and inexpensive to administer as practicable consistent wtih legal requirements and the other broad objectives being followed; 
Fourthly, the arrangements should impose the least inconvenience practicable on taxpayers and employers; and 
Fifthly, the arrangements should be such as to avoid creating avenues for tax avoidance or evasion. 
It was also agreed at the April 1977 Premiers' Conference that Commonwealth officers would consult with officers of Victoria and Western Australia regarding the Commonwealth's Stage 2 legislation and I record the Commonwealth's appreciation of the co-operation of the States. 
Before turning to the detailed provisions of the Bill I wish to deal with the constant assertions of our political opponents that the Stage 2 arrangements amount to some form of 'double taxation'. The first point to be made, of course, is that this legislation puts absolutely no compulsion on the States. It merely provides the framework to enable the States, as they may choose, to pick up taxing or rebating options. Only when a State chooses to impose a tax or to allow a rebate, and legislates accordingly, will this legislation be brought into use. Some Premiers, as is well known, have urged the Commonwealth to reduce income tax. The enactment of this legislation will allow those Premiers to reduce income tax in their States. The second important point to be made is that, under this legislation, there will at all times remain one collection and administrative agency. Taxpayers resident in any State will still lodge one annual return of income with the Commissioner of Taxation and will receive a single notice of assessment on which Commonwealth and State components will be shown. 
There will be a single pay as you earn deduction from salaries and wages for Commonwealth and State purposes. In plain terms, there will be no additional forms to fill in. Thirdly, the States Traditionally levy a wide range of taxes and charges. There is nothing new in identifying a tax as a particular State tax. The transfer of payroll tax to the States is a prime example in this area. 
I turn now to the detailed provisions of the Bill. It has four main parts. One part- Part V- gives authority for the Commissioner of Taxation to administer State tax and rebate laws that meet certain specifications set out in another part- Part II of the Bill- and provides for payment to the States of what is collected by the Commonwealth on their behalf. If also deals with a number of miscellaneous matters. 
The other two main parts contain technical and machinery amendments to the Income Tax Assessment  Act  and other Acts. 
Part II of the Bill calls for some comment. In drawing it up we have worked within the framework of principles agreed at successive Premiers ' Conferences and have taken into account wherever practicable suggestions for changes made by the States to the provisions of the previous BDI to which I have referred earlier. In essence Part II of the Bill is directed to ensuring that the objectives of uniform administration are practical and are met. For example, it would be expected that each State would increase or reduce tax only in respect of people who are residents of that State, according to a common definition of 'resident'. In that way, no-one would be liable to tax in more than one State in any one year. Again, in the interests of simplicity, a State that wishes to impose a tax or allow a rebate will need to legislate in such a way that the State law can operate in harmony with the Commonwealth tax law. As a consequence, State tax would be collected through the PA YE and provisional tax systems that are now a settled part of the Commonwealth personal tax system. Tax owing to the Commonwealth and to a State will be collected by the Commonwealth as a single, undivided, sum, with the State being paid its share of what is collected. It is because Commonwealth and State tax will be collected in this ' merged ' way that it is necessary, as set out in clause 79, for an appropriation to be made to enable payment to the States of amounts collected by virtue of State law. 
Finally, the magnitude of the activities of federal, State and local governments should be put in true perspective. In the current financial year, on the basis of Budget estimates, State and local governments will have under their supervision no less than 53 per cent of total public sector outlays in Australia. The approximate percentage break-up is: Federal 47 per cent; State 46 per cent; and local 7 per cent. It is vital to the full understanding of intergovernment relations to appreciate the very significant role of State and local government in public finances. The idea that the two spheres are small and insignificant in the overall economic and social scene is a misconception. The detailed provisions of the Bill are fully explained in a memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a general rule, trading banks may establish import letters of credit on behalf of Australian residents without prior reference to the Reserve Bank except where the documentary letter of credit: 
is established more than six months prior to expected date of shipment of goods to Australia; 
has a validity in excess of twelve months; 
provides for drafts to be drawn before shipment- if more than one month before expected date of arrival of goods in Australia; 
provides for payment later than six months after arrival of goods in Australia; 
is of a revolving nature. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Financial Corporations Act applies to a corporation if its sole or principal business activities in Australia are the borrowing of money and the provision of finance, or if more than 50 per cent of its assets arise from the provision of finance. (There is also provision for the Act to apply to certain corporations engaged in retailing.) 
I am informed that the principal activity of the Cooperative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Limited has been as a meat service works. Therefore, it would not appear that it is a corporation to which the Financial Corporations Act is intended to apply. 
The Government has not given consideration to extending the scope of the Financial Corporations Act beyond the kind of corporations to which the Act presently applies. 
Between September 1972 and June 1974 the Australian Industry Development Corporation made advances to the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Limited totalling $6,300,000. Repayments received by the Corporation prior to 3 1 March 1 978 were $2,053,672. However, as at 31 March 1978 the outstanding balance of debt owing to the Corporation by the Co-operative, including unpaid interest of $1,230,562 and the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on a portion of the debt denominated in US dollars, was $6,395,536, being $95,536 more than the total of the amounts originally advanced. The outstanding balance was repaid in full on 28 April 1 978. 
Tribunals Associated with Department of the Northern Territory (Question No. 723) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistical series is maintained which would provide the information sought by the honourable member. 
There cannot be too much wrong with the economy. 
Having made that statement, I should point out that it is quite impossible to compare international air fares with domestic air fares. The circumstances relating to selection of routes and capacity to fill aircraft to fly on international journeys, compared with the necessity to provide regular scheduled services throughout the whole vast territory of Australia, are quite different. The two types of services therefore cannot be equated. The Government has been conscious of the domestic air fares situation, and the honourable member may know that I initiated a review of domestic air policy. The review body has completed its work and reported to me, and I hope to be able to go to the Government quite shortly on it and to make a statement at an appropriate time about future arrangements on domestic air policy. 
-It is true that the interest rate on the May conversion loan was 9.1 per cent. I tried to check from my House file precisely whether what the honourable member said about the New York loan was correct. My recollection is that the rate is 9. 1 7 per cent. The question whether the description which applied to the earlier loan can be applied to the $US250m loan raising to which he referred, I suppose, is a matter of emphasis, but I can say to the honourable gentleman that, given the circumstances of interest rates in the United States at the time the most recent loan was negotiated, the Government regarded the terms of that loan as being satisfactory, quite reasonable and quite acceptable so far as the competitive market position is concerned. 
I think the honourable gentleman may be aware that there has been some pressure upwards, although not great, on interest rates in the United States in recent times. Given the circumstances and given the other circumstances of the market in which that last loan was raised, I stand by what I said about that in the statement that I issued last week. 
If the Leader of the Opposition seeks reassurance from the Government that the 1 February tax cuts will proceed with respect to the financial year commencing 1 July 1978, 1 give that assurance. If he seeks assurance that the half indexation commitment contained in the last Budget will proceed on 1 July 1978, 1 give that assurance. If he seeks to suggest in his question that there will be certain detriment cases so far as the Government's taxation reforms are concerned, I can inform him that I anticipate making a statement, probably in the course of next week, indicating that the Government will introduce in the Budget session special legislation to cure any detriment case situations that might arise through the operation of half indexation from 1 July. If the Leader of the Opposition is trying to discredit the veracity of the taxation reforms of this Government he has failed. They are significant taxation reforms. In the view of the Government the effect of the taxation reforms, in the forthcoming financial year as in the past financial year, will be to give real assistance and incentive to the general body of wage earners throughout Australia. 
Pursuant to regulation 8A (2) of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) (Superannuation) Regulations made on 30 May 1977 under the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act 1973 I present the report on the operations of the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Board and the Contract Officers (Papua New Guinea) Retirement Benefits Board for the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
Pursuant to section 21 (2) of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Termination Act 1976 I present the report on the general administration and operation of the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Scheme and the Contract Officers Retirement Benefits Scheme for the year ended 30 June 1977. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the superannuation scheme provided under the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1 948. The amendments have regard to suggestions that have been made from time to time by senators and members, and also to the provisions of the various schemes that provide superannuation benefits to members of the States' parliaments. The Bill provides additional retirement benefits for those senators and members who, during their parliamentary career, become Ministers or office holders in the Parliament. All State parliamentary schemes have such a provision. So too did the Commonwealth parliamentary scheme prior to the amendment that was made to it in June 1973. Members will be required to contribute 1 1 te per cent of the additional salary, or allowance in the nature of salary, received as a Minister or office holder. This is in addition to the present contributions of 1 Ite per cent of the parliamentary allowance currently required to be paid under the Act. In broad terms, the retiring allowance otherwise payable on retirement will be increased by the ratio that the parliamentary allowance plus additional salary received bears to the parliamentary allowance payable during the whole of the member's parliamentary service. When the previous ministerial scheme was introduced in 1 964, service as a Minister or office holder prior to the commencement of the scheme was recognised in certain circumstances. This Bill does likewise but also provides that recognition of such service will be subject to the exercise of an option for repayment of contributions previously refunded under the old ministerial scheme and the payment of contributions for service since June 1973. In respect of service after the date of royal assent to this Bill, all existing and future Ministers and office holders will be required to pay the additional contributions. 
The Bill also provides for the discontinuation of the existing Prime Ministerial retiring allowances scheme and for Prime Ministers to contribute in the same way as Ministers and office holders. Appropriate options have been provided for members who have qualified for benefits under the existing Prime Ministerial scheme. Another amendment will enable members to qualify for maximum retirement benefits after completion of 18 years parliamentary service in lieu of the 20 years required under the existing Act. In addition, members' entitlements in future will have regard to days served in excess of a complete year. It is, of course, rare that the completion of a member's service occurs on the anniversary of first appointment. 
Existing members will also be able to qualify for a retiring allowance on completion of 12 years service or service in four parliaments should they voluntarily retire from the Parliament. The present Act requires the member to have served 12 years and to have attained age 45 before becoming entitled to a retiring allowance on voluntary retirement. Unlike the State parliamentary schemes, the existing Commonwealth scheme does not allow a member to commute any part of a retiring allowance. Whereas some State parliamentary schemes provide for 100 per cent commutation, this Bill provides that a member who retires after the date of royal assent to this Bill may elect to commute up to 50 per cent of his or her retiring allowance. Commutation will not, however, affect the rights of the member's widow or widower to an annuity. 
Another amendment provides for the future halving of the level of contributions related to the basic parliamentary allowance after a member has had 18 years parliamentary service. The reduction in contributions, in respect of service after the date of the royal assent, will be from 1 1 te per cent to 5% per cent of the parliamentary allowance payable from time to time. The Bill also provides for the non-cessation of annuities when a widow or widower of a member or a retired member remarries after the Bill receives the royal assent and for the payment of benefits to dependent children where a member or a retired member has died or dies unmarried. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. 
Under the method of calculating average income for the purpose of determining rates of tax payable on the taxable income of a primary producer for the year ended -30 June 1977, the amount of taxable income of any year within the average period in excess of $16,000 was disregarded. This meant that the maximum rates under the average arrangements were the general rates applicable to an income of $16,000. 
Only the first $16,000 of taxable income was, however, taxed at the average rates. The amount (if any) of taxable income in excess of $16,000 was taxed at the same rates as it would have borne if it were taxable income of a person to whom the averaging provisions did not apply. 
For the year ended 30 June 1978, two methods of averaging may apply- the one outlined above, or, if it would result in a lower amount of tax, that method in combination with the new method of averaging that was introduced in conjunction with the new system of personal income tax on 1 February 1978. 
Under the new averaging method, the whole of the taxable income is taxed at the average rate applicable to the average income or at the rate applicable to the taxable income, whichever is the less. In calculating average income for this purpose, the whole of the taxable income for each year of the average period is taken into account, not just the first $16,000. 
See (1) and (2). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Borrowing requirements in the public sector arise when outlays exceed receipts and, for the purpose of this answer, are measured by sector deficits as defined by the Australian Statistician. 
The estimate of the Commonwealth (budget and non-budget sectors combined) deficit for 1977-78 published in 1977-78 Budget Paper No. 10 was $2, 960m. As I have stated on several occasions the budget deficit is likely to exceed the estimate made at budget-time and the total Commonwealth public sector deficit is therefore expected to exceed $2,960m. 
Estimates of the States' (budget and non-budget sectors combined) deficit are compiled by the Statistician on the basis of the State budgets and information provided by the States. These are published in 'Public Authority Finance: Public Authority Estimates' (ABS catalogue number 5501.0). The estimate published for 1977-78 for the States is $2,6 15m. 
and (3) The figures sought are set out in the table below. Further information, including that pertaining to consolidated sectors, can be found in the above publication. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926 I present the audit of accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
I move: 
After paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1), insert the following paragraph: (ba) by inserting after sub-section (2) the following sub-section: "(2a) For the purposes of sub-section (IB) and paragraph (aa) of sub-section (2), every senator whose term of office was 6 years shall, if at the expiration of 3 years after the commencement of that term of office that term of office has not expired, be deemed (in addition to his having ceased to be a senator at the actual expiration of that term of office if he continued in office for the whole of that term) to have at the expiration of that period of 3 years ceased to be a senator by reason of the expiration of that term of office. "; '. 
The purpose of clause 9 is to enable members of the House of Representatives and senators to qualify, in terms of the provisions relating to the period of service required in respect of voluntary retirement, situations for benefits provided under the superannuation scheme. The amendment seeks to enable senators to qualify for what is described as an 'occasion ' in terms of the legislation as it now stands in much the same time as do members of this chamber. This is achieved by equating Senate service of three years with the theoretical three-year term of a member of the House of Representatives. The amendment simply gives senators broad equivalence of treatment with members of the House of Representatives in respect of the voluntary retirement provisions of the legislation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It has been the practice of successive governments not to authorise the expenditure of time and money involved in answering questions, such as this, which seek generalised information on interdepartmental committees. However, if the honourable member wishes to seek information concerning the Department of Finance's involvement in any particular interdepartmental committee, I shall be happy to see if the requested information can be provided. 
Tribunals associated with the Department of Industry and Commerce (Question No. 720) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rate of variation of M3 for each month since 31 December 1 969 is shown in the table set out below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The following changes have taken place in the Index of the trade-weighted value of the Australian Dollar (May 1970 = 100) since December 1975: 
It is a fact, as I think all honourable gentlemen will know, that last year the then Acting Treasurer announced an ongoing borrowing program designed to supplement Australia's international reserves. In February of this year I made a statement on Australia's external position and indicated that if further borrowings were necessary to supplement our international reserves the Government would be prepared to undertake them. Australia's capacity and credit to borrow these substantial sums to supplement our reserves ought to be a matter of satisfaction, rather than of scepticism such as is implied in the honourable gentleman's question. The Government believes strongly that a on-going borrowing program to supplement our reserves is an entirely proper and effective way of conducting our external account. 
-About the only thing that is correct in that question relating to a report on my activities on that occasion is the fact that I did attend an extremely pleasant gathering in Moree as a guest of my very good friend and colleague the Minister for Health. The question of the application of section 26 (e) of the Income Tax Assessment Act was raised during the course of the evening, and to the best of my recollectionthe event occurred some weeks ago- I was asked regarding the operations of section 26 (e) a general question not unlike some of the questions that have been asked by members of this House. I indicated on that occasion that that section had been in the Act for a considerable number of years. 
I expressed some views regarding the application of the section and said that the question of the administration of it was entirely a matter for the Commissioner of Taxation. Beyond that I frankly have no recollection of having said the other things attributed to me by the Leader of the Opposition, and I am unaware as to the basis of his belief that I said those things, particularly as I do not - 
-That was not the question you asked me. 
-by leave- I take this opportunity to inform the House the size of the tax indexation adjustments to income tax rates and rebates for 1978-79. The relevant regulations are being gazetted today. Tax indexation was introduced by the present Government in the 1976-77 income year, so that increases in income as a result of inflation would not push taxpayers into higher tax brackets. Indexation was applied again in 1977-78 and this will be its third successive year. It was, and remains, one of the most significant changes ever made to the Australian personal income tax system and has been of major benefit to taxpayers. 
The latest indexation adjustment confers still further benefits. It will increase the rebate for a spouse, a housekeeper or a daughterhousekeeper from $555 to $597, an additional tax saving of $42. The rebate for a sole parent will be indexed from $388 in 1 977-78 to $4 1 7 for 1978-79. Other rebates will also rise. The 1978-79 rebate for an invalid relative will be $270, previously $251, and for a parent or parent-in-law $539, previously $501. In addition, the zone rebate for people who live in isolated areas and have dependent children will be increased because allowances for the children that are taken into account in calculating the rebate are to be indexed from the previous levels of $251 and $189 to $270 and $203. 
I turn now to the tax scale itself. Here, too, indexation will reduce tax in 1978-79 below what it would have been in the absence of indexation. Every taxpayer will benefit, because the amount of taxable income to which the zero rate of tax applies will rise from $3,750 to $3,893. The range of taxable income to which the standard rate of 32 per cent applies will similarly be lengthened, so that that rate will apply on income up to $16,608, instead of $16,000. And the 46 per cent rate will run to $33,2 1 6, previously $32,000. 
I illustrate how indexation of the tax scale will benefit people, by reference to a person without dependants with a taxable income of $10,000. The tax payable by such a person in 1978-79 will be $1,954.24, a saving of $45.76 compared with the tax that would have been payable but for indexation, namely, $2,000, and a saving of $193.06 compared with the tax that would have been payable under the rates of tax that applied on 1 July 1977, namely, $2,147.30. 
The indexation factor for 1978-79 is derived by adjusting the movement in the average level of the consumer price index for the 12 months ended 31 March 1978 over the level for the 12 months ended 31 March 1977. Because of the Government's success in curbing inflation, the movement in the consumer price index over these periods was only 10.9 per cent. The basic 1 978-79 tax indexation factor of 1 .076, that is, an increase of 7.6 per cent, is derived from this movement by netting out the effects, included in the 10.9 per cent movement, of increases in indirect taxes, the health care changes and exchange rate adjustment made in the December quarter of 1976. 
It was announced when the standard rate system was introduced that 'half indexation' would apply to rates of personal income tax for the 1978-79 income year. In accordance with this, the indexation of the tax scale for 1978-79 reflects an indexation factor of 1.038. At that time it was also announced that measures would be taken to ensure that no taxpayer would pay more tax in 1978-79 under half indexation of the standard rate system than would have been payable under full indexation of the previous scale. 
With the adoption of a 7.6 per cent basic adjustment only a limited number of taxpayers, namely those whose 1978-79 taxable incomes fall in the range $6,600 to $6,978, would, if nothing were done to prevent it, be slightly worse off by amounts ranging from one cent to $7.06, as a result of half indexation. Legislation will be introduced in the Budget sittings to provide for a rebate to be granted to remove the detriment that otherwise would be suffered by taxpayers in this income range. The rebate will be available in respect of any 1978-79 assessments made before the Budget. 
I have seen those reports. I have nothing to add to the answer I gave on this subject in the House last week. 
-Would the honourable gentleman like me to answer the question? He will have his opportunity to answer questions when he is on this side of the House. I will deal with the honourable gentleman's question. To the extent to which inflation is moderated, naturally the discount factor involved will be moderated. I point out to the honourable gentleman and to the House that the start point of the indexation factor for taxation as from 1 July is 10.9 per cent, which represents the average level of the consumer price index for the 12 months ended 31 March 1978 over the level for the 12 months ended 31 March 1977. By any measure, particularly having regard to current levels of inflation, that is a particularly generous start point, because the increase in the consumer price index for the year ended 31 March 1978 was only 8.2 percent. 
So if one is looking at current levels of inflationit is not unreasonable to do that, particularly having regard to the fact that we are talking about the indexation of taxation from 1 July 1978- one can see that an indexation factor related to the average level of the CPI for the 12 months ended 31 March 1978 over the same for the 12 months ended 31 March 1977 is not ungenerous. The 7.6 per cent indexation factor, which was announced last week, is derived from the 10.9 per cent by netting out the effects of, firstly, the increase in indirect taxes of 0. 1 per cent; secondly, the increase in health care charges in 1976 of 1.6 per cent; and, thirdly, the increase following the exchange rate adjustments in December 1976 of 1.6 per cent. As was announced by my predecessor almost 12 months ago in the Budget Speech of 1 977, from 1 July this year we will be applying half indexation only. Nothing was concealed there. There was nothing underhand about that. My predecessor said that in the Budget Speech of last year. The reason we said that in the Budget Speech last year was that a very major benefit was derived from the 1 February tax cuts. We said at that time that the revenue for this coming financial year simply could not afford the full effects of the 1 February tax cuts plus full tax indexation. 
If anybody on the other side has a quibble- I notice that the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate is talking about 36 per cent indexationabout the generosity of the tax indexation factor let me remind him that the start point is 10.9 per cent which, on any analysis, is certainly not the current rate of inflation. I think it is proper to say that the current level of inflation is much closer to the 8.2 per cent for the 12 months recorded to 3 1 March. When one takes into account the discount factors that have been applied by the Government on this occasion- there is nothing secretive or new about them- one realises that on any measure the announcement that I made last Friday represents a further progress in the Government's policy of taxation reform. I stress to the House again that when inflation is falling it is only natural that indexation benefits or indexation compensation must fall at the same time, because to argue otherwise is to argue that at a time of zero inflation one should have indexation compensation, and that is a palpable nonsense. 
My attention has been drawn to statements made by  Mr Wran  at the weekend. I would like to say two things about those statements. The first is that it is quite obvious that, with a State election in New South Wales in the breeze,  Mr Wran  is endeavouring once again to revive the bogy-man of double taxation. I say to the House that there have been few charges peddled in the Australian political environment in recent years which are as untrue as the statement peddled by the New South Wales Premier that this Government's federalism policy represents double taxation. I invite his attention and the attention of sceptics on the other side of the House and in the community generally to the terms of the second reading speech at the time of the introduction of that legislation last week. All that legislation does is give to the States the option of choosing one of three courses. Firstly, they can make no change regarding income tax levels in their own States; secondly, they can impose a tax surcharge; or, thirdly, they can give a tax rebate. In no way does the legislation oblige a State to impose additional taxation. All it doesquite consistently with this Government's policy toward the responsibilities of State governmentsis give to individual States greater fiscal flexibility. That is what State Premiers over the years, both Labor and Liberal, have asked for. So, for  Mr Wran  to revive once again the bogy of double taxation is, I believe, stretching the credulity of the New South Wales community beyond bounds. It is not double taxation; it has never been double taxation.  Mr Wran  knows that and he ought to be honest enough, in possibly the lead up to a New South Wales election campaign, to admit that from the outset. The real truth of the matter is-  Mr Wran  inadvertently conceded this over the weekend when he made certain commitments about his own - 
-With pleasure,  Mr Speaker.  In the course of the same speech, the New South Wales Premier made certain commitments about New South Wales taxes and charges. If the New South Wales Premier believes that his State has a capacity to do certain things in that area, that must be the best proof possible of the generosity of the tax-sharing arrangements that he has obtained from the present Federal Government. A State's ability to give taxation concessions ought to be freely acknowledged as being the result of the federalism policies of this Government. 
I can inform the House that it is not the intention of this Government to force or oblige the States to do other than accept the responsibilities of federalism as well as the privileges of federalism. The revenue sharing arrangements which are embraced in stages 1 and 2 of the Government's federalism policy seek to create a situation whereby the States have greater control over the manner in which they arrange their own priorities. Consistent with that, the fixed percentage of income tax collections that the States have received and, indeed, the share of income tax revenue that local government has received have created a situation in which the States and local government can make more decisions in their own right and on their own account. I do not believe that anybody can fairly categorise the financial treatment that the States have received from this Commonwealth Government as being other than very generous when compared with the financial treatment that they would have received if the Whitlam Government's arrangement, even including the betterment factor, had been continued. 
The Government welcomes this opportunity, in the last week of this parliamentary session, to debate the matter of the state of the economy. I listened with some care and attention to what the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  had to say. I was somewhat disappointed that he got himself lost in the rhetoric in which the Opposition is inclined to get lost when talking about the economy, instead of recognising, as I hope all honourable members on both sides of the House recognise, that the further progress which obviously needs to be achieved in solving the economic problems of Australia is not going to be achieved through using simplistic descriptions of alternative economic strategies. 
One of the persistent mistakes which the Opposition has made over the past three or four months- indeed, it is a mistake which is repeated by people in sections of the community who have the habit of commenting regularly on political matters- is to use simplistic labels in describing this Government's approach to the handling of the Australian economy. We are variously described as following a hard line and a restrictionist, deflationary, tight money policy. All these descriptions are designed to paint the picture of a government being absolutely and blindly committed to one particular point of view, to the total exclusion of all other points of view. The truth of the matter is that the Government has for a considerable period followed a policy mix which it believes is the right one for the current conditions of the Australian economy. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand seeks to quote from statements made by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the International Monetary Fund in support of the alternative policies which he urges on the Government. The most recent comprehensive report to come from either of those bodies is the recent OECD survey of the Australian economy. The honourable gentleman would have to concede that that survey certainly was not critical of the general strategy being followed by the Government. It drew attention to the very solid performance that the Government has achieved, particularly in its anti-inflationary stance, and realistically drew attention to the continued problems with which this Government still grapples as a result of policies which had been followed on earlier occasions. I make no apology for the fact that we as a Government have set our sight on defeating inflation as our principal economic responsibility and principal economic objective. We believe that it was the runaway inflation in the early years of the 1 970s which constituted the real cause of the then collapse of the Australian economy. However much historians, economic or otherwise, might try to write their chapters on the early years of the 1970s, they will be forced back to accepting that it was a government's abandonment of an antiinflationary policy which cost this country dearly in terms of unemployment, international respectability as a stable economy and faith in the future of the Australian economy so far as the private sector of this country is concerned. 
Unlike the Opposition, we do believe that there is a link between unemployment and inflation. Unlike the Opposition, we do not believe that, unemployment and inflation can be traded off. Unlike the Opposition, we do believe that we have to have a disciplined wages policy if it is necessary to achieve long term progress so far as unemployment is concerned. It is singularly significant, in my view, that the honourable member for Gellibrand spent probably one-half of his speech talking about the problem of unemployment in Australia without wasting a syllable on wages policy. In other words, we have the alternative economic spokesman of this countrythe Opposition's spokesman on Treasury matters- talking about unemployment in a debate on a matter of public importance relating to the Australian economy, without even mentioning the matter of wages policy. If ever anything demonstrated the continued dilemma of the Australian Labor Party as far as unemployment is concerned it is its deafening silence on the matter of wages policy. The truth is that the Opposition has no wages policy. The truth is that it is endemically incapable of developing a sensible wages policy. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand interjected and inquired what is our wages policy. I shall come to that in just a moment. The fact is that for a quarter of an hour we heard the alternative economic strategy of the Opposition and that half of that speech was devoted to concern about unemployment, but not a word was said about wages policy. In other words, the alternative economic spokesman of this country says that wages policy has nothing whatever to do with unemployment. If ever anybody in an economic context is flying in the face of the economic experience of this country in recent years it is the honourable member for Gellibrand. Anyone who has studied the period when this country entered the threshhold of higher unemployment will know that that directly resulted from the colossal increase in wage levels in this country between 1 972 and 1 975. 
Anyone who reads the recent OECD survey of the Australian economy will find reference to the fact that, compared with other OECD countries for which comparable statistics are kept, Australia's record with respect to the gap between real wages and productivity between 1972 and 1 975 was the worst. So we have a body from whose statements the honourable member for Gellibrand quotes with approval in his remarks stating that one of the serious problems of the Australian economy is the gap between real wages and productivity. In the face of that survey the honourable member for Gellibrand said nothing about wages policy in the context of unemployment. Of course, the Opposition has no policy on wages. It is incapable of developing a coherent strategy on wages policy other than a continued commitment to the concept of 100 per cent wage indexation. From the moment this Government took office in December 1975 it said that Australia could not afford full wage indexation. The Government has not deviated from that principle since it was elected in December 1975. It will not deviate from that principle while that remains the responsible economic course for it to take. 
In all candour I must say to the House that if the policies of the Opposition, the trade union movement and a number of Labor State governments had been followed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, we would have had more unemployment and more inflation in Australia over the past two and a half years than we have had. In the teeth of that, for the Opposition to profess concern about unemployment and to talk about alternative strategies without a syllable of acknowledgement of the significance of wages policy on unemployment is to my mind to go not within a bull's roar of presenting an alternative economic strategy. The Government's policy on wages is well known. Its approach to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is well known. Its concern that the Commission has not taken greater account of the impact of wage increases on employment prospects is well known also. If the alternative policies which have been espoused, not here but elsewhere, had been applied our situation would be worse. 
Over the past two and a half years this Government has followed a mix of policies. It has set itself- very properly in my view- on a course of reducing the level of inflation in the belief that inflation is the principal cause of our economic ills. There can be no doubt, even on the other side of the House, that the Government has had very considerable success in reducing the level of inflation in Australia. We have a situation now where our rate of inflation broadly accords with the average rate of inflation amongst our trading partners. The honourable member for Gellibrand chose some of the less satisfactory indicators in the economy. I suppose that is a very natural thing for an Opposition  speaker  to do in a debate such as this. 
-I think the level of business investment in Australia is pretty important. I think the success the Government had had in reducing the level of inflation is pretty important. Consumer confidence is pretty satisfactory and as a consequence the savings ratio has fallen. I think the fact that retail sales in Australia over the past few months have shown a comfortable increase is also highly significant. Yet the honourable member for Gellibrand suggests that I am not talking about significant indicators. I should have thought that all those indicators are highly significant. This Government has followed a course of restraint where restraint is necessary. It has provided stimulus, particularly to Australian consumers, where that has been necessary. Anyone who has looked at the level and the nature of the income tax relief which this Government has given, both in terms of tax indexation and the restructuring of the rate scale that came into force in February of this year, would have to acknowledge that this Government has been, above all, a government of taxation reform. The Government has provided incentive and stimulus through the taxation system. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand talked about the deficit. 
I have said- in fact I said it first several months ago- that the deficit for the current financial year will be greater than the amount budgeted for. The honourable member says that that is the result of recession and deflation. I say that in a very major way the increase in the size of the deficit is the result of greater success of the Government's economic policy than was foreseen at the time of the last Budget. One of the reasons taxation collections are less than was calculated at the time of the Budget is that inflation has fallen faster than was believed at the time of the Budget. Another reason is that the rate of increase in real wages in the Australian community has not been as great as was forecast at the time of the Budget. A further reason is that the level of import replacement has been greater than was forecast at the time of the Budget. All these things represent indications of the success of the Government's economic strategy. For the honourable member for Gellibrand to seek to criticise the Government so far as the deficit is concerned is not, I think, to acknowledge that greater success has been achieved in these areas than was forecast at the time of the Budget. 
The deficit will be greater than the amount budgeted for. I have said that before and I say it again. The great bulk of the expected increase in the deficit is not the result of a relaxation of expenditure restraint by this Government. It will, to a very significant degree, be as a result of a revenue shortfall for reasons for which the Government ought to be commended and praised rather than criticised. I remind the House that there is a very significant difference between a Budget deficit of a particular level which is the result of a completely unrestrained approach to government spending and a Budget deficit of that same level which is the result of the Government having achieved greater success with its economic strategies at an earlier date than thought possible. 
I would be the last person to say to the House that all of our economic problems are behind us. I would be the last person to deny that unemployment in Australia is not a significant social and economic problem. What I do say to the Opposition is that it will never solve the problem of unemployment in this country if it refuses to accept the impact of wage increases on employment prospects. It will never solve the problems of unemployment in Australia if it pretends there is no link between unemployment and inflation and that unemployment can be solved by governments spending more and more of the taxpayers' money. I simply remind the Opposition that that strategy was tried between 1 972 and 1975. It was found dismally wanting on that occasion. It would be found dismally wanting if it were to be tried again. 
-No, not at all. 
-What the honourable gentleman - 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report by the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust on the management of the Superannuation Fund during the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 162 of the Superannuation Act 1976 I present the report by the Commissioner for Superannuation on the general administration and operation of the Superannuation Act 1976- other than Part III which deals with the management of the Superannuation Fund- and the Superannuation Act 1922 during the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes. The gap that exists between the two can be closed in one of two ways or a combination of both. What the Government has argued is that - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Total income tax revenue from individuals in 1 975-76 and 1976-77 and the estimate for 1977-78 given in the statements attached to the 1977-78 Budget Speech were as follows: 
I can inform the honourable gentleman that I have read the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I must say to the House that it is an extremely disappointing decision. For the Commission in current circumstances to have awarded what is 100 per cent wage indexation means that the Commission has paid no regard whatever to the clear link that exists between the level and the rate of wage increases in the Australian community and the level of unemployment in the Australian community. This decision will do nothing towards creating fresh job opportunities in the Australian community. Those honourable members opposite who are interjecting and protesting their support for full wage indexation, as they have done over the past two and a quarter years, are demonstrating a practical lack of concern for the levels of unemployment in Australia. Their interjecting and protests do not match the rhetoric they so frequently resort to when they are talking about the levels of unemployment in Australia. 
Perhaps the most disappointing part of the Commission's judgment is to be found on page  4  of the document. I wish to quote the words used by the Commission and I would like honourable gentlemen opposite who dispute what I am saying to listen to these words carefully: 
A wage adjustment by the full 1.3 per cent would be consistent with a continued slowing down of the rate of inflation and would be the smallest percentage increase awarded since indexation began in April 197S. 
I put it to the House that, if the Commission believes that  100  per cent wage indexation would be consistent with a continued slowing down of inflation, surely it would accept that a zero flow on of the March quarter increase of the consumer price index would make an even greater contribution towards the slowing down of the rate of inflation. By its own reasoning, the Commission has not paid sufficient regard to the economic consequences of the decision it has taken. 
As honourable gentlemen will be aware, the Commission has said that it will resume hearings on the question of indexation guidelines on  20  June. I make it clear to the House that the Government remains firmly of the view that wage hearings under present circumstances are far too frequent. The Government will submit to that resumed hearing that less frequent wage adjustments should occur. But I should like to make it equally clear to the House that in present circumstances the Government does not see less frequent wage hearings as being a trade-off for full wage indexation. In present circumstances the Government remains firmly of the view that it is economically irresponsible to follow a policy of full wage indexation. 
-I should be absolutely delighted to supply the honourable member for Wills with such additional detailed evidence in support of the proposition as he might think necessary. I doubt very much that he will be persuaded. I think the honourable gentleman will remain of the view that he will not be persuaded. But I put it to the honourable gentleman that the clearest empirical evidence possible is the fact that at precisely the time that the Government of which he was a member allowed wages in the community to go through the roof this country moved to a higher threshold of unemployment. I put it very strongly to the Opposition also that over the past  2W  years, if we take into account the most recent decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which was handed down today, we have had something like  75  per cent of full wage indexation from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in national wages cases. It is the Government's view that if our submissions before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had been given greater weight by the Commission over the past  2V*  years the level of unemployment in the Australian community would not be as high as it is now. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The formal position is that the Government is not committed to any particular form of legislation in this area. Submissions have been made to the Government by the Insurance Brokers Council of Australia and other insurance bodies and meetings have been held between industry representatives, government officials and myself. The State governments are also being consulted. At this stage, no final conclusions have been reached on the policy issues involved. 
and (3)1 understand that the final report of the Law Reform Commission inquiry into aspects of insurance law, which will include material relating to insurance intermediaries, is not expected to be completed until some time in 1979. A decision on tabling the report will be made by the Attorney-General at the appropriate time. 
The findings of the Law Reform Commission could have significant implications for the question of legislation relating to the supervision of insurance brokers. However, it is my intention that, to the extent practicable, work on the formulation of possible approaches to the matter of supervision should continue pending receipt of the report of the Law Reform Commission. My Department is maintaining close liaison with the Commission. An announcement of the Government's decision will be made as soon as practicable.  'Croatian Embassy'  (Question No. 776) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government has under study matters which might inhibit foreign investment in Australia. Advice on these matters has been received from relevant Departments, including advice from a task group of officers of the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Trade and Resources, and the Treasury. Such advice to the Government is, of course, confidential. The Government will announce at the appropriate time any proposed changes in policy or procedures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistical series is maintained which would provide the information sought by the honourable member. 
Electoral: Distribution of Votes in St George Division (Question No. 976) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As this matter concerns the administration of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, I have sought the advice of the Managing Director of the Corporation. The following information, provided by him, gives details of the housing finance schemes applicable to different groups of Corporation staff and explains why some groups of staff have access to housing loans under the Officers ' Homes Advance (OHA) scheme, while some other groups have access to Commonwealth Savings Bank loans on concessional terms and conditions- 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation's OHA scheme is designed primarily to assist married men officers who, as a fundamental condition of employment, are required to be prepared to serve at any of the points of Corporation representation. The scheme, especially in relation to such matters as eligibility criteria, terms of loans and interest rates, is subject to regular review. One such review is currently being undertaken. 
As things stand at present, other groups of officers eligible for loans under the OHA scheme are single matureage officers of either sex (usually those over 30 years of age) who appear to have settled for careers in the Corporation. 
The groups of staff that are ineligible for OHA facilities include married women officers whose husbands are not 
Corporation officers, young single men and women officers, probationers, full-time temporary service staff and part-time staff. The reasons for defferentiation among staff concerning eligibility for OHA facilities include those associated with differing mobility obligations and with differing needs for housing loan finance. 
The basic considerations for regarding married women officers as being ineligible for OHA facilities are that, as a group, they generally have comparatively short working  Eves  and few, if any, are subject to transfer involving a change of domicile. However, in recognition of their value as serving officers of the Corporation, provision has been made for married women officers, jointly with their (nonCorporation officer) husbands, to have access to Commonwealth Savings Bank loans on terms and conditions that are advantageous to the officers (and their husbands) compared with facilities normally available to Savings Bank borrowers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The increase in Commonwealth Government securities on issue in Australia during 1976-77, including Commonwealth securities issued on behalf of the States, was $2,407m. In terms of Australian currency equivalent, the increase in Commonwealth Government securities on issue overseas was $545m in 1976-77. For further details see Budget Paper No. 6, Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1977, Table 3. 
and (3) Life assurance offices' holdings of Commonwealth Government securities on issue in Australia increased  by SI  72m or 8.4 per cent during 1976-77. Savings Banks' holdings of such securities fell by $141m or 5.0 percent during 1976-77. The net increase in holdings by life assurance companies and savings banks combined was $31m, representing 1.3 per cent of the total increase in Commonwealth Government securities on issue in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Taxation Office has 200 staff throughout Australia engaged primarily in answering inquiries from the public. These officers are supplemented by deployment of staff from other areas during busy periods of each year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are no specific provisions in the sales tax law relating to handmade silver or pottery. Generally speaking, handmade goods of silver fall within the  2TA  per cent rate under provisions relating to goods such as silver plate, jewellery, articles of personal adornment, sleeve links and serviette rings. 
Handmade pottery articles in the form of ornaments, jardinieres or vases are taxable at the rate of 2716 per cent. Other pottery articles of a kind ordinarily used for household purposes, e.g. fruit bowls and jugs, are taxable at the rate of  2Vi  per cent. Handmade pottery articles not falling within either the 2716 or  2Vi  rate are taxable at the rate of 15 per cent. 
Statistics of sales tax revenue derived from sales of handmade silver goods and pottery are not available. 
Copyright: Reproduction of Printed Material for Use by Handicapped Persons (Question No. 998) 
)-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This also is a formal measure related to the proposed branch profits tax mentioned earlier. Its sole purpose is to make it clear that the Income Tax (Rates) Act 1976 is not the Act imposing the branch profits tax and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
)-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is related, but only in a formal way, to the proposed branch profits tax. -Its sole purpose is to make it clear that the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Act 1977 is not the Act imposing the Branch profits tax and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill formally imposes, at a rate of 5 per cent, the branch profits tax to which I referred earlier in some detail in introducing the Income Tax Agreement Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, which creates the liability to the tax. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) , (3) and (4) See my ministerial statement in the House ofRepresentativeson2 June 1978. 
The honourable gentleman, like other honourable gentlemen, would have available to him statistical information published from time to time by the Reserve Bank of Australia regarding this country's international reserves. I do not propose here or elsewhere to engage in comments upon movements so far as those reserves are concerned over and above what I said in February of this year concerning this country's external account, and I certainly do not propose to make comment in this 
Parliament of the particular kind invited by the honourable gentleman regarding the exchange rate of the Australian dollar. 
-My attention has been drawn to an article in, I think, the Melbourne  Age  which referred to a report from the Morgan Stanley banking group regarding Australia's international credit rating. The honourable gentleman is correct to draw the attention of the House to this reference by that reputable group to this country's international credit rating. I think it is important, when honourable gentlemen from both sides of the House, particularly the other side of the House, talk about the extent to which this Government has borrowed funds to supplement its reserves, to recognise just what an outstanding credit rating this country has in international financial markets. The truth of the matter is that this country has been able to secure terms for its international borrowings which are the envy of other countries which would like to have a similar classification. This country's credit rating is extremely high. Its triple A rating, as mentioned by the honourable gentleman, is thoroughly deserved and indicates strongly international investor and economic confidence in this country. 
I am aware of the argument advanced by the honourable member for Lilley and the propositions which surround that argument with regard to Budget policies and other policies. I do not think it would be appropriate for me, at a time when the Government is reaching its decisions in respect of the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council, to respond further to the honourable gentleman's question. The type of argument that is implicit in his question will be kept in mind when the Government is reaching decisions on its approach to the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council. 
by leave- It is now just over two years since my predecessor announced the Government's foreign investment policy in a statement to this House dated 1 April 1976. In the light of experience gained in that period, it is timely that the policy be reviewed. The Government recognises that, despite Australia's high level of domestic savings, we will continue to require overseas capital to assist in the development of our industries and resources. A primary objective of the Government's policy remains therefore to encourage foreign investment in Australia. It is against this central consideration that the Government has undertaken a review of foreign investment policy. The Government has decided that there should be no fundamental changes to the basic objectives of the policy, as announced by my predecessor. In arriving at this decision the Government has been mindful of the fact that the present policy has achieved widespread acceptance from the business sector, including both Australian and overseas companies, and from the Australian community at large. This has led to the establishment of a stable investment climate in which overseas investors can plan their future operations in Australia. 
Nevertheless the Government wishes to relax procedural requirements wherever experience has shown this to be possible. Accordingly, the Government has decided that forthwith: Firstly, proposals for foreign investment in new projects will not require government approval under the foreign investment guidelines unless the project involves an investment of $5m or more- this does not apply to investment in the financial sector and uranium; secondly, in the case of investments coming within the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, the Government will not normally seek to intervene if the assets of the company being taken over are less than $2m, unless there are special circumstances or the business is in the financial sector or some other area where special considerations apply; and, thirdly, individual real estate acquisitions of less than $250,000 will no longer require approval. 
The Government has also referred for detailed legal study certain possible amendments, essentially of a technical kind, to the Foreign Takeovers Act. The principal proposal under consideration would remove the need for compulsory notification to the Government of acquisitions of substantial shareholdings in Australian companies, many of which do not change the ultimate ownership and control of the enterprise, being corporate re-arrangements, and acquisitions of shelf and shell companies, which are of no policy significance. It was never intended that the Act cover these proposals. Repeal of this provision, section 26, would eliminate a large number of proposals which are currently notified as a technicality but which are not subject to action under the Act. It would not reduce the Government's capacity to examine takeover proposals which would result in a change in control. The possible legislative amendments will be the subject of further detailed examination by the Treasury in conjunction with the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
I turn now to another aspect of the foreign investment guidelines which the Government has had under examination. We have been assisted in our consideration of it by recent consultations with a number of companies and have taken into account the range of views expressed. The Government's policy is to welcome opportunities for Australians to participate in the ownership and management of foreign-owned companies operating in this country. A number of largely foreign-owned companies have expressed a willingness to increase the level of Australian ownership in their operations. Some have already achieved significant levels of Australian ownership. 
A concern which has arisen under the present policy is that, short of a company becoming majority Australian owned and Australian controlled, it remains unable to develop a new mining project on its own within the Government's guidelines so far as the mining area is concerned. The guidelines provide that there be, as a general rule, at least 50 per cent Australian equity and joint Australian /foreign control, although there is provision for flexibility. This reduces the incentive for foreign-owned companies to embark upon the long-term objective of introducing majority Australian equity. It may be some years before the level of Australian equity could be increased to 50 per cent. Even then, unless a company were Australian controlled it would not normally be able to develop a new project in its own right within the existing guidelines. The Government does not believe it is in Australia 's interests that foreign companies which are already substantially Australian owned and which are prepared to introduce majority Australian ownership should suffer such a disability. It believes that Australia can gain from the development of jointly Australian and foreign-owned companies which bring together in partnership the skills and resources of overseas interests with Australian investors. 
The Government has therefore decided to modify the existing guidelines in a manner which will enable partly Australian-owned foreign companies to proceed more easily with their investment plans, by providing an incentive to them to increase Australian ownership. The modifications, which I am announcing today, are designed to provide a framework for the 'naturalisation' of" foreign-owned companies over a period of time. The broad arrangements are consistent with the Government's policy of administering the 50 per cent guidelines flexibly, with provision for the gradual phasing in of Australian equity. These modifications do not affect the policy in relation to uranium projects or the requirements of the Foreign Takeovers Act. In announcing these modifications, the Government is in no way suggesting that companies should feel that they are expected, or have an obligation, to proceed to Australianise. I emphasise that it will be for individual companies to decide, on the basis of their own commercial judgments, whether they would wish to do so. 
A company wishing to take advantage of the benefits available under the arrangements will be required to meet certain pre-conditions: Firstly. a minimum 25 per cent Australian equity; secondly, amendment of its articles of association to provide for a board a majority of which are Australian citizens; and thirdly, a public commitment to increase Australian equity to 5 1 per cent subject to agreed understandings between the company, major shareholder interests and the Government, and regular discussions with the Foreign Investment Review Board on progress towards achieving 51 per cent Australian ownership. A company as outlined above which achieves 5 1 per cent Australian ownership and has an Australian board would be classified as a naturalised company. It would be able to proceed with new projects in its own right, in partnership with an Australian company, a naturalised company or a naturalising company, within the Government's guidelines for new projects. However, a naturalised company would, in the absence of special circumstances, be precluded from undertaking a project as a joint venture with a wholly overseas-owned company, as this would involve a departure from the 50 per cent guidelines. 
A company in the process of naturalisation would be given prior credit for achieving 5 1 per cent Australian ownership and would therefore be able to proceed with a new project on the same basis as outlined above. The Government would expect the naturalisation process to take place primarily by way of new share issues to Australians to fund new projects and expansions, rather than by takeovers which will remain subject to case-by-case examination under the Foreign Takeovers Act. The rights of a naturalising company would be withdrawn should it not adhere to the agreed understandings. A company wishing to participate in these arrangements would be required to reach an understanding with the Government on practical arrangements for achieving 5 1 per cent Australian ownership. The Government does not believe that it would be realistic to impose a strict timetable because of commercial considerations outside the company's control. As part of the arrangements there would need to be a general understanding with the major shareholder interests of the company on the process of naturalisation and the exercise of voting powers in re,spect of the Australian business. 
I would make it clear that the Government remains of the view that the objective of 50 per cent Australian equity in new mineral projects is a reasonable one. It will continue to administer this policy flexibly to ensure that new investment is not prevented from proceeding where Australian equity capital is not available or Australian participation in the circumstances of a particular project is not commercially practicable. This policy has to date served well Australia and foreign investors alike. It has created a favourable climate for foreign investment while providing opportunities for Australians to participate in new projects. The Government believes that the changes which I have announced today are consistent with its desire to encourage foreign investment in this country while at the same time preserving the fundamental elements of the existing policy. I add that we will be keeping policy in this area under review in the light of experience and changing circumstances. 
I turn now to the question of exchange control. As part of the overall review of factors which could inhibit foreign investment in Australia, the Government has also examined the present exchange control procedures impinging on capital inflow. It has concluded that basically the present procedures are appropriate and serve essential policy purposes. Nevertheless, a number of decisions have been made which will streamline the exchange control procedures. The Government has decided that the embargo on overseas borrowing for periods of less than 6 months and certain related indirect forms of overseas borrowing is no longer required in present circumstances and the embargo will therefore be suspended as from 9 June. This will include the suspension of: firstly, the embargo on non-resident deposits with a maturity of less than six months, placed with banks, finance companies and other financial institutions; secondly; the restrictions which prohibit nonresidents from investing in fixed interest securities with maturities of less than six months; and, thirdly, surveillance over movements in intercompany indebtedness. Companies which are indebted to related companies overseas will no longer be required to furnish certificates to the Reserve Bank related to variations in such indebtedness. 
The Government has reviewed the present arrangements whereby the Reserve Bank does not grant exchange control approval to a foreign investment proposal until after the Treasurer has decided that there is no foreign investment policy objection to it. In future, foreign investors who submit applications to the Reserve Bank that satisfy exchange control requirements will be able to receive exchange control approval in advance of foreign investment approval by the Treasurer. The exchange control approval will be subject to the condition that any necessary foreign investment approval is obtained. The effect of this change in the procedures should be to minimise delays to the foreign investor. At present, decisions taken on exchange control and foreign investment matters are subject to the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. The implications of using the provisions of this Act in relation to exchange control and foreign investment matters will be reviewed in the context of the review of the Act which is taking place at present. The result of the review will be announced in due course. In commending the statement to the House, I thank the honourable member Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  for his courtesy in agreeing to a short abridgement of the time normally available to the Opposition in respect of these statements. I present the following paper: 
Foreign Investment Policy and Exchange Control Procedures- Ministerial Statement, 8 June 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill that I now bring before the House contains further measures to counter tax avoidance and to improve the equity and balance of the income tax system. It also contains legislation designed to encourage investors to put capital into the production of Australian films. Honourable members will recall that just two months ago I introduced a number of major amendments directed against prevailing tax avoidance practices. I spoke then in a general way about the problems that are posed by tax avoidance arrangements and I have since had occasion to put the Government's position on the matter and to underline the seriousness of our intent to strike these arrangements down. I shall, however, speak first about the policy initiative concerning capital investment in Australian films. 
Capital Investment in Australian Film Rights 
The proposal to change the income tax law in this respect was foreshadowed in the policy speech for the last general elections delivered on 21 November 1977 and the key points of the changes were outlined in a statement that the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  and I released on 27 April last. Underlying the proposed changes is a belief that if investors could deduct their capital investment in Australian film rights over two years instead of, as at present, over a much longer period of up to 25 years, there would be greater investment by Australians in the production of Australian films. There are obvious tax benefits in a quick write-off of capital costs and, when this new concession is taken together with other assistance such as that provided through the Australian Film Commission, the Government can justly claim to be lending significant support to the Australian film industry and to all engaged in it. 
The concession for capital investment in Australian film rights will be implemented by amendments to the provisions of the income tax law that have, since 1956, allowed otherwise non-deductible capital costs of acquiring industrial property rights used in the production of assessable income to be written off over specified periods. For copyrights, which are the relevant property in this context, the costs have been subject to a tax write-off over 25 years, or any lesser period for which the rights subsist or are held. The amendments now proposed will- in relation to rights in Australian films first used for income producing purposes after 21 November 1977- substitute two years for 25 years as the basic write-off period. The longer period will, however, remain for those who wish to use it. 
The Minister for Home Affairs will have the responsibility of determining which films are to be classed as 'Australian films'. The Bill proposes that an Australian film will be one that the Minister certifies has been, or is to be, made wholly or substantially in Australia and is a film with a significant Australian content. It will also include a film that the Minister certifies has been, or is to be, made under an agreement between government authorities of Australia and another country. The Bill contains extensive guidelines for the determination of when a film has a significant Australian content. In amending the relevant provisions, it is necessary also to guard against their misuse for tax avoidance purposes and the Bill contains measures to that end, effective after 27 April 1978, the date on which the amendments were foreshadowed. The antiavoidance measures are directed against arrangements to secure excessive deductions by inflating the cost of rights or by deflating their sale price when they are disposed of. 
Current Year Losses 
In terms of space- 43 of its 68 pages- the present Bill is mainly devoted to amendments dealing with current year losses that I announced in this House on 7 April when introducing the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1978 and that are now expressed to be effective as from that date. Honourable members will recall from my earlier speech that these amendments are to employ and adapt the well-settled principles governing the deductibility by companies of losses sustained in prior years. In the relatively uncomplicated case, the adaptation will mean that, where there is a point within a year of income at which there has been a more than 50 per cent change in beneficial ownership of the company as at the beginning of the year, the net losses sustained by the company in the period before the change will not be available to be offset against the net income of the period after the disqualifying change, unless the company has carried on throughout that income period the same business as it carried on immediately before the change. Similar principles are to apply where an income period of a year precedes a loss period of the same year. 
The point of these amendments, as of the provisions governing deductibility of prior year losses, is to prevent income earned by a company under the proprietorship of one set of shareholders being diminished for tax purposes by losses sustained under the proprietorship of a different group of people. The proposed amendments are undoubtedly complex. This is due to the effort that has been made to spell out, in the great variety of factual situations that can exist in practice, how the current year losses provisions are to operate and to guard against the new provisions being themselves made the subject of tax avoidance arrangements. 
Much of what is in the measures stems from the necessity to modify provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act that are constructed for application to a year of income as a whole so that they can be applied to separate periods that make up a year. Moreover, the measures must be capable of effecting this modification where a company that has suffered a disqualifying change in shareholdings gets its income or deductions via a partnership or its income through a trust. Of course, the legislation has to comprehend situations where there is more than one disqualifying change in shareholdings in the course of a year and a mixture of loss and income periods. 
Dividend Stripping 
Here too, I refer honourable members to what I have said on earlier occasions- in this instance in my second reading speech on 7 April last and in a subsequent statement that I released on 7 May. The proposed amendment under this head is yet another legislative attempt to prevent companies that engage in dividend stripping from achieving double benefits. The double benefit, where it arises, is represented by the freedom from tax of the stripping dividend conferred by the rebate on inter-corporate dividends plus a deduction for the loss on the sale of the stripped shares after their value has been reduced by payment of the dividend. 
A provision was enacted in 1972 with the purpose of eliminating this double benefit. It specifies that only so much of a dividend received in a straight-forward dividend stripping operation as exceeds the cost to the stripping company of the shares to be stripped may qualify for rebate. That provision is now being amended, effective from 7 May 1978, to make it applicable where a third company, or a trust, is interposed between the company to be stripped and the stripper. The cost of the shares or interests in the interposed company or trust will be offset against the amount of stripping dividend otherwise eligible for rebate. Also effective from 7 May 1978 will be an amendment to the new anti-stripping provisions being introduced by the Bill brought down in April. These new provisions strike at the practices whereby a company receives the stripping dividend but an associated entity suffers the paper 'loss' on the purchase and sale of the shares to be stripped. Whilst they guard against a company being interposed between the company to be stripped and the stripper, they do not cater for similar interposition of trusts. That gap now is being closed. 
Branch Profits Tax 
The Government also proposes by this Bill to give form to the proposed branch profits tax on the taxable income of non-resident companies that was foreshadowed in a statement to the House by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  on 4 November 1977. As indicated then, there is a lack of balance in our tax system as between foreign companies that carry on business in Australia through a subsidiary company incorporated or otherwise resident here, and those that conduct their business through a branch of a company resident, for tax purposes, in another country. In each case, taxable income is computed in the same way and bears the same rate of company tax- now 46 per cent- but whilst the profit remittances of the subsidiary bear dividend withholding tax, there is no further tax in respect of 'remittances' of branch profits to head office or of dividends paid to foreign shareholders out of those remittances. The additional tax proposed to be levied on taxable income of non-resident companies is being introduced to redress this lack of balance. It will be at the rate of 5 per cent of the taxable income of the branch. The tax is being levied in this form because it is impracticable to impose a tax on 'remittances' of branch profits. 
In striking a branch profits tax rate of 5 per cent of taxable income, the Government has aimed to achieve, as closely as is practicable, a reasonable balance in the Australian tax liabilities attaching to profits of foreign-owned subsidiaries and branches, bearing in mind that, in both cases, the companies are likely to plough back some of their profits into further developments in Australia. In last year's announcement of the branch profits tax, it was indicated that the tax would not fall on dividend income of branches, nor would it apply to film royalties, shipping profits or insurance premiums taxed under special provisions. These exclusions are made by the Bill. Representations made to the Government since the time of that announcement have led to one additional exclusion. This concerns the profits of non-resident life assurance companies that are allocated towards bonuses and other payments due to Australian policy holders. The Government has accepted the point that, if the tax were placed on these profits, it would effectively be borne by Australian policy holders and not, as intended, by the company or its overseas shareholders, if any. The Government has decided that the tax will apply to that part of the 1977-78 tax year falling after 4 November 1977, and to subsequent years. Although the branch profits tax takes the form of a rate increase, it is in essence a new tax. Hence it would be inappropriate to make it retrospective in effect by applying it to the full 1977-78 tax year. Before concluding my remarks on this subject, I mention that, whilst the basic application of the branch profits tax is provided for in this Bill, the Income Tax (Non-Resident Companies) Bill 1978 that I shall shortly introduce will formally declare the rate of the tax. 
Private Companies in Liquidation 
I come now to measures designed to meet representations from the liquidators of private companies that the undistributed profits tax provisions of the income tax law are so structured as to cause unreasonable delay in the final winding up of private companies in liquidation. An example may be the best way of illustrating the point. Let us say that a private company has earned a taxable income in the first four months of an income year and its liquidator wishes to make an immediate distribution of the income to shareholders, and to wind the company up. The problem is that he must wait six months until May of the income year to effect the distribution because only the dividends paid in the prescribed period of 12 months commencing two months before the end of the income year can be taken into account for undistributed profits tax purposes in relation to the year. To overcome the difficulty, liquidators in this situation will be enabled by the Bill to make a qualifying distribution to shareholders before the commencement of the prescribed period. 
That completes my remarks at this stage on the main features of the present Bill. All of its provisions will, as usual, be explained in a comprehensive explanatory memorandum. It has not, however, been practicable to complete the memorandum in time for introduction of the Bill. It will be made available to honourable members shortly. I mention at this point that, as might be expected, the Government will not be seeking passage of this Bill until the Budget sittings. Given the complexity of much of it, I think that there should be ample opportunity for interested people to examine it and comment on its technical features. These will, in any event, be subject to review by officials during the recess. The Government plans to bring still further income tax amendments before the Parliament early in the Budget sittings. It seems appropriate that honourable members and others who wish to study the present Bill during the recess should also have notice of other proposals that the Government will later be asking the Parliament to adopt. In addition to the measures I now proceed to outline, these later changes will include the legislation against avoidance through prepaid interest, pre-paid rent and similar schemes that I spoke of in a statement on 1 9 April 1 978. 
Foreign Tax Credit System 
The point has been made that recent tax measures by the Government are hasty improvisations and that the Government ought to be bringing forward remedial legislation of a more general kind. This is an option open to the Government and one that will, as evidenced by the significant changes I now outline, be exercised. These changes concern the income that Australian residents- people and companiesderive from sources in another country. Shortly stated, it is proposed to tax this income, subject to credit for the foreign tax that has been paid on it. When the Commonwealth income tax was introduced, it was on the basis that Australian residents were taxable only on income from within Australia. Over the years, there has been a movement to make foreign-source income of Australians taxable, but it remains the fundamental position that Australian residents are not taxed on significant categories of overseas income. 
The position is in fact a hotchpotch. As a result of amendments made in 1941 and 1947, Australian resident individuals are taxed here on dividends from overseas, credit being allowed against the Australian tax for any foreign tax imposed on the dividends. But, because the rebate on inter-corporate dividends applies to dividends from overseas as well as to dividends from within Australia, foreign dividends received by Australian companies are tax-free in Australia, and this is so even if both the dividends and the profits out of which they are paid are not taxed in the overseas country of source. Another rule introduced in 1967 applies to interest and royalties from another country on which foreign tax is limited by a double taxation agreement. These are taxable in Australia, subject to credit for the foreign tax. The credit system of relief applies also to income, other than salaries and wages, from Papua New Guinea. All other foreign source income of Australian residents is exempt from Australian tax if it is subject to tax, no matter how negligible, in the country from which it is derived. 
The Government considers that such outdated, and inconsistent rules cannot be retained. The fact that major elements of the foreign source income of Australians are not taxable in Australia seriously prejudices the equity of the tax system. Two Australians with the same total income can pay markedly different amounts of tax because one gets his income from Australia and the other from overseas. There may even be an incentive for the diversion of economic activity away from Australia to places where the level of tax is lower than it is in Australia. Most significantly, the present rules lend themselves to tax avoidance through the diversion of income to low-tax or no-tax countries. The Asprey Committee has recommended that Australia introduce a credit system of taxing foreign source income of Australian residents, and this lines up with the practice of most major developed countries. Accordingly, with effect from the beginning of years of income or substituted accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 1 978 the basic rule will be that all foreign source income of Australian resident people and companies will bc taxable in Australia. However, the Australian tax on that income will be reduced by credit for foreign tax according to rules that I shall later outline. 
Many Australians travel and work overseas for relatively short periods. As often as not, the level of the foreign tax is about the same as the Australian tax, before credit, that would be payable on the income if it were taxed here. Whether or not that is so, the Government feels that it would impose unnecessary complexity and difficulty on ordinary salary and wage earners to require- that their foreign salaries and wages be dealt with under the credit system. At the same time, it is necessary to guard against avoidance practices that would remain if the existing exemption for foreign source salaries and wages were to be -fully retained. Accordingly, it is proposed that foreign source salaries and wages which are taxed in the country of source will continue to be exempted up to a maximum of $10,000 per annum, Amounts in excess of this will be subject to Australian tax. with credit being available for the foreign tax paid on the excess. The exempted amount will be taken into account for the purpose of determining the rate of tax applicable to the taxpayer's assessable income. 
To return to the main features of the proposed credit system, a credit will be allowed for a tax imposed at one or another government level in the country in which the income is derived if the tax is one comparable with the Australian income tax. The foreign tax must have been paid and must, ordinarily, be a tax for which the taxpayer was personally liable. Credit will, however, be allowed for tax paid on a person's income by another person, such as an agent or trustee. 
As is the case under credit systems generally, the credit for foreign tax paid in respect of a year will be limited to the Australian Tax on the foreign source income of the year and for this purpose the Government proposes to adopt the most generous of available methods by calculating the limitation on the basis of the aggregate foreign-source income of the taxpayer. 
Dividends received from abroad by Australian companies deserve a special word. The basic rule will be that once such dividends are made effectively taxable by withdrawal from them of the rebate on inter-corporate dividends, a credit will be allowed for any foreign dividend withholding or other tax paid on them. In addition, a credit for the underlying company tax on the profits out of which the dividends are paid will, on what is known as a 'gross- up' basis, be allowed to  Australian  companies that have a more than portfolio investment in a foreign company. This credit will provide a direct recognition of the payment of any foreign company tax on those profits and will, at base, be allowed where the Australian company has a direct 10 per cent or greater shareholding in the foreign company. 
The credit for 'underlying' tax will be extended beyond the underlying tax paid by the foreign company in which the Australian company has a direct 10 per cent or greater interest to include such tax paid by a foreign company one further stage removed, if the Australian company has, through the first tier company, at least a 10 per cent shareholding interest in the further company. To guard against avoidance, the relevant 10 per cent or greater shareholding must have been held for at least 12 months prior to the date of declaration of the dividend for a credit for underlying tax in respect of that dividend to be allowed. 
There will, of course, be a number of more technical features of the credit system and, unfortunately, there will be both a need for further safeguards against avoidance as well as a degee of complexity in the legislation necessary to implement it. The Government does not shrink from that, having regard to the greater good that will come from the system's contribution towards tax equity and the reduction in avenues for avoidance. We are announcing our proposals at this stage so that taxpayers concerned will have an opportunity to plan for the pending introduction of the credit system. 
Foreign Source Income of Trusts for Australians 
I refer now to another structural change that has as its principal purpose the prevention of tax avoidance by the use of trusts through which to derive foreign-source income. As the law stands, Australian residents can defer, or even escape altogether, the payment of tax on foreign source income of trusts accumulated for their benefit. The present situation, which the Asprey Committee has described as 'unacceptable', results from a High Court decision some years ago to the effect that the trust provisions of the income tax law have application only to Australian-source income of trusts. Until recently, the decision had not given concern. However, because of the tax avoidance possibilities and' the plain interest of tax advisers in avoidance through international activities, the Government has decided that corrective measures must now be taken. 
The scheme of the amending legislation is to be very close to that recommended by the Asprey Committee. Under it, the existing trust provisions will be extended to the foreign source income of trusts that qualify as Australian resident trusts and also to the share of foreign source income of non-resident trusts to which an Australian resident beneficiary is presently entitled. The effect of the rules relating to resident trusts will be that, generally, the world income of such trusts, like the world income of resident individuals, will be liable to tax in Australia, either in the hands of the beneficiaries or the trustee. Income will be treated as taxable under the trust provisions to the beneficiaries or the trustee according to whether, under the trust deed or for other reasons, beneficiaries are presently entitled to the income. A resident trust is to be one of which at least one trustee is a resident, or which is managed and controlled in Australia. 
Income flowing to a resident beneficiary from accumulated foreign source trust income not taxed in Australia while accumulating, for example, such income derived by a foreign trust, will be taxed in the hands of beneficiaries when received by them. Appropriate anti-avoidance rules will prevent beneficiaries escaping tax on a technicality that the amount or benefit is not received as income. In keeping with the basic principle of taxing non-residents only on Australian source income, a non-resident beneficiary presently entitled to foreign source income of a resident trust will not be taxed on it. In addition, provision will be made to refund the appropriate amount of Australian tax paid on accumulated foreign source income of a resident trust which is ultimately distributed to a beneficiary who is beneficially entitled to it and who, when the income was derived by the trust, was not a resident of Australia. Appropriate credit will be given under the new foreign tax credit system for foreign tax paid on foreign source income which is taxed in Australia to a trustee or beneficiary. As an aid to administration, a trust carrying on business in Australia or deriving income here from property and which does not have a resident trustee is to be required to have a public officer in Australia responsible for ensuring observance of the trust's taxation obligations, in the same way as a company. 
I add that the partnership provisions of the income tax law are to be amended so as to remove any possible doubt arising from the court decision to which I have referred as to their application to partnership income from sources out of Australia. These amendments to the trust and partnership provisions of the income tax law will apply to the 1978-79 and subsequent years of income. I commend the present Bill and the Government's plans for future tax reform of a most important kind to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total approximate costs (including salaries of permanent officers directly engaged in this survey, but excluding costs in the form of overheads not directly attributable to the project) incurred by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in undertaking the following labour force surveys were: $360,000 for the February 1978 survey. $345,000 for the March 1978 survey. 
The February survey was more costly because, unlike the March survey, it included occupation and industry questions with a resultant increase in data processing costs. These questions are also asked in the May, August and November surveys. 
The projected costs, at current prices, of monthly labour force surveys is $360,000 in the months of February, May, August and November and $345,000 in other months. On this basis the approximate cost of monthly labour force surveys to December 1978 is expected to be $3.9m (no survey was conducted in January 1978) and $12.3m to December 1980 (i.e. from February 1978 to December 1980). 
The above figures relate only to the labour force statistics component of the monthly population survey and do not include additional costs attributable to supplementary questions on particular topics to be asked in conjunction with the labour force topics. 
3 ) No pre viously existing social and economic household surveys have been temporarily discontinued as a consequence of the introduction of monthly labour force surveys, but certain surveys that were planned to be conducted as supplements to the labour force surveys have been deferred. These surveys would have covered the following subjects: labour force experience; persons looking for work; leavers from schools, universities and other educational institutions; sight and hearing defects; and dental health. 
Supplementary surveys will be reintroduced in July 1978, and all of the subjects mentioned will be included in the forward program. 
There are no current plans to allow for an expansion of the sample size of the quarterly labour force surveys conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The amount of detail that can be published is restricted mainly by the size of the labour force survey sample, and generally information on industry and occupation is limited to major divisions or groups of the classifications. However, more detailed information on the occupation of employed persons (63 minor groups) is published each year in the May issue of  The Labour Force  (6203.0), but the present classification cannot provide precise details in respect of skilled and semi-skilled workers. The feasibility of the publishing a wider range of industry details is being considered. 
Information regarding the birthplace of persons in the different categories of the labour force is published regularly. The extent of the detail is determined by the size of the sample. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no undue delay in the repayment of an Income Equalisation Deposit of more than 12 months standing if the withdrawal application form is correctly completed. Repayment is usually made within 3 weeks of receipt of the application. It may take longer if the correct withdrawal form is not used or the form is incorrectly completed and further information has to be obtained from the applicant. 
An application for the withdrawal of a deposit of less than 1 2 months standing may be made on the grounds of serious financial difficulties. Establishing that the ground exists may involve extra time. 
Withdrawal application forms are obtainable at any Taxation Office. They are forwarded to depositors on request or where an intention to withdraw a deposit is otherwise indicated. No undue delay in posting is evident in these cases. 
Applications for repayment will continue to be processed as expeditiously as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the current financial year up to 30 April 1 978, the proportion of total social security cash benefit payments spent on each category is as follows: 
1.9 per cent; (b) 47.8 per cent; (c) 9.7 per cent; (d) 12.5 per cent; (e) 17.0 percent; (f) 1 1.1 percent. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The honourable member spoke about these matters in the Parliament on 24 May 1978 and his speech was reported by some newspapers on 25 May 1 978. 
and (3) The Parliament has vested the administration of the income tax law in the Commissioner of Taxation, and not in any Minister. The Commissioner is bound by the secrecy provisions of the law not to divulge information regarding the affairs of individual taxpayers and this embargo applies as much to the Treasurer of the day as to anyone else. 
No. In the course of his administration of the income tax law, the Commissioner decided to send a team of investigators to Norfolk Island on 22 April 1978. As a matter of courtesy, and so that appropriate arrangements could be made for the visit, on 14 April 1978 the commissioner informed the Department of Home Affairs of his decision. Because he thought that the visit might arouse some adverse reaction on the Island, and again purely as a matter of courtesy, the Commissioner also informed me. 
On hearing of the proposed visit, the Minister for Home Affairs brought to my notice that he was about to ask the Government to make important decisions regarding future relationships between the Commonwealth and Norfolk Island and that he thought that a visit by taxation investigators at that particular time might be misconstrued by residents of the Island and, therefore, be inappropriate. On being advised of the imminence of these decisions the Commissioner, on the understanding that they were to be promptly made and announced, decided to postpone the visit for a short period. 
The Government's decisions regarding future arrangements for Norfolk Island were announced by the Minister for Home Affairs on 8 May 1978. The Commissioner sent his team of investigators to the Island on 23 May 1978, that is, before the Honourable Member made his speech and before the resultant newspaper publicity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive information of the type requested is not available. Varying institutional arrangements and statistical and reporting procedures among OECD member countries render meaningful comparison impracticable. For example, in the case of social welfare expenditure, there is a whole range of policies concerned with social welfare objectives or affecting the distribution of income which require appraisal before valid international comparisons can be made. Account would also need to be taken of social welfare expenditure financed through the private sector, especially where this is organised or subsidised by governments. Similarly, in the case of health expenditure account should be taken of taxation concessions and expenditures financed through private health insurance arrangements. Such detailed data for OECD member countries are not readily available. 
The honourable Leader of the Opposition may find it useful, however, to refer to some studies in resource allocation published by the OECD. The publications, which are available in Australia and contain some data bearing on the question, are: 
Public Expenditure on Health ' (published July 1977) 
Public Expenditure on Income Maintenance Programmes' (July 1976) 
Public Expenditure on Education' (July 1 976). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of the Treasury 
Central Office 
I ) The Department of the Treasury was split on 7 December 1976 to form two Departments, the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance. To date the Management Services function for both Departments has, in the main, been the responsibility of the Department of 
Finance. The Treasury did not employ any staff on teamaking duties from 7 December 1976 to the end of the 1976-77 financial year. Currently there are (a) four (4) fulltime and (b) no part-time employees engaged on teamaking duties in Treasury's Central Office. 
The following costs were incurred from 1 July 1976 to 7 December 1976: 
Salaries: $22,804.00 
Other charges: Nil. 
Other Offices 
Offices of the Australian Government Actuary and the Life Insurance Commissioner. 
1 ) Number of Employees ( 1978): 
None full-time, 
None part-time. 
2 ) The following costs were incurred in 1 976-77: 
Salaries: $6,012, 
Other charges: Nil. 
Office of the Insurance Commissioner 
1 ) Number of Employees ( 1 978 ): 
1 full-time, 
None part-time. 
The cost of providing these services in 1976-77 are included in the costs shown above for Central Office as the Commissioner's staff were accommodated in the Treasury Building at that time. 
Australian Bureau of Statistics 
1 ) Number of Employees ( 1 978 ): 
Full-time, 
nil, 
3. 
Part-time, 
nil, 
nil. 
The following costs were incurred in 1976-77: 
Salaries: $155,266, 
Other charges $26,508. 
Note: As from 26 June 1977 Commonwealth Hostels Ltd took over ABS Cafeterias (in the ACT, NSW and Vic) which provides the tea services. 
Australia Taxation Office 
1 ) Number of Employees (1978): 
Full-time, 
4, 
nil. 
Part-time, 
nil. 
) The following costs were incurred in 1 976-77: 
Salaries: $438,419, 
) Other charges $ 1 4,505. 
Note: As from 1 July 1977 staff engaged on the tea services in Sydney and Melbourne were taken over by the Commonwealth Hostels Ltd. Services in other States are provided by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) There has been no substantial change in the details provided by my predecessor in response to the honourable member's question (No. 1349) asked in the Thirtieth Parliament  (Hansard,  8 November 1977, pages 3 166-3 169). It might be noted, however, that the library which was stated as being in the Department of Finance is now formally in the Treasury. The Central Office of the Department of Finance currently utilises the services of this library. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Prior to 26 June 1977 a staff canteen was operated by the Royal Australian Mint (which comes within my portfolio responsibilities). 
The Royal Australian Mint canteen was required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Finance Directions, Section 8. 
) The following tabulation relates to the operation of the Royal Australian Mint canteen in 1 976-77: 
Item 
Whether included for determination of canteen prices 
Estimated cost 
Cleaning: 
Dining-room . . . Kitchen . . . . 
b ) Electricity and power: 
Lighting and heating 
Power 
Rent or lease . . . . 
Repairs and maintenance 
Replacements of plant, furniture and fittings 
Depreciation of plant, furniture and fittings 
I am advised that six staff (including five pan-time) are currently employed by Commonwealth Hostels Limited at the Royal Australian Mint canteen. Wages and salaries paid in 1976-77 (prior to handover to Commonwealth Hostels Limited ) amounted to  S  1 3.645. 
Yes, they were. 
See answers to Question (2) and (3) above. 
No. 
The canteen at the Royal Australian Mint is located within a restricted area of the Mint and is not accessible to unapproved persons. 
None. 
No, see answer to Question ( 1 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3)1 am not aware of any transactions of the kind mentioned by the honourable member that have been made in breach of the Life Insurance Act 1945. 1 would point out that premiums received by a life insurance company in respect of superannuation policies are paid into one or more life insurance statutory funds which the company is required to establish and maintain under the Life Insurance Act 1945. A statutory fund generally provides security for the liability of policies relating to a large number of superannuation schemes and is invested in a wide range of public and private sector assests, all of which are available to cover the liabilities in respect of all policies secured on that fund. 
Specific assets of a fund are not identified with specific policy liabilities of that fund. It may be that a statutory fund of a life office includes investments in a company whose employees' superannuation contributions are paid into that fund but the relationship between the contributions and the investment is likely to be remote and insignificant. 
All aspects of life insurance legislation are kept under review, and aspects of overseas legislation including that of the United Kingdom are examined from time to time to assist in that review, as necessary and appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of this decision. 
to (5) The matters referred to by the honourable member fall outside the ambit of existing Commonwealth legislation and it would not be appropriate for me to express an opinion on any matters of detail raised in relation to the particular case mentioned. I should point out, however, that Part Two of the Final Report of the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry, which was tabled in Parliament in March 1977 by the Minister for Social Security, contains proposals designed, inter alia, to enhance the effectiveness and fairness of occupational superannuation schemes and related schemes for the self-employed. Part One of the Committee's Report contains recommendations on national superannuation. Both Parts have been referred to the recently established Social Welfare Policy Secretariat for advice; aspects of the Report are also under consideration by my Department. The Government will be giving consideration to the Committee's recommendations when this advice becomes available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (4) I am aware of Press reports speculating generally on the matters referred to by the honourable member. These matters are essentially ones between parties to private transactions and it would not be appropriate for me to comment on what are matters of opinion or law. However, it is my understanding that in the majority of, if not all, cases, payment to a branch of a bank that is a member of Bankcard would have lessened the problem of any delay arising from the mail  strike. 1 am having further  inquiries made, and if any further information is obtained that I believe could usefully be passed on to the honourable member I shall arrange for that to be done. 
Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations (Question No. 961) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1 January 1970 the following adjustments have been made to the foreign exchange value of the Australian dollar 22 December 1971- Smithsonian Realignment- the parity relationship of the Australian dollar against the US dollar was changed from SUS1.1200 to $ US 1.2 160, while the par value of the Australian dollar against gold remained unchanged. The Reserve Bank set the mid-point of its buying and selling rates at$US1.1910 which was the lower limit of the wider margins (2V4 per cent) agreed upon at Smithsonian. The link to the pound sterling was discontinued and a link to the US dollar established. 23 December 1972- The par value of the Australian dollar was changed from 0.99S3 1 grams to 1.04360 grams of fine gold per Australian dollar. The central rate against the US dollar was changed from SUS1.2160 to SUS1.2750. The mid-point of the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates was altered from SUS1.1910 to $US 1.2750. 12 February 1973-The US dollar devalued by 10 per cent against gold. The central rate against the US dollar was raised to SUS1.4167. The par value of the Australian dollar against gold remained unchanged. 9 December 1973- The Australian dollar was revalued against the US dollar by 5 per cent. The central rate against the US dollar was raised to $US 1 .4875. 25 September 1974- The Australian dollar was devalued against the US dollar by 12 per cent. The fixed relationship to the US dollar was discontinued and a link to a trade-weighted 'basket' of currencies was established. 29 November 1976- The Australian dollar was devalued against the trade-weighted ' basket ' of currencies by 17.5 per cent. 
For adjustments made to the Australian dollar since 29 November 1 976 see my reply to Question No. 82 1 on 2 June 1978  (Hansard,  page 3063 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) Data are not available that can be meaningfully aggregated to provide a measure of total new capital raisings by the public and private sectors. However the following data may be of use to the honourable member: 
New capital raisings in Australia by companies listed on Australian Stock Exchanges during 1 976-77: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 99. This includes officers of Central Treasury (43 ), the Australian Bureau of Statistics (3) and the Australian Taxation Office (53). 
) The cost to the Treasury in 1 976-77 was $ 15, 125. This includes amounts expended prior to 7 December 1976 in respect of staff who, with the creation of the Department of Finance, were, as from that date, transferred from the Treasury to the Department of Finance. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 65 (including officers of the Commissioner for Superannuation, the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust and the Royal Australian Mint). 
The Department of Finance was created on 7 December 1976. The cost to the Department from 7 December 1 976 to 30 June 1 977 was $4, 1 20. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The management of the Superannuation Fund and the investment of moneys standing to the credit of the Fund. 
MrR. A. Hammond. 

 Mr Hammond's appointment was announced by the Minister for Finance on 10 March 1978 and  Mr Hammond  took up duty on 3 April 1 978. 

 Mr Hammond has had wide experience in investment matters. He holds the degree of Bachelor of Commerce with the University of New South Wales, majoring in economics. 
Yes. 

 Mr Hammond was appointed by the GovernorGeneral following process in accordance with the procedures indicated by the Prime Minister in his statement to the House on 18 November 1976 in relation to appointments to statutory positions. 
Yes. 
Salary of $32,336 per annum and Expense of Office allowance of $1,200 per annum, as determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
I refer the honourable member to the Annual Report of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust for 1 976-77- in particular, to pages 9 to 1 1 of that Report. 
Task Force on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Safeguards (Question No. 1246) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As this matter concerns the administration of the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia I have sought advice from the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation who has provided the following information: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Savings Bank allocates funds for housing between the States on a monthly basis. Regard is paid to the volume of demand for depositors who qualify for loans under the Bank 's current lending criteria, which are administered on a uniform Australia-wide basis. 
) It has been long-standing policy of the Bank for competitive and other reasons not to release publicly statistics concerning the distribution of its lending for housing as between States. 
The sums allocated each month to Victoria are not disproportionate to other States' allocations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The replies to Parts ( 1 ), (3) and the first part of (4) of the question have been provided by the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. 
1 ) Interest rates currently being charged by the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia on new loans are: 
Less than $100,000-10.50 per cent p.a. $ 1 00,000 and over- 1 3.00 per cent p.a. 
There is no inconsistency between interest rates being charged by the Commonwealth Development Bank and current official arrangements and policies. 
Interest rates currently being charged by the Commonwealth Development Bank on new equipment finance business are: 
New goods- 8.25 per cent p.a. flat or 15.50 per cent p.a.* simple. 
Used goods-9.50 per cent p.a. flat or 1 8.00 per cent p.a.* simple. (*Applicable when instalments are arranged on other than a monthly basis to coincide with receipt of income.) 
4 ) Effective rates of interest for flat rates under ( 3 ) above, calculated using a formula set down in New South Wales legislation, based on a term of two years, are: 8.25 per cent p.a. flat- 1 5.84 per cent p.a. simple. 9.50 per cent p.a. flat- 1 8.24 per cent p.a. simple. 
On the latter pan of the question, see (2 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government has the present system of taxing life offices under examination. 
It is not uncommon for particular provisions of the income tax law, such as those relating to life insurance companies to be re-examined from time to time. Such reviews are conducted through normal departmental channels, and any decisions taken in consequence would normally be announced in the Budget Speech. Some aspects of the question have been looked at in this way over the last two years. The outcome will not be a report of a committee, such as might be tabled in the House. 
) This is a policy question which would only be decided after examining a number of relevant aspects. If a decision were taken to alter the existing situation in this area, it would be announced at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approaches seeking exemption from sales tax were made to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in Brisbane in September 1977 and to  Mr Viner,  then Minister Assisting the Treasurer, in October 1977. 
The question of exempting the Optacon will be considered, together with other requests for taxation concessions, in the course of the Government's pre-Budget deliberations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is customary for the concessional provisions of the income tax law, including such provisions as the housing loan interest deduction, to be reviewed regularly. Such reviews are conducted through normal departmental channels, and any decisions taken in consequence would normally be announced in the Budget Speech. 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Office of Commissioner for Superannuation (Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office), Office of Superannuation Fund Investment Trust, Royal Australian Mint. 
Office ofCommissioner for Superannuation: 
(i) 1975-76, $4,970,400; (ii) 1976-77, $5,467,900; (iii) 1977-78, $6,227,800. 
The appropriation was broken up into various items under Divisions 675 and 963 for 1975-76 and 1976-77 and Divisions 306 and 845 for 1977-78. 
Office of Superannuation Fund Investment Trust: 
(i) 1975-76, not applicable, see answer to (4); (ii) 1976- 77, $395,400; (iii) 1977-78, $652,000. 
The appropriation was broken up into various items under Division 676 in 1976-77 and Division 308 in 1977-78. 
Royal Australian Mint: 
(i) 1975-76, $975,000; (ii) 1976-77, $567,500; (iii) 1977- 78, $435,900. 
For 1975-76, Apprpopriation Acts (No. 2 and 4) provided funds under the  following  classifications: 
Plant and Equipment, $375,000; Working Capital Advance, $600,000. 
For 1976-77 and 1977-78 the funds were appropriated as a one-line item, i.e. Plant and Equipment. 
Salaries and administrative expenses are met from the Royal Australian Mint Trust Account. 
) The Auditor-General. 
The position of Commissioner for Superannuation and the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust were established under the Superannuation Act 1976. 
The Royal Australian Mint was established in 1965 to manufacture coins in accordance with the Currency Act 1965. 
Two of the three authorities referred to were established in 1976. No specific 'inquiry' has been undertaken into either of those authorities or into the longer-established Royal Australian Mint. 
The operations of authority are, however, subject to continuing surveillance, particularly in relation to staff structure and numbers and to economy in other categories of expenditure. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of widespread criticism of any section of the Taxation Office because of the very late payment of taxation refunds. 
The Commission of Taxation has advised that the issue of refunds was slightly slower this year due mainly to transitional problems related to the health insurance levy and to the necessity to require an increasing number of taxpayers to verify expenditure claimed to have been incurred by them in gaining or producing their assessable income. If the honourable member is aware of cases where refunds have not yet been made, I suggest that he bring them to the notice of the Taxation Office at which the returns were lodged. I am confident that prompt action will ensue. 
On 5 May 1978  (Hansard,  page 1883) the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  asked me a question without notice concerning the real wage-productivity distortion and the implications for wages of the Commonwealth's argument to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission regarding this distortion. The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The calculation presented by the Commonwealth shows the growth of real labour costs relative to productivity. Labour costs are defined as real wages, salaries and supplements for the non-farm sector plus payroll tax, per nonfarm wage and salary earner per hour worked. This definition incorporates items which contribute to employers' labour costs in addition to wages. Productivity is defined as real gross non-farm product per non-farm employee per hour. An index of real unit labour costs is derived by dividing the index of real labour costs by the index of productivity. 
I append a copy of exhibit MA9 from the Commonwealth's submission to the March quarter National Wage Case showing the movements in the indexes referred to above. Deviations of real unit labour costs above 100 can be regarded as a measure of the real labour cost imbalance. 
There is no 'correct' level of real wages implied in this calculation. It is used as an explanatory device to show how the economy's capacity to pay wage increases has been exceeded and how excessive real wages have contributed to unemployment. Productivity increases can (and in 1975 and 1 976 did ) operate to reduce the gap even when real labour costs are rising. During 1977, productivity did not improve and it was only with mefall in real labour costs in the December quarter that the gap was somewhat reduced. 
The objective sought by the Commonwealth through its submissions to the Commission is not a reduction in real earnings of 10 per cent or, now, of 7 per cent. The Government's position is that the real wage-productivity distortion must be remedied if sustainable employment opportunities are to be created. As long as the distortion persists at present intensities, the Commonwealth will continue to press for maximum wage restraint. The Commonwealth 's position on the appropriate wage indexation adjustment is examined each quarter in the light of economic conditions prevailingincluding inflation, consumption and general activity levels. 
-I present the following papers for the information of honourable members in connection with the Budget for 1978-79: 
Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1979. 
Civil Works Program 1978-79. 
Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1978. 
Payments to or for the States, the Northern Territory and Local Government Authorities 1978-79. 
Australia's Official Development Assistance to Developing Countries 1978-79. 
National Income and Expenditure 1977-78. 
National Accounting Estimates of Receipts and Outlays of Commonwealth Government Authorities. 
Income Tax Statistics. 
Ordered that the papers be printed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In doing so, I present the Budget for 1 978-79. 
Since the last Budget, the Australian people have overwhelmingly endorsed the Government's economic policies and objectives. 
Tonight I reaffirm those objectives. 
First, both for its own sake and as the only real basis for achieving our other objectives, we are determined that Australia will have still lower inflation. 
Secondly, and subject to the constraints still upon the economy, we shall pursue higher levels of economic activity and greater job opportunities. 
These objectives cannot be achieved without continued fiscal, monetary and wage restraint and an appropriate external policy. 
For this reason, the Budget I now deliver further restrains expenditure and reduces the deficit. 
It also contains tax increases and announces significant policy decisions on health care financing arrangements and crude oil pricing. 

The the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1978-79 for expenditure on the construction of public works and buildings, the acquisition of sites and buildings, advances and loans, plant and equipment, grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution, and new policies not previously authorised by special legislation. 
Details of the amounts sought by each department totalling in all $1,593,902,000 are shown in Schedule 2 to the Bill. Of this amount $592,418,000 was authorised by Supply Act (No. 2) 1978-79, the balance of $1,001,484,000 being authorised by this Bill. An amount of $ 100m is included in the Bill for the Advance to the Minister for Finance. 
The main features of the proposed expenditure for 1978-79, of which this Bill will authorise part, were outlined in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the percentage contribution to the gross domestic product of primary, mining, manufacturing and all other industries are shown below. The ABS does not separately define a tertiary industry. In the following table all other industries notionally would include a tertiary industry but also include such industries as electricity, gas and water and construction which generally would not be considered to be tertiary industries. 
Data used in the calculations for he last three years specified below are classified according to the Australian Standard Industrial Classification, while the data for earlier periods are classified according to the 1 966 Population Census 'Classified List of Industries'. The change in classifications has not had a significant effect on the reported shares of the primary and mining industries but it has resulted in a net reduction of about two percentage points in the share attributed to manufacturing industry during the last three periods shown. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is yes. Last year's deficit did blow out to the order of about 50 per cent. That represented an error of 4 per cent in relation to revenue of about $25 billion. I do not think it profits anybody to try to apportion blame. I and the Government have confidence in the integrity of the advice that we receive from the Department of the Treasury and the Australian Taxation Office. 
The answer to the first part of the question is no. I did not authorise any Budget briefing of any official- State or Federal- of the Liberal Party. I give that categoric assurance to the House. Is the honourable gentleman referring to an information kit on the Budget that was available for collection from the Government Party room at 9.30 p.m.? 
That was prepared in my office. 
-Yes, I stand by the statement that I made on  AM  that the Budget has been framed honestly. Statement No. 2 - 
Not as hazy as the honourable member's recollection when he gave those two conflicting answers to which the Prime Minister referred. The statement that I made on - 
It is regrettable if there has been any confusion regarding this matter. There was no lack of clarity so far as the statement made on Tuesday night was concerned. Any confusion perhaps can be attributed to attempts by some outside this place to construe unfairly what the Government has decided. Let me make it quite clear that the effect of the decision is to freeze the means test free pension- I repeat the words 'means test free pension'- for persons over age 70. The means test in future will be applied only in respect of increases to that frozen means test entitlement, which has been frozen at present levels. That means that persons who are now over 70 years of age will continue on a means test free basis to receive their present entitlement and in addition any persons who subsequently tura 70 years of age likewise will be entitled to receive a means test free pension at current levels. The effect of the decision announced on Tuesday night is simply that additions to that means test free element will be subject in future to an income test in respect of both persons who are now aged over 70 and those who subsequently turn 70. 
-I remember the statement I made earlier. I adhere to that statement. I do not accept the construction that the honourable member for Banks has placed upon the announcements that were made in the Budget 
Speech. I do not accept that the decision the Government announced regarding the new basis for taxing unused annual or holiday pay is retrospective. The entitlement to receive the lump sum in lieu of having taken annual leave or holidays during a worker's working time does not arise until termination of employment and the Budget announcement does not, of course, affect retirements and amounts received upon termination prior to Budget night itself. In case there is any doubt in the minds of members of this House in respect of the decision regarding long service leave I point out that the Government has decided that there will be a full phasing-in arrangement so that as far as long service leave is concerned, only five per cent lump sum payments for any long service leave which has notionally accrued prior to Budget night will, on a pro rata basis, continue to be taxed upon retirement and upon the lump sum being received. 
So far as the method of collecting the full financial year effect of the 1  1 1/2  per cent increase in the standard rate of taxation is concerned, I point out to the honourable gentleman that the practice which is being followed on this occasion is similar to practices which have been followed in the past in respect of adjustments to the rate scale. 
The honourable member will know, having been an employee of the Taxation Office, that the Commissioner of Taxation has the capacity to assess tax in respect of given financial years. If the Government makes a decision to increase the standard rate of tax for 1978-79 from 32c in the dollar to 33'^c in the dollar, obviously it must have a mechanism to ensure that the full amount of tax is collected through the pay-as-you-earn tax system for the entirety of that financial year. I also point out to the honourable gentleman, as he well knows, that company tax is payable in respect of the preceding year's profit of a company. As I understand it, it has been the invariable practice since Federation that in the case of adjustments in respect of company tax increases or reductions, as the case may be, the rate of tax applies in respect of profits which a company has earned in the year preceding the year in which the adjustment occurs. I say to the honourable gentleman that the attempts by him and perhaps by sections of the media to construe these tax changes as being changes brought about by methods that have not been employed in the past and to impute into them elements of retrospectivity are both misleading and ill-founded. 
It is true that I did say that yesterday at the National Press Club. To put the figures in correct perspective, I indicated that 265,000 and 290,000 were the monthly average figures which had been calculated for the purpose of payment of unemployment benefits. The honourable gentleman asks me to reconcile that with a reduction of about $9m in funds allocated for unemployment benefits. I point out to the honourable gentleman that the Budget Speech contains a reference to increased staff allocations for the Department of Social Security which are designed, in part, to improve provision of services and also to tighten existing procedures. On the basis of advice and after consultation between the Department of Social Security, the Department of Finance and the Public Service Board- given the tightened procedures that are being adopted- an adjustment which produces the difference to which the honourable gentleman refers was felt to be both proper and sound. 
-I seek the indulgence of the Chair to add to an answer I gave to a question asked by the honourable member for Hughes. When I was answering the question I forgot to inform the honourable gentleman that as well as the tightened procedures resulting from the review of procedures to which I referred, another reason for the increase between 1977-78 and 1978-79 being only $9.6m was the de-indexing of the unemployment benefit paid to recipients without dependants. The November payment of about $10m would have been one of the factors helping to keep down the increase. 
As it happens, I am able to give the honourable gentleman and the House an indication of the outcome of the loan. I am pleased to inform the House that the loan has gone rather well. The final figures are not available, due in part to the unfortunate state of communications in Australia at present. The loan will have raised in excess of $760m, which is a record for a cash loan in Australia since Federation. It is undoubtedly a magnificent result for both the Government and the Australian community. It represents a resounding endorsement of the strategy of the Budget. It is an illustration of the confidence of a broad spectrum of the investing community of Australia in the objectives of the Government insofar as inflation and interest rates are concerned. It is also an illustration of the improved perceptions overseas of the stability of the Australian economy. 
Whilst it is still too early for me to give a precise breakup of the bank and non-bank contributions to the cash loan, the preliminary indications are that the percentage represented by the non-bank take-up was extremely favourable and very much in line with a non-inflationary and most satisfactory funding of the Budget deficit this year. This result confirms in an unambiguous way very strong support for the Government's current economic strategy. It cannot be other than extremely good news not only for the cause of lower inflation but also the cause of lower interest rates in the Australian community. 
-The short answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes but I think it is necessary to add to that. In practical terms it is very unlikely that it will result in the amount of money to be received by the States under the tax sharing arrangements in 1979-80 being increased. It is anticipated that under the arrangements as they now exist all States in 1979-80 will receive funds on the guaranteed basis. Even if we added the additional $570m to the amount of money against which the formula is applied, the figure would still not be above the guaranteed figure. Under the arrangements the greater of the product of applying the percentage or the guaranteed amount is received. 
I should make clear to the House that what is involved is a simple increase in the standard rate of tax. The Government does not propose to invoke the provisions of section 5 of the income tax sharing arrangements with the States which gives to the Treasurer of the day the power to declare that a particular increment in personal income tax represents a special surcharge. We will not be declaring this increase a special surcharge. It is a simple addition. As I am advised at present, and as is my understanding, the practical consequence is the same because of the operation of the financial arrangements. I should add that the effect of the increase in tax will be to increase the amount of the tax sharing base for local government. So when the current percentage- I think it is 1.52 per cent of income tax- is applied to income tax collections local government will receive an increased amount as a result of the increase of 1  Vi  per cent. 
-My attention has been directed to that criticism, and I should point out to the House that when taking that decision in Budget Cabinet, the Government did have in mind circumstances where, as the result of trusts and other income-splitting devices, children received separate income while their parents continued to receive the family allowance. The Government is concerned to ensure that the decision does not have any unintended consequences, particularly in cases where children receive small amounts of income as a result of part-time jobs. In the light of comments that have been made on this particular matter not only by honourable gentlemen on, I might say, both sides of the House, but also elsewhere, the Government has decided to review this decision. I will indicate the results of that review very shortly. 
-I thank the honourable member for that question. My attention has been drawn to those remarks, which were attributed to the  president  of that organisation. I am afraid that I cannot tell the honourable gentleman from my own knowledge whether the assertion is true or false, but one would imagine that the dulyelected  president  of an organisation would at least have in mind some of the circumstances relating to the organisation which he leads when he makes such a statement. What, of course, the statement is relevant to is a decision that was announced in the Budget, that the Government would be taking a number of steps to curb the incidence of cash payments being used to avoid normal tax liabilities. I think, without putting too strong a word on it, that all honourable members in this House know full well that significant amounts of tax are avoided in this community through the use of cash payments. It occurs in a wide variety of circumstances and to a very significant degree in some sections of the community. 
What I did announce in the Budget Speech was that the Government intended bringing down a number of measures to try to reduce the incidence of this. I indicated a couple of specific amendments to the law and also said that we would carry out an examination of a system which operates in the United Kingdom and New Zealand, particularly in relation to the building and other associated industries, whereby the law requires people paying for services in cash to withhold a certain amount on account of tax liabilities, except in cases where the recipients of the payments have had prior exemption from the taxation authorities. I am not in a position at this stage to do more than indicate that the Government intends to investigate this, but I say quite firmly to the House that the Government believes that there is significant tax avoidance in this area. Unlike the Opposition which, through its Leader last night, sought to berate the efforts of this Government insofar as tax avoidance activities are concerned - 
The honourable member sat in government for three years and did nothing about tax avoidance. The only taxation changes that got honourable members opposite mildly excited when they were in government were those that were in slavish adherence to their own ideological hang-up about company profitability and people who work a bit harder and earn a bit more money. They did nothing about tax avoidance and are embarrassed because we are doing something about it. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
From 1971 to June 1978, pay-roll tax on wages related to both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory was collected by the Commonwealth under the terms of the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act 1971. Honourable members will recall that amending legislation was enacted in June to render that Act inoperative in relation to Northern Territory wages payable after 30 June 1978 so that the way would be open for the new Northern Territory Government to collect its own pay-roll tax on such wages. However, barriers remain in the way of Northern Territory pay-roll tax collections from certain Commonwealth authorities not generally immune from pay-roll tax. 
The Acts by which the authorities were established contain provisions which, if left to apply according to their terms, would keep the authorities free from liabilities they might otherwise face under the pay-roll tax law of the Northern Territory that has operated since 1 July 1978. Among the Commonwealth authorities so protected are authorities which were paying Northern Territory wages when that law came into operation and had, until then, been liable for Commonwealth pay-roll tax on those wages. The immediate purpose of this Bill is to override the protecting provisions in the constituent Acts of these authorities so that the Northern Territory Government may collect its pay-roll tax on Northern Territory wages that it has paid, and will pay, after 30 June 1978. The authorities were advised of the intention to introduce legislation having that effect. 
The Bill will also open the way for the Northern Territory Government to collect payroll tax from any Commonwealth authority that commences to pay Northern Territory wages after 30 June 1978 if the wages that it had paid up to that date were subject to State pay-roll tax or, as Australian Capital Territory wages, to Commonwealth pay-roll tax. Explanations of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The environmental impact assessment procedures were the subject of a Press release by the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 26 July 1978. The Government's decision on the foreign investment policy aspects of the proposal was the subject of a Press release on 30 July 1978. These two statements provide information on the Commonwealth Government's decisions relating to the Iwasaki Sangyo proposal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information is not available for all the specified items or for all the dates requested. The following statistics are available from the Household Expenditure Surveys of 1974-75 and 1975-76: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia's foreign currency reserves as at end-June in each year since 1970, were held as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has not made analyses of price movements reflected in the Consumer Price Index which would enable part 1 (a) of the question to be answered. Any estimates of the effects on the CPI of changes in indirect taxes would be dependent on a number of assumptions and assessments and this type of analysis is not generally regarded as part of the Statistician 's function. 
With regard to part 1 (b) of the question, some relevant information has been published by the Statistician. This shows that between 1974 (average for calendar year) and March quarter 1978, price movements in the health services component of theCPI accounted for 2.1 per cent out of the total increase of53.5 per cent in the CPI All Groups Index (weighed average of six State capital cities). The health services component of the CPI comprises hospital and medical fund contributions; health insurance levy contributions; net ('out-of-pocket') medical expenses; and dental services. 
With regard to part 1 (c) of the question, the Statistician has provided estimates for use in recent National Wages Cases concerning the effect on the CPI of changes in prices of wholly or substantially imported goods. The estimates have been made only for the last five quarters and some of the information that would be required to make estimates for earlier periods is not available to the Statistician. The estimated effects between December quarter 1976 and March quarter 1 978 amounted to 1 . 3 1 per cent out of a total increase in the CPI of 10.7 per cent. For the purposes of these estimates, items produced partly from imported materials such as cigarettes, clothing and drapery (excluding sheets) and petrol, have not been included in the category 'substantially imported'. 
Concerning pan 2 of the question, the Statistician has estimated that changes in prices of petroleum products contributed 0.35 per cent out of the total increase of 2.3 per cent in the CPI between September quarter 1977 and December quarter 1977. Any estimate of the proportion of this increase due to changes in excise taxes would be dependent on assumptions about the extent to which the increased taxes had been passed on at the retail level and the Statistician has not attempted such an estimate. 
I am aware of the assumption contained in Statement No. 4 of the Budget Papers. I am also generally aware of the substance of certain submissions which have been made to the Crawford inquiry. To my knowledge, the submission of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is not a public document. If the honourable gentleman's question is directed towards achieving a points scoring victory based on a comparison of figures in respect of unemployment, I suggest to him that the time of this House would be better directed towards an analysis of the problems of unemployment. I made no secret in my Budget Speech of the fact that the prospects for a fall in unemployment in this country were not bright, particularly if further progress was not achieved in restoring a proper balance between real wages and profits. Obviously, all honourable members on both sides of the House share a concern about the level of unemployment. But I do not think that it profits any honourable member on the Opposition side to make predictions, such as the honourable member for Gellibrand and his Leader have made since the presentation of the Budget, of the tens of thousands by which they may be able to reduce the level of unemployment through the application of certain policies. I state in reply to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question that I believe the assumption made in Statement No. 4 was a responsible and appropriate assumption. 
-The decision to phase out the coal export levy was first announced about two or three years ago. What the honourable gentleman did not tell the House when he asked the question was that the Budget brought down three weeks ago announced a delay in the phasing out procedure. Unlike our opponents on the other side of the House, we do not believe in having a taxation regime in this country which discourages risk-taking. We make no apology for framing taxation decisions which ensure that no undue disincentive is put upon the investment of funds from both Australia and overseas in resource projects. 
I point out to the honourable gentleman, if he is worried about the equity of taxation treatment of companies such as Utah, that there is currently before this House a Bill which will introduce a branch profits tax which, as the honourable gentleman well knows, will affect companies such as Utah which operate in Australia through a branch rather than a subsidiary. If the honourable gentleman really wants to establish whether there is equity in the taxation treatment of companies such as Utah, I suggest that he pay proper regard to the fact that they pay not only company tax but also large amounts in State royalties. If this country is to get the sort of development capital and the sort of development activity which will be appropriate to the future demands of the economy, it will not take any notice of the fanciful taxation proposals of the Leader of the Opposition, as enunciated in his alternative budget, which would have the effect of being a massive disincentive to investment in resource projects in Australia. 
As it happens, I have some information that I can provide to the House. I think the House will- I know that honourable gentlemen on this side will- listen very carefully because it is very important information. Quite seriously, it indicates that this country is well and truly making the grade so far as a reduction in its inflation rate is concerned. The latest figures issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development- a body, incidentally, which the Leader of the Opposition was not loth to cite during the last election campaignindicate that for the six months ended 30 June 1 978 the average increase in consumer prices for OECD countries was 9.6, whereas those same figures indicate that the increase in Australia in consumer prices during that six-month period was only 6.9. In other words, in that period Australia out-performed the average recorded by the OECD, which of course is a representative group of countries with which legitimate comparisons can be made in relation to movements in consumer prices. 
The same figures indicate that regrettably the inflation rates in a number of countries, including the United States of America, Canada, France and the United Kingdom, increased during that period. Notwithstanding the Government's disappointment that inflation rates increased in those countries the interesting point is that the rate of inflation in Australia is on the way down. Those figures indicate that not only on a six-monthly basis but also on a 12-monthly basis, on which basis the average rate of inflation for the OECD countries was 8.1 as against 7.9 recorded by Australia, the rate of improvement in Australia's inflation situation is one of acceleration and that we are getting towards a situation where our average rate of inflation is significantly better than the rates of inflation of our trading partners. 
One of the assumptions which underlay many of the decisions taken by the Government in formulating the Budget was the belief that in a difficult trading world it was not just sufficient for Australia to hold its own but it was essential that we do better and outperform many of our trading partners. These latest figures are very concrete evidence that we are achieving that situation. They ought to be a matter of satisfaction to all members of the House and should not draw the sort of inane interjection that we have just had from the honourable member for Adelaide who exhorted us to think about 1930. 
I have to say to the honourable gentleman that in all candour I would have to read those two statements in Statement No. 2 in the Budget. I would have to read them in the context of the other statements that accompany them in that particular section. The honourable gentleman will understand that I do not have a photographic memory and I would want to read those statements in context. Leaving that aside, if the honourable gentleman is trying to allege that in some way Statement No. 2 runs counter to what I said in the Budget Speech and what the Government has been saying regarding the link between the level of real wages and unemployment or the balance between real wages and profits, or if he is suggesting that there is some conflict between the technical advice the Government receives and expressions of that technical advice at a departmental level, as represented by Statement No. 2, 1 most emphatically reject the charge made by him that there is a conflict between the thrust of Statement No. 2 so far as wages are concerned and what was said in the Budget Speech. 
This Government believes that there is ample evidence, not only from the official advice tendered to it but also from the judgment of bodies such as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the experience of the Australian work force over the past few years and the experience, both statistical and anecdotal, of Australian employers over the past few years, to support the attitude that this Government takes towards the importance of the level of real wages in the community. It is that cumulative advice and that experience which led the Government to make the statements it made in the Budget. The Government stands completely by them and believes that the statements are not only supported but also fully buttressed by the official advice it receives. 
I should perhaps point out first to the right honourable gentlemen that the matter to which I think he is referring, which is the proposed foreign tax credit system, is not contained in a Bill now before the House. The second reading speech to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill did contain a reference by me in which I foreshadowed the introduction of a foreign tax credit system; but there are no legislative provisions enshrining that system now before the House. I made that announcement for two reasons. Firstly it was intended to apply the new system in respect of the financial year commencing 1 July 1978 and it was proper, in accordance with matters which the right honourable gentlemen will understand, to give advance notice. Secondly, I wanted to elicit response from those in the community who might be affected by the proposal. I should say in that regard that I have received a number of very comprehensive representations from companies and also, in particular, from members of the taxation subcommittee of the Government parties treasury committee. I can inform those who have made representations to me that the Government will give very careful consideration to what has been put to it before a final decision is made on the form that legislation might take. 
I should point out to the honourable gentlemen that the purpose of this legislation is to have a more equitable treatment of taxation liabilities in respect of various companies. The purpose of the legislation is not, as some have suggested, to discourage investment by Australian companies in other parts of the world. Indeed the foreign tax credit system which the Government has in mind is employed by a significant number of industrialised countries in other parts of the world. Nevertheless, I should say to the House that the volume and variety of the representations that have been received indicate that there is genuine concern about some of the possible consequences of this legislation. As the right honourable gentlemen will appreciate, it is not the intention of this Government to bring in legislation that has such consequences. We will give very careful weight to what has been put to us before we make a final decision on both the shape and the detail of the proposal. 
-A review of section 26E is being carried out by the Government, and in the course of that naturally we will be taking advice from the Commissioner of Taxation. I can tell the honourable gentleman that in the course of that review I will take into account what has been put to me in the question as to the position of persons and companies which presumably have received assessments of tax recently based on revised rental values. I think that the honourable gentleman will appreciate that whenever changes of either a minor or major degree occur in revenue laws there is always a cut-off point of some description, and some receive and some do not receive the alleged benefit of the change. I cannot give the honourable gentleman any assurance beyond a firm assurance that I will keep in mind during the course of the review what he has put to me in the question. 
-The Government has not concealed in any way or sought to misrepresent the level of financial support given to the States at the recent Premiers Conference. The amount allocated to New South Wales- in fact, the amount allocated to all the States- represented an increase of slightly over 5. 1 per cent. 

 Opposition members- Ah! 
-' Ah!', they say. The amount allocated represents a total increase of slightly over 5. 1 per cent. That was contained in a speech that I delivered to the Premiers Conference on 23 June. If the Leader of the Opposition thinks that he has lighted upon some new reality so far as Commonwealth-State relations are concerned, perhaps the honourable gentleman will also acknowledge that in the two previous years, under the new federalism arrangements, there had been very significant real increases in financial support made available to the States. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition can acknowledge that the new federalism policies of this Government have given not only to New South Wales but also - 
I can understand the sensitivity of the Leader of the Opposition because like his - 

 -Mr Speaker - 
I repeat that I can understand the sensitivity of the Leader of the Opposition when it comes to a discussion of financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States, particularly financial relations between New South Wales and the Commonwealth. He knows that he participated with the then Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales in 1976- that is, the present Premier of New South Wales- in perpetrating the most misleading statement ever made in politics in Australia about the effect of the new federalism arrangements under the present Government. He described the effect of those arrangements as the imposition of double taxation on the citizens of New South Wales. The truth of the matter is that the new federalism arrangements have given to all State governments, including the New South Wales Government, not only greater policy flexibility but also greater fiscal flexibility. By and large they have enabled State governments to budget for significant surpluses as opposed to deficits. They have enabled State governments to give significant revenue concessions. They have enabled State governments to hold a large number of their charges at the levels that existed in 1976. So, if there is a record of misleading or deception in the financial area of Commonwealth-State relations, it does not rest on this side of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) A statement about the matter was made by the Prime Minister on 22 August 1978 in answer to a question without notice. I would refer the honourable member to page 525 of the  Hansard of  that date. I am advised that Commonwealth and Queensland officers are proceeding with the preparation of a joint report on the matter with the aim of having that report completed as quickly as practicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) I am advised that there is no record of my having received representations for an increase in the share of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government from the Western Region Commission in Melbourne. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) In 1974-75 income tax paid as a proportion of household income was 14.9 percent and in 1975-76 15.2 per cent. (Source: Australian Bureau of Statistics, National Income and Expenditure 1977-78). 
Social security contributions are not levied in Australia. 
Figures below for the Commonwealth include specific purpose payments to the States; those for the States include expenditure from specific purpose payments from the Commonwealth. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the company was completed on 13 November 1977. However, in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by the Department of Treasury, The Australian Taxation Office and the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting basis within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8/8. 

-Yesterday the honourable member for Lalor asked my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce a question regarding foreign investment and QBE Insurance Ltd. Subsequently outside this House he carried on the speculation that there was some degree of impropriety, some suggestion that a Treasury file was missing. I have two things to say to the House. The first is that I have been informed by the Treasury that no file in respect of that foreign investment matter is missing. No part of any file in respect of that foreign investment matter is missing. I have also been informed by the Department of the Treasury that there is no record of any contact with or any representation to the Treasury regarding that matter either by the former Treasurer- now the Minister for Industry and Commerce- or by any member of his staff. That is information with which I have been provided by the Treasury. I remind the honourable gentleman, as I am sure he was aware or ought to have been aware before he asked the question yesterday, of the terms of an answer I gave, I think to the honourable member for Grayndler, on 10 April this year in which I indicated that the former Treasurer had approved a recommendation of the Foreign Investment Review Board in respect of the matter involving QBE Insurance Ltd. 
By way of final comment I point out that I am particularly disappointed that the honourable member for Lalor should have in such an unspecified and, according to the information that has been given to me, groundless fashion, raised speculation as to the propriety of my colleague 's behaviour in this matter and suggested that in some secretive, 007 way, some Treasury file was missing. I think that suggestion is contemptible. 
-I will not table the file. I do not propose to be intimidated out of adherence to proper practice so far as commercial confidentiality is concerned by the sorts of scurrilous allegations that are made. I also inform the honourable member that I have been informed that the particular gentleman to whom he made reference as being an employee of the Treasury has no recollection of any contact with  Mr Andrew  Hay of my colleague 's office. 
The matter of public importance we are discussing relates to Commonwealth-State financial relations. At the beginning of his remarks the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  alleged deception by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and me in respect of the level of reimbursement by the Commonwealth to the States. In a sense I am not disturbed that the honourable member said that because his remarks give me the opportunity to talk for a moment about what I believe and what honourable members on this side of the House believe to be the greatest piece of deception about federalism which has been used by any political figure in this country over the past three or four years. I refer to the use of the expression 'double taxation' which had its genesis in the New South Wales election of 1 976. This expression was faithfully picked up in this debate by the Leader of the Opposition. Of course, it is wilfully and wrongfully used in the advertisements which are now being run in New South Wales in connection with the forthcoming State election. 
Let me state the position quite simply and I hope without blandishment because it is important that we understand what is being alleged and that we nail the lie that double taxation is an inevitable consequence of the federalism policies of this Government. Essentially what the Leader of the Opposition in this place says and what the New South Wales Premier says is that the consequences of stage 2 of federalism are that all governments are forced with no option to impose a tax surcharge. That, of course, is not only legally incorrect but also economically incorrect. Honourable members opposite know full well that under stage 2 of federalism a State government has three options. It may do nothing, it may give a rebate or it may impose a tax surcharge. I know that the Premier of New South Wales does not want the responsibility for having to make decisions as to whether he can afford to give a rebate or whether he wants to impose a surcharge. I suppose he would like to be in the position of giving a rebate but not wanting to accept the responsibility for imposing a surcharge. I know that other Labor Premiers do not like stage 2 of federalism but the reasons they do not like it is that it brings home to State governments the responsibilities as well as the privileges of federalism. 
If there is one thing that our financial arrangements are all about it is giving to the States greater flexibility to make their own decisions, to order their own priorities and to decide as they are better able to decide where moneys that State governments spend will be spent. On the other hand, in parallel with that, new federalism means that State governments have to accept the responsibility for those decisions, experience the political accountability of those decisions and accept on occasions the odium of having to do things which are unpopular. No government, whatever its political colour and be it a federal government or a State government, likes raising taxation. No government lightly takes upon itself the political unpopularity of increasing taxation. However, on occasions it is necessary that that occurs. 
What I think this House must recognise in the context of this debate is that the great piece of deception about federalism, about the new arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States, is the proposition which came in the first instance from the Premier of New South Wales, which was left dormant over the last  2lA  years but which, believe it or not, has been raised again by the Leader of the Opposition in this place today and has been raised again in advertisements which are now being used by the Labor Party in connection with the New South Wales election campaign. I say explicity and deliberately that the charge of double taxation made by  Mr Wran  is a gross piece of deception. It is legally and economically incorrect. It is irresponsible in the extreme for  Mr Wran  to make the charge and equally irresponsible for the Leader of the Opposition in this place to support him. The truth of" the matter is that  Mr Wran  does not want the responsibilities attached to federalism, only the privileges. As far as we as a Federal Government are concerned, both of those elements are part of the bargain; both of them are part of the compact between the Commonwealth and the States. 
During the course of his remarks the Leader of the Opposition said a great number of things about indirect taxation. He said that if indirect taxation was introduced on a large scale by this Government it would have implications so far as existing revenue sharing arrangements are concerned. I have two comments to make about that. At this stage, the Government has taken no decision on the introduction of a broad based indirect tax. We have decided- we have made no secret of it- that the Australian Taxation Office and the Treasury should investigate the practicalities of having a broad based indirect tax, how it would work and the desirability of it, but we have made no commitment in principle or in any other way as to whether it will be introduced. 
We are doing this for two reasons. We think it is time to inquire into whether it is appropriate in Australia to have a different mix of taxation. Generally speaking, we are a country that has a fairly low level of indirect tax and a fairly high level of personal income tax. I think this is a legitimate and important question which should be asked. The Government, for its part, will welcome views put seriously and constructively by the Opposition or by any other section of the community. I say to the House that when the results of that investigation are available to the Government we will assess them. If the Government wishes to proceed any further in the matter we will make available a detailed discussion paper for careful public scrutiny. I repeat: No commitment has been made and no decision has been made, contrary, to some allegations that have appeared. I am not suggesting that these allegations necessarily have come from the Opposition but they have come from other quarters. The Government has made no commitment. 
Surely there is sense in having a sensible and rational investigation so see whether it is desirable in Australia, in the present circumstances, to have a different mix of taxation. Obviously if we decided to introduce a retail turnover tax or a broad based kind of indirect taxation it would have implications so far as the arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States are concerned. Obviously that would be of significance and obviously these matters would have to be looked at. But to allege, as the Leader of the Opposition has alleged- I do not think I do him an injustice- that the whole purpose of this is in some way, by stealth, to undermine the position of the States by reducing the total volume of taxation collected by the Commonwealth in the income tax area grievously misrepresents what the Commonwealth Government is about so far as indirect taxation is concerned. It is a misrepresentation of the Commonwealth's good faith in relation to this particular matter. 
What the Leader of the Opposition did not say, of course, when he was talking about the effect on Commonwealth-State financial relations of the Budget increases in indirect tax, is that as a result of some of those increases certain State charges will increase. Of course, the States, as I am advised will not receive any further funds out of the income tax increase but they will get some additional funds out of some of the excise increases as a result of the flow on increases that occur in particular State taxes. Of course, that was not mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. He talked about the fact that the Medibank levy collection was not included in the sum on which the revenue sharing calculation was made. Surely he knows that that question now becomes largely academic because the Medibank levy will be abolished on 1 November. 
-I find it strange that it should have been mentioned. If the Leader of the Opposition is concerned about it as a matter of principle he ought to recognise that the Government is moving away from that type of thing with the abolition of the levy. Either way it seems to me to be an odd addition to a consideration of this particular problem. The other point he did not mention- I think it is something that is very important when considering this whole matter- is that under the arrangements that now exist so far as income tax sharing is concerned, at a time of revenue shortfall it is the Commonwealth which suffers the most and the States which are protected the most. Under the revenue sharing arrangements the States receive either 39.8 per cent of income tax collections or a minimum guarantee below which reimbursements to the States will not fall. It is a matter of elementary logic that if we have a revenue shortfall, if we collect less revenue than we planned to collect, as occurred in 1977-78, then in relative terms the Commonwealth suffers more than the States. 
In those circumstances, to say that we have engaged in fiscal extortion of the States by implementing a system which has given minimum protection to the States at a time of revenue shortfall, a system which has rebounded more heavily on us and forced upon us political responsibility- as it should, because it is our responsibility- for making unpopular revenue decisions, and to suggest that is a bonanza for the Commonwealth at the expense of the States, is to misunderstand completely the implications of what happened in 1977-78 and the flow-on effect of the new revenue sharing arrangements with the States. What happened in reality was that less revenue was collected. The States had a minimum guarantee below which they could not fall. Therefore they had to receive that minimum guarantee under the arrangements and the Commonwealth suffered. The States did not suffer. To suggest, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested, that that amounts to fiscal extortion of the States is an odd form of logic and misrepresents the situation. It represents total misunderstanding of the arrangements that exist between the Commonwealth and the States. 
I will come to local government in a minute. I know there are differences between honourable members on this side of the House and Opposition members so far as arrangements between governments in this country are concerned. Let there be at least some basic understanding of the implications of our different proposals. I thought that the Leader of the Opposition made a fairly extraordinary claim when he said that local government is worse off under this Government than it was under the 
Labor Government. I am prepared to acknowledge freely that a number of initiatives were taken by the Labor Government in the local government area which were of assistance to local government. I do not quibble about that. It is wrong to suggest that the Government is not assisting local government when it has increased the level of support for local government from about $75m to $ 140m in the first year, then to a figure of about $160m, and now to a figure of over $ 180m, as I recall it. The Government has given to local government the thing it wanted for years- that is a percentage share of a growth tax, of income tax. We have given local government the percentage it wanted. It now stands at 1.52 per cent. As the Leader of the Opposition knows, so far as income tax increases are concerned, local government in all probability, will benefit from that because the 1.52 per cent is applied in respect of the total amount of income tax collections and is unaffected by any question of minimum guarantee. 
In all of those circumstances, to suggest that local government has suffered under this Government is really to misunderstand completely. What the Leader of the Opposition has not recognised in respect of local government or in respect of State governments is what federalism is all about. Federalism is all about giving flexibility to the three levels of government. It is also all about giving responsibility to the three levels of government. It is demonstrable that the Opposition and many of its colleagues in the States do not want the responsibility of federalism although they are totally happy to take the flexibility that the Fraser federalism arrangements involve. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The advice of the Foreign Investment Review Board to the Government is given in confidence and it would therefore not be appropriate for me to release information and recommendations contained in the Board's report on the Iwasaki Sangyo proposal. 
) The conditions attached to the approval for the project are an integral part of the decision on the matter. Compliance with these conditions will be monitored by the Board. In its consultations with the company the Board will keep closely under review the efforts made by the company to provide opportunities for Austraiian participation and the progress achieved. The Board will advise the Government as necessary. 
-I will be content to have the judgment of the Australian people on the Budget expressed the next time they go to the polls. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The revenue yield from the levy on production of crude oil, condensate and naturally occurring liquefied petroleum gas in recent years has been: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The time necessary for applications to be dealt with either by the Reserve Bank or by a trading bank acting as an agent of the Reserve Bank for exchange control purposes, depends upon the nature of the payment involved and the adequacy of information furnished by the applicant. Some applications involving 'substantial funds', e.g. documented payments for imports, may be dealt with on-the-spot by trading banks. Applications involving most capital transactions need to be submitted to the Reserve Bank but, provided they are accompanied by all the information necessary for their determination, they would usually be dealt with within two business days of receipt. 
I am advised that the answer to this question would require a legal opinion. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
-The Leader of the Opposition seeks to show a conflict between one Minister in the Government and another over what has been said. Let me make one thing clear. The speech delivered by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations last week has been correctly described as an attempt to put in a factual manner the employment situation as it exists in Australia and the causes of the unemployment problem which this country now has. I remind the Leader of the Opposition that if he reads the speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, in contrast to reading some of the comment that has been made on that speech, he will find that that speech correctly ascribes the greater bulk of the blame for this unemployment problem to the wages explosion that occurred in this country in 1973 and 1974. 
No member of this Government has made a secret of the fact that reducing unemployment will be a very serious task. In the Budget Speech it was made very clear that worse unemployment was possible, given unsatisfactory results in the level of real wages in this country. There is no lack of unanimity of opinion on this side of the House as to the serious character of the unemployment problem in Australia. There are differences between honourable members on this side of the House and those who sit opposite as to the appropriate responses to the unemployment problem. If the honourable gentleman thinks that he can create false, illusory divisions between honourable members on this side of the House over the unemployment problem he is beating up the wrong track. 
Like the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  I am not concerned about the pedantry of a debate. I think it is a matter of disappointment that a matter of public importance called on by the Opposition alleging conflicting statements made by the Government about unemployment consisted of nothing more than a ritualistic series of insults hurled against the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other members of the Government. It is no revelation for anybody on this side of the House or indeed on the other side of the House to say that unemployment is a serious social and economic problem. I think honourable members on this side of the House have been saying for a considerable period that at least on one score there is unanimity of opinion in Australia- that is, that the problem of unemployment is significant in social and economic terms. 
I listened for 15 minutes to the honourable member for Port Adelaide. At no stage did I hear from him any suggestion of a serious alternative to the problem of unemployment other than the approach that is being adopted by the present Government. He spent most of the time trying to conjure up the spectre of differences of opinion on this side of the House so far as the problem of unemployment is concerned. He made a few quotations from speeches made by the Prime 
Minister and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  If the House will bear with me, I might do a bit of quoting too. After I have quoted a section from a speech, I will ask honourable members whether anything in it does not do other than echo what this Government has been saying for 2 te years about the problem of unemployment. The quotation states: 
Both the timing and severity of the recession in Australia were far more directly a product of what was happening here in 1973 and 1974 than what was then happening overseas. The plain fact is that at the time we decided in Australia to pay ourselves more for doing practically the same amount of work. Our wages rose well ahead of increases in our productivity. Between June 1973 and March 1978 average earnings increased by almost 100 per cent. During the same period productivity rose by about 10 percent 
They are not my words. They are not the words of other people. They are the words of my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations last week in the speech which the honourable member for Port Adelaide seeks to establish as a departure from the views that have been expressed by the Government. I could not have found a more immaculate expression of the problem that underlies the level of unemployment in Australia than I found in that paragraph. Of course we have a high level of unemployment in Australia. Of course it is much higher amongst people in the 1 5 years to 1 9 years age bracket. Of course the Government and the community are rightly concerned about the problem. If we are to talk about parliamentary or non-parliamentary untruths, let us not endure the greatest untruth of all, and that is that unemployment suddenly arrived on the doorstep of the Australian Government on 13 December 1975. For heaven's sake let us not have the greatest untruth of all in this debate. 
Of course this Government is concerned about the level of unemployment. It has demonstrated that concern, through a multiplicity of training schemes, through a sustained attack upon the problem of inflation which, on any analysis, is the principal cause of the unemployment which commenced in this country in 1973 and 1974. It happens that we on this side of the House have a different approach to solving the problem of unemployment. We do not believe that we can permanently solve the problem of unemployment in this country by simply expanding the level of government spending. I should have thought that the experience of countries overseas would have demonstrated the folly of that alternative. All the Opposition says about unemployment is that there should be job creation. It is very simple. That is the Opposition's policy. It says that there must be job-creating schemes. As I understand it- I am always prepared to be enlightened on these matters by my colleagues opposite- the general thrust of the Opposition's alternative strategy is: 'Well, if we expand the size of the public sector we will create more activity and, therefore, we will have more jobs.' It says that not only will there be more jobs in the short term; there will also be more jobs in the long term with a permanent and lasting stimulus to the level of employment. 
I invite those who advance that theory to look at some of the experience in recent years in the United States. I invite them to observe the fact that when less emphasis has been placed on restraining inflation and perhaps more emphasis placed on direct job creation for a period of time there has been a reduction in the level of unemployment but, coupled with that, there has been an increase in the rate of inflation and the return of pressures on existing employment levels. I invite honourable members opposite to look at the experience of other countries which have tried job-creating and job subsidy schemes. Does anybody on the other side of the House seriously argue that the Government of the United Kingdom over the past few years has solved the problem of unemployment? Does anybody on the other side of the House seriously argue that the multiplicity of job-creating and job support schemes that have been tried in that country have provided a lasting solution? Does anybody seriously argue that we can cure the simple problem that employers in this country are not prepared to pay for labour which they cannot afford by other than reducing the cost of labour to those employers? Does the Opposition seriously imagine that it has an alternative strategy on unemployment when, in debates on matters of public importance and the Budget debate, members of the Opposition come into this House and attack the Government's policy on unemployment yet say virtually not a word about wages policy? 
I listened very carefully to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition in response to the Budget Speech, and I observed very carefully the emphasis that he placed on the question of wages policy. There was virtually nothing in his speech about wages policy. It is one of those uncomfortable areas that the Opposition wishes would go away. It wishes it did not have to worry about wages policy because it is an insoluble problem for the Labor Party. Some Opposition members, including, I suspect, some front bench members, know that what the Government is saying about wages is basically correct and economically sound, but equally they know that there is no way in the world they could carry their rank and file with them to work out a rational wages policy. What we have from the Labor Party is virtually a conspiracy of silence on the question of wages policy. The Opposition is reduced to impotence in regard to wages policy because it is caught in the classic dilemma of knowing that in logic what the Government is putting on wages policy is correct yet emotionally it cannot attach itself to that logical response. For the Opposition to come into this House and talk about the problem of unemployment is one thing. If the Opposition has a serious contribution to make to the problem of unemployment I am happy to debate it at any time, but I have not heard from the Opposition an alternative strategy to the problem of unemployment. 
I listened very carefully, my friend. I am a very attentive listener and I do not normally interrupt when other people are speaking. I have not heard a serious contribution from the Opposition as to an alternative strategy to the problem of unemployment. The Opposition has contented itself with trying to sell the story- it is the greatest untruth of the lot in this whole debate- that unemployment suddenly arrived in December 1975. I do not like to drag up those embarrassing figures about the 196 per cent increase. I know that the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  does not like me dragging up that 196 per cent increase in unemployment in 1974 and how in those years of the wages explosion, industry in this country was moved to a permanently lower threshold of employment because of the massive gap that developed between the level of real wages and productivity. Of course that is a matter of embarrassment. I do not want to dwell over much on those things. What I do wish to say to members of the Opposition - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is a matter which falls essentially within the responsibilities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I am informed that he has covered it in some detail in a letter to the honourable member. I am also informed that, in brief, the situation is that the passports Act confers on the Minister a discretion to issue or withhold a passport. In cases where a Corporate Affairs Commissioner or the Insurance Commissioner has lodged an objection against the issue of a passport to a director or officer of a company, the matter would be examined and a decision would be made after full consideration of the circumstances and any evidence or other relevant information put forward in support of an objection. In the exercise of his discretion the Minister is obliged to take into consideration the basic human right to travel and his responsibility to protect the integrity of Australian passports as internationally accepted travel documents. 
) The circumstances of the failure of VIP Insurances Ltd bear no significant resemblance to those associated with the Vehicle and General Insurance Company Ltd case in the United Kingdom. Vehicle and General Insurance Company Ltd was a large international company which failed because of an under-provision for insurance liabilities and because it had investments in subsidiaries, a substantial proportion of the assets of which were inappropriate for solvency purposes. The primary cause of the difficulties associated with VIP Insurances Ltd, a small Australian company, was the disappearance of some sixty per cent of the company's assets and the departure overseas of the Managing Director and major shareholder of the company. 
I am fully aware of the need for continuing review of the operation of the Insurance Act 1973 including the provisions relevant to the matters mentioned by the honourable member and there are established procedures for this to be done. The Government has no plans to establish a special inquiry of the kind referred to by the honourable member. 
Access to world reinsurance markets for general insurance business is necessary to supplement the domestic reinsurance market In accordance with the policy of successive Commonwealth Governments, entry into reinsurance arrangements with overseas parties is readily granted exchange control approval, subject to prior tax clearance in the case of arrangements involving certain designated countries. 
At this stage there is no evidence of mis-use of exchange control procedures arising from reinsurance transactions overseas and I do not propose to give any instructions to the Reserve Bank along the lines suggested. Any breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations are, of course, dealt with appropriately. 
I am aware of the comments of the Commissioner on staffing and organisation within his Office in his annual report for the year ended 30 June 1977. It would not be appropriate for me to offer speculative comment on what might have been the situation if the Commissioner had had additional staff over a particular period. 
A detailed staff utilisation review has recently been completed in an endeavour to improve the operational efficiency of the Office of the Insurance Commissioner and action arising from this review is now being implemented. The position in the Office is being closely monitored. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank advises relevant government departments of the amounts of documentary letters of credit established by the major trading banks on behalf of Australian importers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The following information on the amounts of premiums collected and benefits dispersed in respect of workers' compensation in Australia is taken from the third Annual Report of the Insurance Commissioner: 
-To take the last part of the question first, the revenue estimates advised to me indicate a tax collection of about $3m in 1978-79 and about $5m in a full year. The honourable gentleman asked why it has become necessary to tax these payments. I think it is fair to say that this is one of those difficult areas in relation to taxation and social welfare policy. 
There are differing views in the community as to what should be the basis of taxation and what should be the basis of assisting people who, by reason of a particular disability or disadvantage, ought to receive some kind of additional assistance. On the surface, of course, because of the unfortunate disabilities of some in our community, it is easy to construct an attack upon a government which imposes taxation upon recipients of particular benefits. Let me say to the honourable gentleman, firstly, that by reason of the existing tax free threshold under our taxation system any person who is totally dependent upon these benefits, as I understand it, will not be liable to any taxation. I say to the honourable gentleman, secondly, that if indeed the community believes that some amongst its number, by reason of their disabilities, should be deserving of additional assistance, the right method of doing that is by direct support and social welfare payments. 
Our taxation system pays regard to capacity to pay according to the level of income, and it is for that reason that governments constantly get requests from all sections of the community asking them whether a tax exemption should be granted by reason of a particular situation. I think that the honourable gentleman and the House will realise that if a taxation system is not geared to level of income anomalies of a far greater order than presently exist in the taxation system are going to emerge. I ask the honourable gentleman and other honourable members on the other side of the House who may be critical of this decision to remember that a decision was taken several years ago to extend the taxation of pensions in company with the decision then taken to eliminate certain sections of the means test so far as pensions are concerned. 
I ask the honourable gentleman to consider those matters. Whilst I respect and understand that he may have a concern about this issue, I ask him to see it in the light, firstly, of having a taxation system which is not productive of too many anomalies and, secondly, of recognising that in the overwhelming majority of cases- I think all, subject to check-anybody who is totally dependent on any of the allowances that he has mentioned will not pay any tax. I put it to him that in circumstances in which there may be income over and above that amount it is not quite as outrageous or unreasonable as he suggests for taxation to be applied. 
I have received a submission from that organisation- the Association of Sheltered Workshops, New South Wales- and I think that either I or my colleague, the Minister assisting the Treasurer will be seeing representatives of that organisation in the course of the next week. The figures cited by the honourable member for Sydney are broadly correct, but I would like to check the last dollar and cent of them before saying that in an unqualified way. I point out to the honourable member for Sydney that it is a slight gloss upon the true situation in respect of this category of benefit or any other category of benefit to categorise as taxation an abatement of the means test free element of a person's income over and above a certain level. 1 think that to do this is to confuse two concepts. The honourable gentleman unfairly implied that the taxation level was set at two-thirds of the income, whereas the taxation level is significantly lower. I think also that the honourable gentleman has done what other critics of Government decisions have done in some of these areas: He has lumped together the amount of income test free pension that is abated according to the level of outside income and the amount of taxation. I think that that unfairly and improperly represents the situation because it is not in truth taxation; it is the operation of the means test, as the honourable gentleman well knows. 
-At the last Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting the six States and the Commonwealth unanimously agreed that it would be necessary for a joint working party of the Commonwealth and the States to be established and to report to the respective governments as soon as possible on an appropriate response by the Loan Council to a large number of projects which had been submitted not only by the South Australian Government but also by other State governments. My information as of last week is that what is hoped to be the last meeting of that working party took place in Melbourne last Friday week. I am hopeful that arising from that meeting a report of the working party will be available. I take the opportunity to assure the honourable gentleman and other honourable members, including quite a number on this side of the House from South Australia who are interested to know the outcome of the Redcliff application, that both the Commonwealth and the South Australian Governments are anxious to reach a conclusion as soon as possible. I am sure that the honourable gentleman will understand that there are more applications for access to the provisions of the infrastructure guidelines than can perhaps be responsibly accommodated, certainly in the initial stages. Therefore the Commonwealth and the State governments have to work out priorities on both a national and other bases. I assure the honourable gentleman that the Commonwealth is anxious, as is the South Australian Government and the South Australian Opposition, and honourable members from South Australia on both sides of the House, to see a decision on this matter. 
The honourable member for Adelaide interrupts. The date of the Loan Council meeting, if there is to be a formal meeting, will be decided once the report of the joint working party is received. Whether it will be necessary to have a formal Loan Council meeting is something that I think the respective governments will have to decide when they have the report. I genuinely assure honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House that there is no delay on the part of the Commonwealth. I regret that in some quarters there have been suggestions of a deliberate delay on the part of the Commonwealth or by the Commonwealth Department of the Treasury. That is absolutely incorrect. In terms of the timetable, the Treasury for some time has been waiting on responses but I do not in any sense criticise the States. There is a genuine desire to have this matter brought to finality as soon as possible so that the fate of the Redcliff project can be known so far as infrastructure finance is concerned. 
The answer to the question is no. The honourable gentleman ought to wait before he gets excited about the Niemeyer statements for the first two months. One of the principal reasons why Government spending in the first two months is higher than projected is that there was an extra pension pay period in August. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Industry and  Commerce  responding immediately to the grave charges levelled against him by the honourable member for Lalor. 
-This side of the House - 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Industry and Commerce responding immediately in his own defence to the grave charges levelled against him by the honourable member for Lalor. 
-This side of the House listened in comparative silence to the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  not because it was impressed with the arguments he presented, not because he presented anything new but because I believe all members on this side of the House share a very justifiable and deep sense of outrage at the constant manner in which members of the Opposition, pleading distaste for mud slinging, pleading a reluctance to raise matters that cast doubt on the integrity of people on this side of the House, have persisted over the past nine or 10 months at periodic intervals to continue to impugn the behaviour, the reputation and the integrity of my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch). 
The honourable member for Lalor presented nothing new in what he said. It was known months ago indeed, at the end of last year that my right honourable friend and his wife obtained a loan from QBE Insurance Limited. As long ago as April in this House in answer to a question from the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  I provided details surrounding the approval by the former Treasurer of a foreign investment application involving that company. The mortgage that he tabled has been a matter of public record and access because it is a document filed with a registry in Queensland, I imagine, since the document was executed. I remind the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  that the foreign investment approval was given on 22 December 1975 and not 1976 as both them incorrectly alleged and therefore preceded by 18 months the date of signing of the mortgage by  Mr and Mrs Lynch  over the particular unit. What the honourable member for Lalor has tried to establish is one or other of two charges. He has either tried to establish that the right honourable gentleman obtained this mortgage in some kind of kickback for a favourable foreign investment decision - 
-The honourable member has had his say. I ask him just keep quiet. Either that is the charge or another is the charge. I will come to the other charge in a moment. 
He may describe his words as being words to establish lack of prudence. He hopes and he knows that the possible consequence is to cast doubt on the integrity of my friend and that I think is what many on this side of the House find so distasteful. So the charge- 
It is very hard to find any hope from the honourable gentleman. Nonetheless, I think that anybody listening to the speech of the honourable member for Lalor would imagine that he is making two charges. The first of those charges is that the mortgage was obtained as some kind of favourable response, whatever one likes to call it, for the foreign investment decision given by my colleague. In order to sustain that charge, surely the honourable gentleman has to satisfy this House, first, that when the right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  gave the foreign investment decision he in fact acted in a way that was not sustainable, taking into account the facts and the merits of that particular case. Secondly, in my view the honourable member for Lalor would also have to establish that in some weird way there was a conspiracy among a number of Government departments to bring about a favourable recommendation. The truth is simply this: On 22 December 1975, 18 months before the mortgage was signed, my colleague approved a recommendation from the Foreign Investment Review Board. As the honourable gentleman should know, under the Foreign Investment Act numerous recommendations come from the Foreign Investment Review Board in relation to a large number of transactions. That particular proposal had been the subject of examination by the Department of Urban and Regional Development, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Overseas Trade, the Department of Minerals and Energy, the Department of Manufacturing Industry, the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
I am informed- and I understand it to be a fact- that every single one of those departments recommended that the proposal should be approved. They made those recommendations to the Foreign Investment Review Board in the course of the normal process of departmental consultation. In the teeth of that advice, the Foreign Investment Review Board recommended to the former Treasurer that the proposals should be accepted. I put it to the House that in those circumstances it would have been extraordinary if the right honourable gentleman had not approved the proposal. To suggest that there is something peculiar about that particular approval, to suggest that there is any nexus at all between that approval and the signing of that mortgage is an absolute nonsense. 
It has palpably not been sustained or established by anything that the honourable member for Lalor has produced in this debate and has not been sustained by anything that any of his colleagues have sought over the last 10 or 11 months to bring out in this whole situation. That, in my judgment, disposes of the first of the possible charges that are raised. If the honourable member for Lalor is not satisfied with that explanation, I believe that it is impossible to satisfy him with any explanation. Here we have the clearest possible situation where all of the participating departments said that it ought to proceed. The Foreign Investment Review Board said that it ought to proceed. It was approved by the right honourable gentleman in December 1975. 
The second of the charges is that in some way the mortgage obtained by  Mr and Mrs Lynch  was obtained on extremely favourable terms. Of course the honourable member for Lalor would be a world expert on normal commercial terms.  His  word on whether something is commercially normal is something to which we would all listen in awe so that we would all know everything about it. The first thing that he ought to know about commercial normality is that it depends entirely on the circumstances of individual or group transactions. 
-That is good. That is one step forward. If we just remain calm, we might go a few more steps forward. Every member of this House knows that taken out of context the comparison of an interest rate on one mortgage of X thousands of dollars and terms of repayment compared with the interest rate on another mortgage and terms of repayment can, on the face of it, look as though one is extraordinarily generous and the other is not. The fact of the matter is that there has already been tabled - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-There has already been tabled in this House a letter written to my right honourable friend on 12 December 1977 by QBE Insurance Ltd. I think it is worth while that this letter, which is comparatively short and to the point, be read. I think it is very relevant to the charges that have been made. It states: 
I confirm that, as agreed at the outset with Irish, Young and Outhwaite, the mortgage loan made by QBE Insurance Ltd to you and  Mrs Lynch  was on normal commercial terms. 
The interest rate was determined as being equal to the then current lending rate of the Queensland State Government Insurance Office Building Society. Since there is no provision in the mortgage for a reduction in interest rates - 
I emphasise that-  . . should the general level of rates fall in the future (as is the case with building society loans) it was reasonable to allow the option of repayment without penalty. The detailed terms of QBE mortgage loans take into account the wishes of the borrowers, consistent with commercial considerations including their credit worthiness. This company has made other loans having an initial period without principal repayment and indeed some loans do not require any principal repayment during the term. 
There is nothing remarkable about that last sentence. There are many loans that do not require any repayment of principal during the term. Surely the honourable member for Lalor is aware of the fact that many mortgages are arranged that are commonly described as 'fixed mortgages' and do not require any repayment during that period. That,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is the first limb of my response to the charge that in some way there was something wicked and sinister about the loan that was obtained by  Mr and Mrs Lynch. 
As the honourable member for Lalor well knows and as members of this House well know, the affairs of my right honourable colleague and his family were subject to very exhaustive investigation and affirmation by a reputable firm of accountants, Irish, Young and Outhwaite, by a reputable firm of solicitors, Mallisons, and by  Mr Stephen  Charles, Q.C. Affirmative advice was conveyed by those two firms and by that gentleman to my right honourable friend, to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and to a number of their joint colleagues. All advice indicated that there was no impropriety and that there was commercial normality in the arrangements. The advice from Mallisons stated: 
The documents and correspondence do not disclose that the Treasurer or his family interests have been involved in any transaction which in our opinion is improper, reprehensible or illegal, nor that they obtained any advantage from the transactions, pecuniary or otherwise, which might not have been obtained by any private citizen in the management of his own affairs. 
That is an unequivocal response by a reputable firm to the charge that in some way the right honourable gentleman used his position to gain a privilege and advantage. I think that this House and the community are fed up to the back teeth with the running smear in which the honourable member for Lalor has participated today under the guise of having disdain and disgust for raising matters of this nature. If he wants to sling a bit of mud, why does he not be honest enough to get up and say that he is doing it. That is what he has done. He has continued to persecute the right  honourable gentleman and I think that this House ought to reject the motion. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am quite happy to table the  Han sard  record. 
Just let me have a look. 
I am just trying to find the documents from which I quoted. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the report of an inspector appointed pursuant to the Insurance Act 1973 to investigate and report on certain matters concerning the Australian Motorists and General Insurance Company Proprietary Limited. 
As the honourable gentleman is aware, members of the Government today saw a deputation of organisations concerned with the handicapped. Representatives of a meeting which took place outside Parliament House met the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Security and me. The Government had this particular section of the Budget under consideration this morning. I can inform the honourable gentleman that the Government has decided not to proceed with the taxation of the welfare payments enumerated on page 22 of the Budget Speech. 
-The short answer to the honourable member's question is no. The Government has given careful consideration to the implications of this decision. There are obvious administrative anomalies and very strongly held views throughout the community that the application of this decision would bring with it a number of anomalous and inequitable situations. The Government therefore believes that the decision should not be proceeded with. 
The honourable member for Adelaide inquires what effect this decision and the one I announced a few moments ago will have on the deficit. I have done some calculations and the deficit, assuming all else is equal, will be in the order of $2, 835m, which is about $800m less than the stated deficit in the alternative Budget of the Leader of the Opposition and about $ 1,500m less than the real deficit in that alternative Budget. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Decisions on information to be provided to the Parliament are the responsibility of the Government and of individual Ministers. Such decisions are taken on the merits of each particular case, and it is not possible to generalize in the manner apparently sought by the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government takes all measures necessary to ensure that the Parliament is kept fully informed on all relevant matters. 
Provision of Information on a Confidential Basis (Question No. 1666) 
My attention and the attention of the Government have been drawn to the decision of the Victorian Supreme Court at the end of July in the case referred to by the honourable gentleman. In summary, the judge held that, contrary to the long understood practice and meaning of the law, provisions of the law in respect of payments on account of leave entitlements were available under the Income Tax Assessment Act on an accruals basis as opposed to their being available when the outgoings actually were incurred. That decision has been the subject of an appeal by the Commissioner of Taxation to the Federal Court of Australia. Naturally, I and the House will await with interest the outcome of that appeal. That decision does have implications of quite a serious magnitude for this year's revenue collections. I have been advised by the Commissioner of Taxation that that decision means that up to $600m of anticipated revenue collections this year will be under threat. I regard this as being very much in the nature of a freak threat to the revenue collections of this country. Obviously, in those circumstances the interest of the Commissioner in pursuing an appeal is very understandable. 
The Government must respond to the possible loss of revenue of this magnitude. It has decided, therefore, to amend as soon as possible the Income Tax Assessment Act to make it clear that, with effect from 1 July 1977, deductions on account of payments for long service leave, annual leave and other forms of leave will be allowable only in the year in which the outgoing on account of that payment actually occurs. It is true, as the honourable gentleman's question implied, that to amend the law back to 1 July 1 977 does, in a strict sense, involve retrospective application of the law. I make it clear to the honourable gentleman that in no way will this decision of the Government or the amendment of the Act alter the right of people to claim a deduction for payments on account of leave. All it will do is to restore the status quo and to put it beyond doubt that the deduction will not be available except in the year in which the outgoing is actually incurred. 
It should be made plain to the honourable gentleman and to the House also that, faced with this problem, the only practical alternative available to a government which will not tolerate a blow-out of that magnitude of its deficit in those circumstances would have been to decide to impose a general increase in company tax of the order of five, six, or seven per cent, in order to raise the necessary revenue. I point out to the House also that, whilst in a strict sense the decision is retrospective, on one argument it is no more retrospective than an increase in the general rate of company tax announced in a budget because such an increase would have effect from 1 July in the immediately  preceding  financial year, which is precisely the date of the proposed commencement of this change which I have outlined. It is a matter of regret that it is necessary for the Government to take this action. It has given the matter very careful thought. It believes that it has no alternative but to take this action to protect the revenue. It would be failing in its duty to the general body of taxpayers to do otherwise. I believe that it is a decision which ought to receive the support of the entire House. 
That transaction, as I now understand it, took place at about the time the honourable gentleman suggested. My recollection- I will need to check that and advise the House if it is incorrect- is that the proposal in the question was referred to and decided upon by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer, my colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The proposal was not referred to in my answer on 10 April because I was not asked about it. I was asked about a proposal involving an 
American property company. I will check my files and records to see whether there is any other relevant information on which I ought to inform the honourable gentleman. 
I can assure the honourable gentleman for Bonython that the Government will continue its strong response to all forms of blatant tax avoidance, in whatever area and in whatever circumstances they occur. The honourable gentleman will be aware that, in respect of the decision of which I spoke yesterday, the Government did have in mind, in terms of expenditure saving, situations where significant private incomes had resulted from income splitting devices; but I repeat that this Government will act appropriately whenever evidence of blatant tax avoidance emerges. 
-During Question Time the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  asked me a question about a foreign investment matter involving Equitable Life and General Insurance and the British Friends Provident Group. I have been able to check some of the details relating to that proposal. I can confirm, as I indicated at Question Time, that the proposal was approved by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer who was then and is now the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and not by the then Treasurer. I have also been informed - 
No, I am just answering the question in a factual manner. 
-I do not think that that is the reason you are slow. 
I am not. I am adding to an answer. 
-Is there? I am sorry about that. I also inform the House that no objections were raised by any departments consulted and that the Life Insurance Commissioner raised no objection to the proposals. As a final comment, I also inform the honourable gentleman that the proposal was ultimately approved by the High Court of Australia exercising its jurisdiction under the Life Insurance Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The honourable member will be aware that a liquidator has been appointed under the New South Wales Companies Act to wind up the affairs of VIP Insurance Limited (in Liquidation). An inspector appointed by me under section 52 of the  Insurance Act  1973 is currently monitoring various matters associated with the failure of VIP Insurances Limited (in Liquidation), including those referred to in the Question, and it would not be appropriate for me at this stage to take any of the specific courses of action proposed by the honourable member. He can be assured, however that these matters are well under notice and will be fully considered on completion of the investigations now being undertaken. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (5) The Government did not act in June 1977 to impose a sales tax on gold coins. Action to collect sales tax on taxable gold coins was initiated by the Commissioner of Taxation under existing provisions of the sales tax law when it came to his notice that some coins that were being imported did not qualify for exemption under item 69b in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. That item exempts imported coins that are entered for home consumption under Customs Tariff item 99.03 as collections, or collectors' pieces, of numismatic interest. 
Suspension of Pan IV of the Banking Act on 30 January 1976 removed the necessity for Australian residents to seek the approval of the Reserve Bank of Australia to hold, possess or deal in gold coins of any nature in Australia. 
Yes. See answer to (3) above. 
No. 
I am informed that the Reserve Bank has not for many years sold gold coins to jewellery businesses or other dealers and there was no change in this practice as a result of the suspension of Pan IV of the Banking Act. 
Yes. 
Yes. There are no Australian gold coins at present being minted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There will be no impact from budgetary measures on the September quarter 1978 because the prices of goods that are affected were measured, for compilation of the index, on or before IS August. 
As stated in the Budget Speech, it is estimated that a direct impact of 0.7 percentage points on the December quarter Consumer Price Index might flow from the change in crude oil pricing policy; further indirect price effects are expected in that and later quarters. Excise increases for beer, tobacco and potable spirits will be partially offset by the effects on prices of the reduction in the sales tax rate on new motor cars and station wagons; the net effect on the Consumer Price Index of these changes will be an increase of about 0.5 percentage points, which should be evident in the December quarter measurement. 
The Government's new health care arrangements are expected to subtract significantly from the Consumer Price Index for the December quarter. The total direct effects of all the budgetary measures is likely to be a small deduction from the movement in the index for that quarter 
In subsequent quarters there will, as noted, be further small indirect effects of the change in crude oil pricing policies, but it is not possible to allocate them to specific quarters. The immediate effects of Budget measures, taken as a whole, on the Consumer Price Index are expected to be broadly neutral. 
It should be noted, of course, that the Budget takes its place as pan of, and reinforces, an on-going strategy aimed at a constant bearing down on inflation. Its longer-term effects for the Consumer Price Index, as for other indicators of price change, should therefore be favourable. 
No. 
No. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is an annual measure. Its purpose is to formally impose tax for  1978-79  at the rates declared in the Income Tax (Rates) Act  1976,  as proposed to be amended by the Bill I have just introduced. This year the Bill contains a special measure to provide a rebate of tax for  1 978-79  for a limited number of taxpayers who would otherwise have suffered a small detriment arising from the substitution of the standard rate system from  1  February  1978,  with half indexation for  1978-79,  for the previous personal income tax system, fully indexed. 
The great majority of taxpayers are better off under the standard rate system than they would have been under the previous system. However, it was appreciated when the new system was introduced that some taxpayers in a limited income range could suffer a very small disadvantage in  1978-79  and it was announced then, and again by me in June of this year, that a rebate would be provided to avoid this detriment. The rebate will apply in the range of taxable income from  $6,601  to  $6,978,  the maximum being  $7. 10  for an income of  $6,742.  Details of the provisions of the Bill are contained in the explanatory memorandum which has been made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Commissioner for Superannuation has authority to require a person in receipt of an invalidity pension under the Superannuation Act 1976 to provide details of any employment in which he has been engaged. The Commissioner may also require an invalidity pensioner to be medically examined. Failure to comply with such requests may result in suspension of the pension. Where the Commissioner finds a pensioner's health so restored as to enable the performance of suitable duties (having regard to his employment before retirement) appropriate Commonwealth employment will be sought for the pensioner. If the pensioner unreasonably refuses or fails to accept the offer of such suitable employment, pension may be cancelled. 
-I think that question is a sorry commentary on the Opposition's recollection of what was not done in the tax avoidance area while it was in office and what has been done in that area while we have been in office. The truth of the matter is simply that the Opposition, in a substantial measure, failed to do anything about tax avoidance while it was in office. For a party which for years has paraded as the representative of the average wage earner in Australia, its lack of action in the tax avoidance area while it was in government was lamentable. What the Opposition is trying to do now, in response to the numerous steps that this Government has taken and will continue to take over the next two years in respect of tax avoidance, is to raise the issue of family trusts. That matter has been canvassed in question after question over the past few days. Yesterday, in answer to a question from the honourable member for Bonython, I indicated that the Government proposes to take action in all areas of blatant tax avoidance and that there is no question of any area being quarantined or isolated from that consideration. 
The honourable gentleman raised the matter of the brandy industry. He is aware of the increases in excise which occurred in the context of the Budget. I believe that all of those increases are defensible. It ought to be recalled that they were the first increases in those charges for a period of three years. He ought to be aware also that, since the last increases occurred in the Hayden Budget, the real value of those increases, through normal inflationary circumstances, has been very significantly eroded. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The major purpose of this and associated Bills I shall shortly introduce is to give effect to the Government's income tax proposals announced in my Budget Speech. Before proceeding to the matters dealt with in this Bill I mention one of the Budget proposals to which effect will be given by the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill which I will be introducing shortly. This is the proposal to increase, for this year only, the standard rate of personal income tax by 1  lA  percentage points from 32 per cent to 33!&amp; per cent, with corresponding increases to 47! per cent and 6 1 'A per cent at higher income levels. I mention it now because of its importance and because it has technical and other implications for items in this Bill. As I indicated in my Budget Speech, it is necessary to raise substantial additional revenue for 1978-79 and this is one of the measures chosen to do this in the most equitable and economically responsible manner. 
Lump sum retirement payments for unused leave 
One of the Budget proposals dealt with in the Bill is the changed basis of assessing lump sums received on retirement for unused annual and long service leave. At present, only 5 per cent of such a lump sum qualifying subject to tax and this can act as something of an encouragement not to take the leave during a taxpayer's working life. The Government considers that the tax system should not have this effect. Accordingly, the Bill provides that the full amount of any lump sum payment for annual leave that is made on retirement after 15 August 1978- Budget day- is to be taxed. The payments to be taxed in this way will include any bonus or loading relating to the unused leave. 
In the Budget Speech I said: 
After tonight, the whole of lump sum payments for unused annual leave will be taxed in full as ordinary income. 
In certain cases the accrued annual arrangements pay if combined with ordinary income would have pushed the taxpayer into a different tax bracket. To prevent this occurring the Government has decided that unused annual leave payments should be taxed at no more than the standard rate, namely, 33.5 per cent in 1978-79. Whilst the Government's decision on annual leave will have altered the expectations of some who had accumulated annual leave entitlements at Budget time, it is incorrect to claim, as some have, that the Budget decision is a retrospective change to the law. 
Such a change is one which backdates a change to the law and retrospectively alters a previously enjoyed right. The right in question is that of an employee to accumulate annual leave entitlements and to take those entitlements in a lump sum at the rate of tax applicable when the lump sum is paid. This right is maintained. In no case will the decision affect a lump sum payment made before 15 August 1978 although as I have acknowledged it will result in persons who had accumulated annual leave prior to the Budget paying a higher rate of tax when the lump sum is received than they might have anticipated at the time the accumulation took place. 
The law regarding the taxation of lump sum payments due to long service leave has been altered. The Bill treats separately entitlements earned before the Budget and since the Budget. These changes apply in cases where payment is made and retirement, or termination, takes effect after 15 August 1978. In the case of entitlements earned up to Budget day, the situation remains the same. Only 5 per cent of the part of the lump sum attributable to the period up to 15 August 1978 is counted as assessable income. On the other hand, the part of a lump sum that is attributable to the period between 15 August 1978 and the date of retirement is to be fully assessable, but the rate is not to exceed the standard rate, namely, 33.5 percent for 1978-79. The limitation on the rate for both annual and long service leave lump sums will overcome any bunching effect that might otherwise have arisen from the inclusion of these amounts in the taxable income of a single year. 
The changes will not apply to payments made to a dependant or legal personal representative of a deceased employee. These are to remain free of tax. Pay-as-you-earn deduction at the standard rate of tax will be made from assessable lump sum payments made on or after 1 November 1978. 
Averaging for primary producers 
In continuation of the Government's measures to achieve a fairer tax system, the Bill will adjust the averaging system for primary producers so as to confine its benefits more directly to income from primary production. Under the new system, average income will continue to be calculated on the basis of the taxable incomes of the relevant years. It will not be calculated only on the basis of primary production income. Income derived from primary production will continue to qualify for averaging benefits no matter how much other income is derived. Only a limited amount of nonprimary production income may, however, qualify for the benefits for 1978-79 and later years. Non-primary production income up to $5,000 net will continue to qualify, but this amount is to be shaded out by one dollar for each dollar over $5,000 so that non-primary production income of $10,000 or more will not be subject to any averaging benefit. 
To achieve this result the Bill adopts the technique of providing a tax rebate for a primary producer whose average income is less than his or her taxable income. Where non-primary production income is $5,000 or less, allowance of the rebate will attain the same result as the present averaging system. In other cases, non-primary production income up to $5,000 will be treated as primary production income and the new averaging benefit will be the part of the amount of the benefit calculated under the present system as bears to that amount the same proportion as primary production income (including the up-to-$5,000 allowance) included in taxable income bears to the whole taxable income. 
These changes will reduce the use of tax avoidance schemes based on primary producer status, but retain for genuine primary producers the averaging benefit needed by them to compensate for fluctuating primary production income. 
Self-assessment of provisional tax 
Some changes to the system of self-assessment of provisional tax are to be effected by this Bill. They are designed to overcome losses of revenue due to the practice of some taxpayers of knowingly under-estimating current year income so as to reduce provisional tax payments. Existing selfassessment provisions may be exploited in this way in the knowledge that the additional tax for which the law makes provision in cases of underestimation will not be payable if the estimate is not less than 80 per cent of the taxable income of either the current or the previous year. 
This will be changed for 1978-79 and later years so that additional tax will be payable where the estimated income in respect of which provisional tax is payable- that is, income other than salary or wages- turns out to be more than 10 per cent below the actual income, other than salary or wages, for the year. The Commissioner of Taxation will, as at present, be able to remit the additional tax where an under-estimate is due to circumstances which were not apparent when it was made. 
Rebate on concessional expenditures exceeding $1,590 
At present, the rate of rebate for certain concessional expenditure in excess of $1,590 on items such as medical and education expenses, life assurance and superannuation, municipal rates, etc., is equal to the standard rate of tax of 32 per cent. As a consequence of the temporary increase in the standard rate for 1 978-79 this rebate rate is to be increased to 331/2 per cent for that year. 
Home loan interest 
Provisions in the Bill will terminate the housing loan interest deduction with effect from 1 November 1978. Accordingly, the deduction in respect of housing loan interest for the 1978-79 income year will be based on interest accrued up to 31 October 1978 that is paid by 30 June 1979. Employers are being instructed not to give effect to housing loan interest claims in payasyouearn deductions after 1 November. 
Commonwealth post-graduate awards 
The Bill provides for the withdrawal of the exemption of income derived after 3 1 October 1978 under the Commonwealth post-graduate awards scheme. An associated amendment will provide for living allowances paid under this scheme to be included in the PA YE system as from 1 November 1978. 
Rebates for dependants residing overseas 
The Bill also provides for the withdrawal- as from  1  November  1978-  of rebates for the maintenance of dependants resident overseas. This measure, which is in line with the views expressed in the report of the review of post-arrival programs and services to migrants, was made necessary by the mounting abuse of the existing provisions with substantial costs to revenue. The amendment will not affect rebates for dependants temporarily overseas who continue to be residents of Australia for taxation purposes. Nor will it affect rebates for wives and children awaiting migration to Australia. As the rebate is being discontinued as from  1  November  1978,  a partial rebate, equal to one-third of the rebate otherwise allowable on a full-year basis, will be allowed for qualifying dependants who were non-residents in the period up to  3 1  October  1978. 
Gifts to World Wildlife Fund Australia 
The World Wildlife Fund Australia is to be brought within the gift provisions of the income tax law so that donations of  $2  or more to the fund will be tax deductible. 
Health insurance levy 
As part of the major changes to health care arrangements announced in my Budget Speech the health insurance levy is to be terminated with effect from  1  November  1978.  Measures to give effect to this proposal are included in this Bill and in the associated Health Insurance Levy Bill  1978.  People who are fully covered by private health insurance or other arrangements during the period  1  July  1 978  to  3 1  October  1 978  will be exempt from the levy for  1978-79.  Those who are not so exempt will pay levy on their taxable incomes for the whole of  1978-79,  but at a rate equal to one-third of the full year rate of  2.5  per cent and subject to levy ceilings equal to onethird of those that have applied for a full year. 
Calculations of 1978-79 provisional tax 
Provision is made in the Bill for the amount of the temporary increase of  1  Vi  per cent in the standard rate for  1978-79  to be taken into account in calculating provisional tax for that period. The health insurance levy component of provisional tax is to be reduced by two-thirds of the amount payable for  1977-78  so as to reflect the abolition of the levy as from  1  November  1978. 
Tax avoidance 
A feature of this Government's tax policy has been a vigorous assault on tax avoidance practices. As I said in my Budget Speech 'the time is long since past when governments or the community should tolerate the blatant, artificial and contrived means whereby certain sections of the community seek to pay little or no tax to the detriment of the general body of taxpayers and the equity of the tax system'. The pressure against tax avoidance will be resolutely maintained this financial year. As new forms of tax avoidance are identified, announcements indicating that appropriate legislation is to be introduced will be made and that legislation will be effective from the date of such announcements. 
It is impossible to quantify precisely the cost to revenue of tax avoidance schemes and practices. However, there can be little doubt that the actions of this Government in recent months have prevented a loss to revenue of hundreds of millions of dollars. During the past  12  months alone, the Government has introduced or foreshadowed legislation dealing with many tax avoidance practices including the following: The so-called Curran scheme, current year losses, abuse of averaging provisions, dividend stripping, trust stripping, pre-paid rent and interest, abuse of gift provisions, share trading loss schemes, sales tax avoidance practices and schemes involving the abuse of deductions for mortgage payments, trading stock and interest and rent. 
The Government believes there is widespread community support for action to curb tax avoidance. Tax avoidance on the scale practised in recent years has been an affront not only to the average wage earner who has little capacity to participate in such schemes but also to numerous high income earners who, having both the capacity and the incentive to participate in such schemes, have consciously chosen not to do so. The warning to those who promote tax avoidance schemes should be clear enough. This Government is determined to clamp down on those schemes as vigorously as possible. 
Conclusion 
Details of the various measures in the Bill are contained in the explanatory memorandum that is now being circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the Income Tax (Rates) Act  1976  which declares the rates of tax payable by individuals and trustees and includes provision for the automatic indexation of these rates in consequence of movements of the consumer price index. The main feature of the Bill is the increase in the standard rate of personal income tax for the  1978-79  financial year from  32  per cent to  331/2  per cent. The general rate of tax applicable to the amount of taxable income from  $ 1 6,609  to  $33,2 16  will also increase from  46  per cent to  471/2  per cent, while that applicable to taxable income in excess of  $33,216  will increase from  60  per cent to  6 11/2  per cent. The increase is a temporary measure and the Bill provides that it will not continue beyond the end of this financial year. 
The increase will be reflected in higher payasyouearn deductions as from  1  November  1978.  These are to be raised by the amount necessary to collect the full year's increase in tax in the period between  1  November  1978  and  30  June  1979.  Provisional tax for  1978-79  will also be adjusted to include the11/2 per cent rate increase. Other amendments to be effected by the Bill are consequential upon the changes to the averaging provisions proposed in the Bill that I have just introduced. Under the existing averaging provisions, an average rate of tax is declared for application to the taxpayer's taxable income. Under the new arrangements a taxpayer to whom the averaging provisions apply will be taxed at the ordinary rates of tax. This tax will then be reduced by a rebate equal to the tax saving that would result if the average tax rate were applied to primary production income or income treated as primary production income. Details of the changes proposed by the Bill are contained in the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated and I do not think it is necessary for me to elaborate further at this stage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will impose income tax for  1978-79  on the  1977-78  incomes of companies, and the  1978-79  incomes of superannuation funds, at the rates declared by the Bill. With one exception, the rates declared by the Bill are the same as those declared for  1977-78  and the provisions of the Bill follow the same lines as in earlier years. The only rate change proposed is for superannuation funds which are taxed in accordance with section  121DA  of the Assessment Act. These funds, which are broadly in the nature of accumulation trusts, are taxed at a rate equal to the maximum rate of personal tax and, in consequence of the proposed temporary increase of  11/2  per cent in the rates of personal income tax for  1978-79,  the rate of tax applicable to the income of these funds is to be increased from  60  per cent to  6 11/2  per cent for the  1 978-79  financial year. Details of provisions of the Bill are contained in the explanatory memorandum that has been circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill imposes health insurance levy, at the rate declared in the Bill, on taxable incomes for 1978-79 of individual taxpayers liable to the levy. I announced in my Budget Speech that, under new health care arrangements, the health insurance levy is to cease to apply as from 1 October 1978. Reflecting the fact that the levy is to apply for only one-third of the year, the rate of levy, to apply to taxable income for the whole of the year, is to be 0.833 per cent, that is, one-third of the 2.5 per cent rate which applied for the full 1977-78 year. Consistent with that, the proposed levy ceilings, which limit the amount of levy payable, will be $50 for a single person and $ 100 for a person with dependants, that is, one-third of the ceilings of $150 and $300 respectively which applied in 1977-78. 
Under provisions applying in 1977-78, people who were adequately covered by private health insurance or other arrangements for the whole of the year were exempt from the levy. For 1978-79 people will be exempt from the levy if they have adequate private cover for the whole of the period from 1 July 1978 to 31 October 1978. Details of the features of the Bill are contained in the explanatory memorandum that has been circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following statistical collections have been discontinued or reduced during the period December 1 975 to date: 
The monthly survey of aggregate import orders has been abandoned. 
Unlisted companies have been excluded from capital raising statistics. 
The annual survey of labour turnover has been abandoned. 
The frequency of collection of data on production of some manufacturing commodities has been reduced. 
Annual collection of data of materials used by manufacturing establishments has shifted to a quinquennial basis. 
The annual census of manufacturing enterprises now seeks only limited data from enterprises with only one establishment and employment of less than four persons. These small businesses are also excluded from the monthly and quarterly surveys of manufacturing production. 
The planned program of input-output tables was reduced during 1976-77 but restored during 1977-78. 
ACT and NT retail censuses have shifted from an annual to 2-3 yearly basis. 
A wholesale trade census planned to be conducted in respect of 1 977-78 was not conducted. 
Preliminary processing of the 1976 Census of Population and Housing produced a count of the population classified by age, sex, marital status and birthplace. Subsequent processing was deferred until 1977-78 when private dwelling schedules were processed on a 50 per cent sample basis. 
The number of data items collected in the agricultural census has been reduced. Some small businesses have also been excluded from the scope of the collection. 
The frequency of the agricultural finance survey will be reduced from an annual basis to a triennial basis after the conduct of the 1 977-78 Survey. 
The planned 1979-80 household income and expenditure survey has been abandoned. 
The quarterly and annual job vacancy surveys have been abandoned. 
Further foreign participation studies have been abandoned. 
Publication of national aggregates relating to road traffic accidents is being reduced to total number of accidents, total number injured and total number killed. 
It is not possible to say what amounts would have been allocated by the Australian Statistician to each statistical program undertaken by the ABS, had the total amount made available to the ABS been greater. 
Disclosure of Contents of Letter Stamped 'Secret' (Question No. 2122) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 1972  (Hansard,  21 September 1978, page 1338). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1), (2) and (3) Official holdings of US dollars, sterling (to July 1976), and gold for the period from end December 1975 to end May 1978, together with the information sought concerning gold prices are set out in the table below: 
I cannot confirm or deny some of the per capita calculations that the honourable member for Reid has made. I will do that and see whether there is anything useful that should be conveyed to him.  His  question gives me the opportunity of saying quite directly and quite simply that a substantial overseas borrowing program has been part of this Government's external policies for some time. My colleague, the present Minister for Finance, announced a substantial borrowing program last year. The desirability and appropriateness of such a program was reaffirmed earlier this year in a statement that I made. It was reaffirmed in the Budget. It is entirely appropriate that a country such as Australia should on official account borrow substantial sums from overseas conformably with the type of economic strategy that we are pursuing at the present time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of sales tax paid or payable in respect of sales of sporting goods are not available. However, based on the information available it is estimated that the amount payable in respect of sales of equipment for gymnastics, athletics, sport and outdoor games (including arms and ammunition but excluding boats, bicycles and other sporting or recreational vehicles) is about $30m per annum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have no objection to tabling the information referred to in the honourable member's question and will arrange to have the relevant documents tabled as soon as possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 1972  (Hansard,  21 Sep:tember 1978, page 1338). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Loan Council has met on 8 occasions since December 1972. 
The dates are: 103rd meeting-28-29 June 1973. 104th meeting-7 June 1974. 105th meeting-14 February 1975. 106th meeting-19 June 1975. 107th meeting-10 June 1976. 108th meeting-15 December 1976. 109th meeting-1 July 1977. 1 10th meeting-22-23 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner has many discretions under the income tax law and it is not practicable to set out all the criteria he uses to exercise them. He is, however, constrained to exercise his discretionary powers reasonably and in accordance with law. Opinions formed by the Commissioner in exercising discretionary powers can be reviewed by Taxation Boards of Review and, in some circumstances, by the Courts. 
Commissioner of Taxation: Reports to the Parliament (Question No. 1668) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner of Taxation has a statutory obligation to furnish annually to the Treasurer, for presentation to Parliament, a report on the working of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The form of the report including the taxation statistics supplement fully complies with that obligation. While the contents of this comprehensive report are largely for the Commissioner to determine, one of the important matters he must keep in mind is the requirement of the law not to disclose details of any individual taxpayer's affairs, except in a case involving a breach or evasion of the Act. 
Section1 36 of the Income Tax Assessment Act permits the Commissioner to assess tax on a taxable income greater than that returned by a taxpayer within a designated class if, in his opinion, this course should be taken. If the Commissioner takes that course his action does not carry with it the implication that the return lodged breached the income tax law in any way. Taxpayers within the designated class are legally obliged only to disclose the taxable income actually produced. It is on the basis of that, in conjunction with other information available to him from the taxpayer or other sources, that the Commissioner forms an opinion under section 136. 
Relatively few assessments are raised each year pursuant to section 136. In the Commissioner's view, publication of separate details of those cases in his Report could lead to identification of the taxpayers concerned and thus breach the secrecy provisions of the income tax law. The cases are therefore included with the appropriate industry groupings in the statistical information relating to companies generally. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Wherever possible revenue effects have been stated in respect of matters on which the Government has, in its vigorous program of action against tax avoidance, already taken action. When further action is taken on other matters at present under consideration this information will be given to the extent that it is available. It is not customary to make Cabinet Submissions and kindred confidential reports available to members. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (3) I discussed staff ceilings for the Australian Bureau of Statistics with the Australian Statistician and after a review of the forward work program proposed by the ABS and of the consequences for that work program of various levels of staff in the year ahead, a staff ceiling was set that required some curtailing ofthe program. 
Reviews of numbers engaged on the following programs will be undertaken during 1978-79: public finance, agriculture, construction, transport, mining, internal trade and manufacturing. Projects deleted from the 1978-79 work program are preparations for a household income and expenditure survey, quarterly and annual job vacancy surveys, and statistics of foreign participation in particular sectors of the Australian economy. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As you are aware, the Government's commitment to continuing financial constraint means that all departments and authorities have been required to exercise a very critical scrutiny of all their activities and to explore ways and means of redeploying limited resources to best effect. 
After a review of the forward work program proposed by the Bureau of Statistics and of the consequences for that work program of various levels of staff in the year ahead, a staff ceiling was set that required some curtailing of this program. 
The decision to discontinue particular collections took into account the nature of those collections: it was necessary to choose self-contained projects so that their termination would not have major repercussions on any related projects and therefore on users, and it was also necessary for the chosen projects to be small to medium in size so that it was possible not to concentrate the whole of the impact on one sector. After consideration of Ministerial views on alternative ways of curtailing the proposed statistical program, the Statistician decided that studies relating to foreign ownership and control of Australian industry and the job vacancies collection should be terminated. 
Australian Atomic Energy Commission: Objections to Funding from Taxation Revenue  (Question No. 1684) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No record can be found in the Australian Taxation Office of a taxpayer having written and conscientiously objected to making any contribution to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Nor is any taxpayer known to have withheld payment of tax for this reason. 
No record can be found in the Australian Taxation Office of any taxpayer having objected to the use of taxation contributions for nuclear research. 
It is the duty of the Australian Taxation Office to collect tax legally payable by taxpayers. There is no provision in the Income Tax Assessment Act for release from payment on account of conscientious objection. 
Retirement of the  Hon.  L. H. Barnard as Ambassador to Sweden (Question No. 1696) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Plans for an economic census of wholesale trade in respect of 1977-78 were abandoned. 
Plans for a household income and expenditure survey in respect of 1979-80 have been abandoned. The quarterly and annual job vacancy surveys and further foreign participation studies have been discontinued. The agricultural finance survey will be conducted on a triennial, rather than annual, basis after the 1977-78 survey. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
I thank the honourable member for Hawker for drawing my attention to the newspaper article to which he referred. 
Because of the secrecy provisions of the income tax law, the Commissioner of Taxation is unable to divulge any information relating to the affairs of  Mr Maher  or any other person. 
The Commissioner informed me, however, that all available administrative means are used to enforce the taxation laws. 
My attention has been drawn to those reports. The short answer to the second part of the honourable member's question is no. The Budget deficit for the first three months of this financial year is $2,50 lm and it is to be expected that in the normal pattern of seasonal developments that will get greater until later on in the financial year when of course it will reduce. There are a number of special reasons why the deficit appears a little larger in the first three months than on a superficial examination would be consistent with the Budget estimates. For example, the effect on the revenue side of the taxation increases does not become apparent until 1 November when increased deductions through the pay-as-you-earn system will commence. The increased collections of customs and excise have not been fully reflected. In addition, there have been a number of areas where payments to schools and tertiary institutions have boosted outlays simply because of the timing of those payments occurring in the first three months. 
There has been the payment in full of the tax sharing entitlements of local government authorities under the tax sharing arrangements in the first quarter whereas in the same quarter in 1977-78 some $60m of those entitlements was not paid until after that quarter. Because of the changed administrative arrangements for the Northern Territory there has been a bunching effect so far as payments to the Northern Territory are concerned during the first three months. Overall, in respect of those reports, I would say that to read into the figures for the first three months significant evidence that there has been a substantial departure from the Budget estimates is quite erroneous and quite misleading. I believe that the figures produced to date do not support those suggestions. 
There are few subjects which require such sensitive and non-rhetorical treatment as those involving the international credit of this country and the operation of this country's external economic policy, as this subject does. This matter of public importance is about the alleged failure of the Government to justify its overseas borrowing program. I thought it interesting that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  canvassed our borrowing program almost as an afterthought, doing so about two-thirds of the way through his speech. 
If one were listening to a debate on this subject for the first time, one could be forgiven for believing that the Opposition had just discovered that it is part of the policy of this Government to borrow substantial amounts overseas on official account. There is nothing new about this policy. This policy has been in place. It has been stated publicly as being in place. It has been frequently referred to and frequently reaffirmed by spokesmen for this Government over a period of about 18 months. I take the honourable member for Adelaide back to a statement that was made by my predecessor, the right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  on 25 August 1977 when he announced an on-going borrowing program by the Government and to a statement made on 27 September 1977 by the then Minister Assisting the Treasurer in which he announced borrowings of about $850m over and above that on-going borrowing program. On 5 February this year I issued a detailed statement on Australia's external economic position. The statement read: 
The Treasurer said that he wanted to make it quite clear that, should any additional supplementation of Australia's international reserves be required in support of the Australian dollar, the Government would not hesitate to undertake substantial further borrowings over and above this planned program. 
Through the latter half of 1977-78, as the honourable member for Adelaide well knows, this Government continued to borrow significant sums on official account. So the first thing I would say to the House is that there is nothing new about the fact that this Government is borrowing substantial sums on official account to supplement our reserves. Suggestion that the Opposition has flushed out and discovered something that we have been concealing from the Australian people makes me think that it is Rip Van Winkle from Adelaide who has been completely oblivious to what has been happening in the conduct of this country's external economic policies over the past 18 months. We have made no secret of the fact that, given current economic circumstances and pending the resumption of higher levels of private capital inflow, it is entirely appropriate that this Government should borrow significant amounts on official account. The fact that we are able to borrow these amounts should be, in one respect anyway, a matter of some satisfaction. It indicates the enormous respect in which the Australian Government and this country are held. It indicates, I suggest, the respect that the policies which are being pursued at the present time by this Government are attracting. The credit worthiness of this country in international money institutions ought to be a matter of satisfaction and not a matter of carping whingeing criticism. 
As a second proposition I say to the House that not only is there no secret- and there has not been any secret for the past 18 months- that it is part of our policy to borrow significant amounts overseas, but it is an indication of the international credit worthiness of Australia, and it is something which is wholly consistent with the economic circumstances of Australia at the present time. It is something that we believe is to the benefit of the Australian economy in the present circumstances. Nobody denies, as indeed the honourable member for Adelaide pointed out, that we live in a very difficult trading world. I think he recognises that, as the Opposition spokesman on trade matters. It is something that my colleague the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has referred to frequently. We do live in difficult international trading circumstances. 
One of the great problems of this country remains our lack of international competitiveness. I do not think the honourable member for Adelaide wants me to remind him too frequently of what our lack of international competitiveness is all about. It is all about the fact that the domestic cost structure of this country is still far too high. The principal reason it is far too high is that a few years ago we started to pay ourselves more money than in effect our productivity justified, and we are still suffering the consequences. If the honourable member wants to know the real reason we do not have a more comfortable differential between imports and exports then I would put to him that it is the cumulative effect of the way in which our international competitiveness has declined. 
The adjustment is a slow process and the adjustment process is further compounded by the general sluggishness of world trade, a sluggishness which, on all the indications, is not going to disappear quickly. The situation is going to improve slowly and in the meantime there is a strong imperative on this Government to do what it can not just to equal the economic and trading performance of our partners with which comparisons legitimately can be made but to try to out-perform our trading partners, to have a tougher and more competitive domestic economy, to be more successful in reducing our domestic cost structure and to be more successful in reducing our rate of inflation. Those are the objectives to which our economic policies are directed. But in the meantime it is necessary for us to have appropriate external economic policies- external policies that recognise the difficulties of the world trading scene. 
This country for many years has been a net importer of capital, as the honourable member for Adelaide knows. There is nothing new about the fact that the Government of this country borrows money overseas on official account to supplement our reserves.lt is something that has occurred not just in the last 18 months; it is something that governments from time to time have done. I would just like to put a few facts on the table about the size and scope of those borrowings because the honourable member for Adelaide mentioned $324 as being the per person debt after the completion of the latest yen package. That figure is correct. I do not dispute that figure but I put it in context. I point out to the honourable member that after the present package of yen borrowings has been completed the Commonwealth's external debt will amount to about 5 per cent of the gross domestic product compared with 6.5 per cent of our GDP a decade ago. Was anybody saying a decade ago that 6.5 per cent of our GDP was too great an external debt? Does the honourable member for Adelaide know that the percentage of GDP to our external debt now is lower than it was 10 years ago? Does he realise that the relevant percentage for export income in 1977-78 is 38.3 per cent whereas 10 years ago it was 53.2 per cent? Did he lay those facts on the table? Did he come clean with the Parliament and the Australian people when he talked in rhetorical terms about the $324 per head debt? Did he come clean with those figures? I suggest to the honourable member that if we are to have a serious debate about a serious subject that affects us all on both sides of the House we ought to put all of the facts on the table. I think some of these facts are extremely relevant. 
I point out to the honourable member for Adelaide that of course the question of exchange fluctuations so far as international borrowings are concerned is important. I think the House might want to know- and this is particularly relevant in respect of the yen borrowing- that an analysis of the composition of the Commonwealth's overseas debt by foreign currencies reveals that prior to the recent yen package- and I will come to the situation after the yen packagethe break-up was as follows: United States dollars, 46 per cent; Deutsche mark, 26 per cent; yen, 6 per cent; Swiss francs, 12 per cent; and Dutch guilder, 7 per cent. As a result of the recent yen borrowing the yen component will be 19.7 per cent, which is significantly below the denomination of our overseas debt in United States dollars. I think that these are facts of which the House ought to be aware. 
I would just like to dwell on two other things. Firstly, the honourable member for Adelaide is concerned about capital going out of Australia. That is a very legitimate concern for an Opposition spokesman on trade matters. If ever anything was calculated to drive overseas capital out of this country it was the alternative budget proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
Hayden), a budget which would have destroyed the anti-inflationary strategy that this Government has followed over the past two-and-a-half years, a budget which would have renewed suspicion by overseas investors that this country had lost its economic nerve as far as getting the fundamentals right and a budget which would have renewed wage pressures. It spent about a paragraph and a half on wages policy and what was said about wages policy represented complete non-recognition of the facts of economic life. If ever an economic policy is calculated to undermine this country's international economic respectability it is one which ignores the reality that until we get the fundamentals of this economy right, and unless we have the nerve to persevere with getting them right, we are not going to survive and prosper in extremely difficult world economic conditions. 
The second thing that I would like to say about the speech of the honourable member for Adelaide is that he referred only fleetingly to the activities of the former Government in the area of overseas loans. I do not want to go into that in detail- far be it from me to do so- but let me say two things very quickly about it. As he well knows, it was not just a question of the relevance of borrowings of that order to policy at the time that concerned the then Opposition. It was the lack of orthodoxy, the possibly lack of legality and the odd way in which a country, which had proven before that and has proven since that it can be a successful borrower in an orthodox manner on official account, acted through little known intermediaries. It was the presence of those elements which caused the then Opposition its principal concern. Surely the honourable member for Adelaide does not suggest for a moment that one can draw any comparison at all between what occurred then and what has occurred now. Of course, the borrowing program of the present Government is done in accordance with the most orthodox, proper and legal means, and any suggestion that any comparison can be drawn between the activities of some of his former ministerial leaders and what has occurred over the past 18 months is not really doing the honourable member for Adelaide justice or credit. 
I conclude simply by saying that over the past 18 months this Government has followed a policy of borrowing substantial amounts on official account to supplement our international reserves. That policy is both appropriate and desirable in current circumstances. It is consistent v,:th the objects of our external policy, having regard to the difficulties and restraints under which we are operating. Naturally the Government believes that there should be no secret about the need to do this in circumstances that require it. We have not been flushed out on this subject. We have been totally open about both the reasons for and the size of our international borrowings. As long ago as 20 months or more the Government made it clear that we would be embarking upon a substantial program of overseas borrowings. We gave our reasons then and we repeated them earlier this year. They were referred to again in the Budget Speech and they are constantly referred to when announcements of overseas borrowings are made by the Government. So far from there being any lack of explanation by this Government, I do not believe that the honourable member for Adelaide has made out a case for explanation. 
I welcome the question from the honourable member for Ballarat because it gives me the opportunity to say a couple of things about this subject and to put to rest much of the misunderstanding and confusion that has been generated in sections of the building industry. Frankly, I am at a loss to understand why it should have been generated. Two things were announced at the time of the presentation of the Budget. Firstly, there were two relatively minor amendments to the existing pay-as-you-earn provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act to overcome court exposed deficiencies in those provisions. Secondly, the Government announced that it would carry out an investigation as to the feasibility and the desirability of extending the pay-as-you-earn system to sections of the building and construction industry, the purpose in mind being to investigate whether such an extension could suitably occur to reduce the incidence of tax escaping through the payment of cash remunerations. I think honourable gentlemen will be aware of the circumstances in which that can occur. 
I want to make it quite clear to the honourable member for Ballarat that at no stage did the Government intend, nor does it intend, that there be a general extension of the pay-as-you-earn system to affect sub-contractors in the building industry from 1 November. I am at a loss to understand how representatives of the building industry could assert that this was the Government's intention. It may have been possible for the minor amendments to which I have referred to come into effect from 1 November but it was not possible to include them in the omnibus tax legislation that is now before the Parliament. As a consequence, the timing of those amendments will be taken up in the general review to which I have referred. 
Of course the Government would not contemplate extending this system in the manner in which the honourable gentleman has described without adequate consultation with those in the industry who would be affected. Indeed, last night I met the Federal representatives of the Master Builders Association and I will be more than happy to meet other industry representatives. I want to make it quite clear that the Government will conduct a very careful and sensible investigation as to whether this type of system ought to be introduced. There are arguments for and against it. Some of the criticisms of it which have been raised have been unfounded. I believe that if those in the building industry who have expressed some of this unjustified concern carefully read the Budget Speech and the accompanying statement and carefully analyse the material I am giving in this answer they will have a better and more sensible appreciation of what the Government has in mind. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I consider that the answer I gave to question No. 1 665 was entirely appropriate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in the  Hansard of  19 September 1978 (page 1174). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in the  Hansard of  19 September 1978 (page 1174). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The ratio of 'dutiable' imports (estimated as total imports of goods on a recorded trade basis less government imports, civil aircraft and petroleum imports) to total imports of goods for the years 1971-72 to 1977-78 was as follows: (This concept of dutiable imports differs from that presented by the Statistician in his Customs Clearances at Specified 
Rates of Duty issued annually, but which for 1977-78 will not be available for some months). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The use of imports by industry is analysed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in preparing input/output tables. The latest year for which input/output statistics have been published is 1968-69 and provisional estimates for 1974-75 are expected to be published early in 1 979. In 1 968-69 39 per cent of imports cif were used as intermediate inputs of manufacturing industry. Imports used in stock accumulation and capital expenditure are not available by industry. However total usage of such imports by all sectors was 1 5 per cent. The total proportion of imports used by manufacturing industry is not available. 
The proportion of these inputs subject to tariffs is not known to the ABS. However, of the value of imports used as intermediate inputs of manufacturing industry 6 per cent represented the value of duties paid. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no single measure of the interest differential between medium term borrowing rates in Australia and the United States of America. Interest rates paid by borrowers tend to vary in relation to term, credit ratings, sources of finance, security, etc The following yields represent no more than a broad guide to interest rate levels in each market: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1975-55,187; 1976-50,666; 1977-40,779. (b) 1975- 352; 1976-231; 1977-443. (c) 1975- nil; 1976- nil; 1977-1. (d) 1 975- nil; 1976-6; 1977-nil. (e) 1975-2; 1976- 2; 1977-1. 
(a) 1975-26,844; 1976-25,959; 1977-22,836. (b) 1975-301. (d) 1976-299. (e) 1977-305. 
Separate statistics are not maintained for convictions under sections 227, 230 and 23 1 . 
1975-nil; 1976- nil; 1977-1. 
In a number of cases proceedings have been discontinued after service of a summons; in others service of a summons has not been achieved. Statistics are not kept, but these discontinuances, together with proceedings finalised in a year subsequent to service of the summons, account for the difference in the numbers stated in the answers to questions (l)and(2). 
One in 1977 under section 229. 
427. 
5) In addition to the number of staff mentioned in answer to the pervious question, other staff are deployed as necessary to enable the annual work load to be met. 
7,853,000. 
7,413,621. 
Use of Imports by Industry (Question No. 1770) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no taxation concessions available specifically for experimental or demonstration solar energy devices. Deductions would be allowable for depreciation and investment allowance where a solar energy device was owned and used by a taxpayer for the purpose of producing assessable income or for carrying on a business. If the device represented plant and was used solely for scientific research purposes an accelerated rate of depreciation would apply. Where the device was built into and formed part of a building used solely for scientific research purposes any expenditure so incurred may be written off over three years. A manufacturer of solar energy devices would be exempt from sales tax in respect of any such devices installed for the purpose of carrying out scientific research in relation to manufacturing operations conducted by him or used in the course of manufacturing goods. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Incidence of Lung Cancer and Leukaemia in Oenpelli Region (Question No. 1846) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The increase in average weekly earnings assumed for the purpose of the 1977-78 Budget revenue estimates was 10.5 per cent. The present estimate of the increase in average weekly earnings in 1977-78 is 9.75 per cent. It is not possible to state the precise effects of this difference on revenue collections, but had an assumption of 9.75 per cent been built into the 1977-78 Budget estimates, the revenue estimate would have been lower by approximately $ 1 10m. 
The possible exemption from sales tax of that particular device was amongst a large number of requests for exemption received by the Government over the year leading up to the preparation of the Budget and it was listed for consideration. As I think the honourable gentleman is aware, no decision to exempt it was made and, as a result, no such decision was announced in the Budget. Perhaps the honourable gentleman ought to bear in mind that successive governments have taken the view that assistance for disadvantaged people and for aids and devices which assist those who are in a disadvantaged position is best provided on an explicit basis rather than through the taxation system. I think the honourable gentleman would be able to find quite a large number of examples where governments of both persuasions have taken the view that if some special assistance is needed it is better for it to be given on an explicit basis rather than through the taxation system. As to the second part of the question about Braille typewriters, I frankly do not know the answer to that. I will find out and let the honourable gentleman know. 
-I think that the honourable gentleman is aware of the statement I made early in June. Perhaps it did not fit the criteria of being a consolidated statement but it was not scant in the sense that we did not spell out at that time the basis of the changes. 
-I will consider whether there is merit in making a further statement to the House about the changes in the foreign investment policy. 
The honourable gentleman will know that in my statement I indicated that we were considering procedural changes relating to certain aspects of our foreign investment policy and that some further consultation, particularly on legal implications, was needed. The Leader of the Opposition, by way of interjection, asked me whether any legislation was involved. No legislation is required for the guidelines. Possibly some technical changes to the Foreign Takeovers Act will be required. As both honourable gentlemen would know, the substance of the policy changes did notaffect the Foreign Takeovers Act but rather the foreign investment guidelines. I will seriously consider the honourable gentleman's question. The Government has no desire whatever to inhibit debate on foreign investment and welcomes the Opposition's interest in the subject. 
-The Government has under consideration at present the possibility of amending the provisions of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The honourable gentleman would not want me to relate the history of that particular section. Simply put, through progressive interpretations it has been given a more reduced meaning than was originally intended when it was inserted. Whilst I am happy to say that the Government is considering very seriously a possible re-write of section 260, it is not an easy matter and it ought not to be assumed, given interpretations of revenue statutes, that it is simply a question of re-arranging some of the words of section 260.I simply conclude by saying that the Government welcomes the interest of members of the Opposition in a subject about which they did nothing for three years when they were in government. 
-The interest rate that has been announced in respect of the Primary Industry Bank ought to be seen first in the context that the Bank will be providing a refinancing facility. Secondly, it ought to be seen in the light of the fact that one of the principal purposes of the Bank is to make available much longer term loans to primary producers than is the situation at present. Bearing in mind those two points and also the rate charged for loans of a comparable magnitude by banks at present, I think it is quite fair to claim that the interest rate that has been established is better than might otherwise have been the case. The Government, through the use in part of income equalisation deposit funds, has given to the Bank a facility to provide a concessional rate. Naturally, the question of what is a concessional rate will vary from time to time, according to what is available elsewhere in the banking system. The Government believes that, taking all of those things into account, and particularly the fact that the Bank will meet a longheld desire on the part of the rural community to consolidate indebtedness and obtain longer term loans, the Bank will make a major contribution to improving the financial facilities that are available to Australia's primary producers. 
-The honourable gentleman will be aware that in their 1975 policy speech the Government parties indicated that they saw merit in an inquiry being made into the Australian capital market. It would be a very foolish Treasurer, living in a Utopia, who would say that he was completely satisfied with the functioning of any capital market. The question whether, and in what form, an inquiry into the Australian capital market would be appropriate is under consideration at present. When I am in a position to give the House further information on that subject I will be happy to do so. 
One can debate many subjects with the Opposition and have a hearty exchange but there are few subjects to which I respond with more enthusiasm than a debate on the question of interest rates. If ever there was a party, both in government and more latterly in opposition, which demonstrated a disinterest in the level of interest rates in the Australian community it is the Australian Labor Party. I do not want to take up too much of the time of the House in reminding it of the level of interest rates that prevailed in December 1 972 and the long-term bond rate of 1972 and December 1975, because some of the honourable gentlemen opposite might interject that those dates were a few years ago. Having but fleetingly reminded the House of just what the Whitlam Government policies did to the level of interest rates during its three years in office, let me ask the House to consider for a moment what the Hayden alternative Budget which was delivered less than two months ago would have done to the level of interest rates in 1978. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  gave us some definitions of the forces which are applied to the level of interest rates. He said correctly that interest is the price of money. He said that it has a fair bit to do with supply and demand. I do not have any quarrel with that point. Of course what he did not say was that one of the areas in which the Government can affect in a very dramatic way the level of demand for money is the size of the demand that the Government itself makes on the provision of funds. He was completely silent about that point. Also, he did not say that the size of the Commonwealth Government's deficit does have some impact on the level of interest rates. He did not acknowledge, as he should have, that low deficits ease pressure on interest rates, that high deficits increase them. He did not remind the House that his alternative budget provided, on his own admission, for a deficit of some $3,500m or $3,600m. On our calculations I would argue that it would be significantly more, if only because of the unexplained gaps regarding the commencement dates of his resources and capital gains tax, and of his withdrawal of corporate tax concessions. 
Therefore if, as he argued only a few moments ago, the present monetary and economic policies of this Government make it impossible for interest rates to come down he must, by definition, be arguing that his alternative policy would force interest rates up. I would agree with him in that regard, because his alternative policies would force interest rates to go up very significantly. They would greatly increase the demands of government upon available loan funds and, under a Hayden alternative budget, there would be a significant increase in the long-term bond rate and, as a consequence, on private sector and other interest rates which affect the Australian people. 
Therefore, let us at the very outset get one thing clear. It is the Australian Labor Party that, by its deeds in government, by its alternative protestations in Opposition, is shown to be the high interest rate party in this country. Let there be no cavilling whatever about that. The Australian Labor Party, in its policy formation, is indifferent to the level of interest rates and the cost of money in the Australian community. That ought to be clear both from its performance in office and also from its alternative proposals whilst in Opposition. 
It is worthwhile to remind the House of just what has been achieved since this Government took office in regard to interest rates. As honourable members well know, it inherited an interest rate structure that had suffered significantly from the economic policies that had been followed by the Whitlam Government. I remind the House that since the middle of 1977, a period of slightly more than 12 months, the long-term bond rate has declined by more than 1.5 per cent. In the same period, the rate on Australian Savings Bonds has fallen by one per cent. Rates on borrowing and lending by major housing mortgage lenders have generally fallen by 0.5 per cent. The bulk of that fall occurred in Feburary of this year, after certain actions regarding official rates had been taken by the Government. 
For illustrative purposes I remind the House that recently the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd announced a debenture issue with a long-term rate below 10 per cent. It was the first such corporate issue since 1973 that had been below 10 per cent. I repeat: It was the first such corporate issue since 1973 that had been below 10 per cent. Those facts, as opposed to fantasy and rhetoric, demonstrate one thing: That the policies that have been followed by the Government have created market conditions in which reductions in interest rates have not only occurred but have done so on a sustainable basis. If indeed, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, it is all a question of supply and demand; if indeed it is all about market forces, then by his own definition this Government has followed policies which have produced much lower interest rates. The runs are on the board. Whatever he says about fine tuning over periods of time, the fact is that we have achieved these reductions during those periods of time. 
The House does well to remember his words of only a few moments ago, that it is all a question of market forces, of supply and demand. If indeed that is the case, we have created, by his own definition, the circumstances in which the forces of supply and demand and of the market have made possible those reductions in interest rates. The Leader of the Opposition was pessimistic about the prospects for further reductions in interest rates. I do not share that pessimism. I believe that the policies of this Government make further reductions possible. Out strategy is very much committed to creating circumstances in which further reductions can and will occur. We have made no secret of our view that the level of interest rates in this country is still too high, and we are prepared to follow policies which will make it possible for those rates to fall. 
The Leader of the Opposition quoted certain things that the Government had said. I remind him of a few of the things that he said towards the end of last year and in the early part of this year. On 1 December he said, in  The Policy Makers  program- he will remember it well because it was in the course of a debate that he had with me at the time:- 'They . . .' meaning interest rates '. . . can't come down . . . The market forces won't allow them to come down . . . The Government has sought to rig the market just to get it through the election.' I repeat: 'The Government has sought to rig the market just to get it through the election.' In February, following a reduction in some official interest rates, we saw the beginning of a general movement downwards in bank interest rates. Of course, the Leader of the Opposition could not restrain himself on that occasion either. On I February 1978, in a PAf broadcast, when being questioned about the downward movements in interest rates which had followed the official movements down, he said,  . . The Government is trying to impose cosmetic changes which just can't be sustained unless the Government changes its whole pitch of economic management.' What he was saying in February 1978 was that the interest rate reductions then under consideration could not be sustained. The truth of the matter is that those interest rate reductions have been sustained and will continue to be sustained. There was no question of cosmetic changes occurring. They represented real reductions in the level of interest on housing loans and were thoroughly responsible and thoroughly sustainable. 
Therefore, we should take with a fairly large grain of salt some of the remarks that have been made, both before the last election and when interest rates fell earlier this year, by the Leader of the Opposition. If indeed, as he says, it is all a question of market forces, of applying the appropriate policies in order to get interest rates down, the results that we have achieved show that the Government is applying policies which are conducive to bringing down the level of interest rates in Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition also placed considerable emphasis upon remarks that had been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  regarding downward movements in interest rates. During the course of the election campaign the Prime Minister did, of course, make predictions regarding movements in interest rates. Those predictions were responsibly made at the time. They were made against a background of a continuation of policies. If the Leader of the Opposition is serious about the cause of lower interest rates in Australia he ought to look at the policies which are being followed by his party, the alternative Budget strategy that he presented in August of this year. Stripped of all the rhetoric and partisan exchanges on this subject it is simply a question of determining those policies which are more likely to lead to a reduction of interest rates. I put it as strongly as possible to the House that the Opposition's proposal for a Budget which would involve a deficit, in our view of over $4,000m, which would involve a significant increase in the demand made by government on available funds, is a prescription which is totally opposed to the cause of lower interest rates. 
This Government, rightly in my view, has put a very heavy stress on the level of the Budget deficit. From time to time we have been accused by our opponents of being obsessed with the size of the deficit. The Leader of the Opposition knows as well as I do that the level of the deficit is highly relevant to the cause of interest rates in Australia and that it was in the period when Budget deficits in this country increased very dramatically and therefore increased the amount of money that governments borrowed from the public that the level of interest rates went up. In the long term, unless governments are prepared to grapple with and to bring under control the size of their deficits it will not be possible to have lower interests on a sustainable basis. Whether one looks at the experience of this country or countries overseas, the same story is to be found. 
The Government relishes a debate on interest rates because members of the Opposition demonstrated by their deeds when in government, and most recently in the last two months through their alternative Budget, that they do not have a commitment to the cause of lower interest rates in Australia. If they did, on their own definition, they would pursue different policies. Because the Leader of the Opposition has said that the question involves a matter of market forces he ought to recognise that his alternative Budget presented a prescription which would not bring about the conditions for lower interest rates. This Government has identifiable achievements in the area of reduction of interest rates and its policies can produce further improvements. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In an answer that I gave in this House on 27 September, and in a more detailed statement that I made later that day, I indicated that the Government had decided to put beyond doubt that employers are entitled to deductions for the cost of their employees' long service and other leave only at the time when payment for the leave is made. This Bill will give effect to that decision. 
The need for the amendment arises from a decision of the Supreme Court of Victoria in the case of Nilsen Development Laboratories Pty Ltd v. the Federal Commissioner of Taxation. In that decision, the Court held that an employer is entitled to a deduction for the cost of an employee's leave in the year in which the employee becomes entitled to the leave or in any year in which there is an accretion to a previously accrued leave liability, notwithstanding that no payment is made to the employee. Appeals against the Supreme Court decision have been lodged by the taxpayer concerned and the Commissioner of Taxation and, in the normal course of events, the Government would prefer to await the decision of an appellate court on such an important matter before considering an amendment of the law. However there are several important reasons why the Government has decided that on this occasion it should not wait for the appeal processes to be concluded. 
Firstly, the decision has significant revenue implications for the Government. If deductions for leave were to be allowed against 1977-78 income on the basis of the Supreme Court decision, the cost to revenue in the current year would be of the order of $600m. A revenue loss of such proportions in 1978-79 could not be contemplated. Secondly, the decision creates considerable uncertainty among taxpayers because of the disturbance of a practice that has long been regarded as settled, and has been accepted by the very great majority of taxpayers over past years. This uncertainty would continue until the appeals had been finally decided. Taxpayers would be aware that there must be a possibility that if one part of the original decision were upset on appeal- the part which indicates that deductions may be taken when payment is made for previously accrued leave- they could lose very substantial deductions in future years. 
The Bill specifies that the amendment allowing deductions for leave liabilities when payment is made is to apply in respect of assessments for the 1977-78 income year and subsequent years, other than assessments made before 28 September 1978. This will protect the revenue from the loss of up to $600m in 1978-79, but it will also ensure that employers do not lose deductions when employees are paid for leave which had previously accrued, and for which deductions had not been allowed. 
The amendment will not apply in respect of assessments yet to be raised in respect of earlier years and it will not apply to assessments already raised in respect of the 1977-78 and prior years where the taxpayers' rights are protected by way of objection or appeal to a court. The finalisation of these latter cases will have to await the decision of an appellate court, and it could well be that further amendments will be required when that decision is given. Although the nature of these further amendments will depend on the final decision of the court, it is envisaged that amendments may be necessary either to ensure that employers do not suffer any loss of deductions or to ensure that employers do not gain any double benefit-for example, by having had a deduction when payment is made and by also being found entitled to deductions at the time of accrual. 
The Government recognises that by providing for the amendment to apply to the 1977-78 income year it will be seen as having retrospective effect. For this reason, the Government was extremely reluctant to take this course. At the same time, it must be stressed that the amendment will not result in the loss of any deductions for taxpayers. It is a question only of the time at which that deduction becomes available. 
There are also the other aspects that I have mentioned- the fact that the amendment will do no more than restore previously long-accepted practice, the fact that it will guard against the possible loss of deductions and resolve the uncertainty arising from the decision and, finally, the significant revenue implications for 1978-79. Details of the Amendment are contained in the explanatory memorandum that is now being circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Martin)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. 
) The earlier answer was not evasive. 
Publication of Immigration Literature in Foreign Languages (Question No. 2380) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in the  Hansard of  today 's date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in the  Hansard  of today's date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in the  Hansard  of 27 September 1978, page 1477. 
Answer to Parliamentary Question 1666  (Question No. 2060)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1666. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1669 appeared in  Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1667. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have not established any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. However, I have continued two such committees; the Economic Consultative Group and the Government (Backbenchers') Treasury Committee. 
) The following members have attended meetings of the Economic Consultative Group chaired by me: the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the Minister for Finance, and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
The following members and senators are members of the Government (Backbenchers') Treasury Committee: J. M. Bradfield, M. E. Sainsbury, M. E. Baume, K. J. Aldred, R. A. Braithwaite, M. H. Bungey,  Hon  K. M. Cairns,  Hon  J. D. M. Dobie,  Dr H.  R. Edwards, G. O. H. Giles, J. M. Hyde, A. W. Jarman, S. A. Lusher, R. M. McLean, Rt  Hon Sir William  McMahon,  Senator A.  J. Messner, J. C. Moore, J. R. Porter, J. R. Short. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1668 appeared in  Hansard,  10 October 1978, pages 1666 to 1667. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1667 appeared in  Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1666. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in  the  Hansard  of 27 September 1978, page 1477. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
a decrease of approximately $240m; (b) a decrease of approximately $160m; (c) a decrease of approximately $80m; (d) an increase of approximately $80m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Industry Development Corporation; Commonwealth Banking Corporation; Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia; Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia; Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia; Foreign Investment Review Board; Reserve Bank of Australia; Australian Bureau of Statistics; Taxation Boards of Review; Valuation Boards. &lt;l 
Australian Industry Development Corporation- (a) and (b) When AIDC was established in 1970, Parliament appropriated for it capital of $ 100m to be paid in instalments in accordance with section 24 of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act. There were no payments to the Corporation from the Budget in 1975-76 and 1977-78. $12.5m was paid to the Corporation from the Budget in 1 976-77. It was one-line item in the Budget. 
In addition, amounts of $5.2m, $6.0m and $5. 7m were provided during 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78 respectively, to meet interest payments on borrowings of $US75m by the Commonwealth in 1974-75 on behalf of AIDC under the Loans (Australian Industry Development Corporation) Act 1974. These interest payments were recovered in full from AIDC as were payments on behalf of AIDC of $141,491 (1975-76), $44,177 (1976-77) and $3,571 (1977-78) for miscellaneous charges arising from the $US75m borrowing. These were all one-line items in the Budget. 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation- (a) and (b) Funds have been appropriated from time to time to the Commonwealth Development Bank (CDB). No funds have been appropriated to the other three bodies apart from an interest-bearing repayable advance to the Commonwealth Savings Bank in 1974-75 under the Banks (Housing Loans) Act 1974. $8m was appropriated to the CDB as an interestbearing repayable advance in 1975-76 as a one line item; there were no payments to the CDB in 1 976-77 or 1 977-78. 
Foreign Investment Review Board-(a) (i) $2,000; (ii) $6,900; (iii) $4,000. Provision is also made for the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  of the Board within Special Appropriation-Holders of Public Offices ( (Renumeration Act 1973) for the Department of the Treasury, (b) One line appropriation. 
Reserve Bank of Australia- No funds appropriated in the Budget. 
Australian Bureau of Statistics-(a) (i) $47,716,800; (ii) $59,373,300; (iii) $61,504,300. (b) The appropriation is broken up into divisions. 
Taxation Boards of Review-(a) (i) $109,000; (ii) $195,700; (iii) $174,400. (b) One line appropriation. Provision is also made for the  Chairman  and Members of the Boards within Special Appropriation-Holders of Public Offices (Renumeration Act 1973) for the Department of the Treasury. 
Valuation Boards- (a) and (b) Funds provided out of the administration votes of the Central Office of the Department of the Treasury. Provision is also made for the  Chairman  and Members of the Boards within Special AppropriationHolders of Public Offices (Renumeration Act 1973) for the Department of the Treasury. 
The Auditor-General. The Australian Industry Development Corporation also retains a firm of commercial auditors, .Arthur Young and Company, for the purpose of representing the Corporation to potential lenders. 
Australian Industry Development CorporationAustralian Industry Development Corporation Act 1 970. 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation- The Commonwealth Banks Act 1959 established the Corporation and the Commonwealth Development Bank and continued in existence the Commonwealth Trading Bank and the Commonwealth Savings Bank. The CTB was established in 1953 by the Commonwealth Bank Act 1953. The CSB was established by the Commonwealth Bank (Savings Bank) Act  of  1927. 
Foreign Investment Review Board- The Board was established on 8 April 1976 by administrative action following the former Treasurer's statement of 1 April 1976 on Foreign Investment in Australia. 
Reserve Bank of Australia- The Bank was established by Commonwealth legislation in 1911 as a body corporate with the name Commonwealth Bank of Australia. The Reserve Bank Act 1959 preserved and continued in existence the original corporate body under the new name Reserve Bank of Australia. 
Australian Bureau of Statistics- The Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics was established under the Census and Statistics Act 1905. The Australian Bureau of Statistics Act 1975, which was promulgated on 4 February 1 976 to take effect on 3 May 1976, constituted the Australian Bureau of Statistics to be the central statistical authority for the Australian Government and by arrangements with the Governments of the States, to provide statistical services for those Governments. 
Taxation Boards of Review- Income Tax Assessment Act 1925, section 50. The Boards are now authorised by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, section 178. 
Valuation Boards- Land Tax Assessment Act 1927, section 44. The Boards are now authorised by the Taxation Administration Act 1953, section 9. 
Australian Industry Development Corporation- An enquiry into AIDC is currently being undertaken by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation-No specific review or inquiry, which has been the subject of a report to Parliament, has been undertaken into the Corporation or the three banks. However, in accordance with the Commonwealth Banks Act, reports on the operations of the Corporation and its three constituent banks are furnished each year to the Treasurer and copies of the reports are tabled in Parliament. 
Foreign Investment Review Board- In June 1978 the Government reviewed its policy on foreign investment in 
Australia, including the operations of the Foreign Investment Review Board, on the basis of a report by an interdepartmental task group. The Government's decisions arising from that review were set out in my statement of 8 June 1978 to Parliament. 
Reserve Bank of Australia- No specific review or inquiry, ' which has been the subject of a report to Parliament, has been undertaken into the Reserve Bank. However, in accordance with the Reserve Bank Act a report on the operations of the Bank is furnished each year to the Treasurer and copies of the report are tabled in Parliament. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics- There has been no recent specific review or inquiry into the operations of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. However, in 1974 the Committee on Integration of Data Systems (Crisp Committee) conducted an inquiry into the need for greater co-ordination of official statistics and greater integration of official data systems throughout the Commonwealth Public Service. The Bureau, being the major supplier of official statistics to the Commonwealth Government, was the focal point of the inquiry. The report of the Committee was tabled in Parliament on 17 July 1974. 
Taxation Boards of Review- The last review was undertaken by the Taxation Review Committee 1972-75 (the Asprey Committee) paragraphs 22.22-22.34 of the full Report dated 3 1 January 1975 of that Committee refer. 
Valuation Boards- The last major review of the Boards was undertaken in 1952 when Commonwealth Land Tax was abolished. Departmental officers carried out the review. The decision to retain the Boards would have become known to Parliament during its deliberations on the Taxation Administration Bill 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In 1976-77, under the personal income tax sharing arrangements embodied in the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 and the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976, the States and their local government authorities were entitled to receive collectively and subject to certain guarantee arrangements 33.6 per cent and 1.52 per cent respectively of the Commonwealth 's net personal income tax collections of that year. The net personal income tax collections figure included collections from residents of the Territories but excluded the health insurance levy. Taxpayers were advised to this effect with their notices of assessment. 
Collections of income tax from individuals and PA YE made by the Australian Taxation Office located in Canberra City for 1976-77 were $200,632,66 1 . This amount, however, was not collected from residents of the Australian Capital Territory only. It includes amounts received from taxpayers located in a substantial area of New South Wales surrounding the Australian Capital Territory. (The area of New South Wales administered by the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in Canberra includes the Goulburn, Yass, Queanbeyan, Braidwood and Cooma districts as well as encompassing coastal localities from the Victorian border north to Ulladulla and all intervening areas). Conversely, some amounts collected in other branch Taxation Offices would relate to residents of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Residents of the Australian Capital Territory would represent in the vicinity of 60 per cent of the taxpayers administered by the ACT Taxation Office but separate tabulations of collections for the ACT are not maintained. 
The fact that the ACT does not participate in the present tax sharing arrangements, although residents contribute to the tax pool in which the States and local government share, does not imply that residents of the ACT are financially disadvantaged compared with residents of the States. The Commonwealth Government has provided a large subvention from its Budget each year under a variety of programs to finance the 'gap' between locally produced revenues and expenditures on government services in the Territory. These funds may be seen as analogous to Commonwealth funds received by the States and local government in the form of revenue (including income tax sharing entitlements) and capital grants, and approved Loan Council borrowing programs. The amount of the subvention has been such that residents of the ACT are not placed in an unfavourable position compared with residents of the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1667 which was first put on the Notice Paper on 1 5 August 1978 appeared in  Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1666. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1668 which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978 appeared in  Hansard,  10 October 1978, pages 1666-7. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1669 which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978 appeared in  Hansard.  10 October 1978, page 1667. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide ought to know that in the discharge of my ministerial responsibilities as Treasurer I am expressly precluded from access to the particular affairs of individual taxpayers. 
-by leave- Honourable members will recall that during my second reading speech on 8 June 1978 introducing the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978I foreshadowed the introduction of a foreign tax credit system for the taxation of overseas earnings of Australian companies and individuals. In that statement I indicated that the new system would apply in respect of income earned from and including 1978-79. One of the purposes of my foreshadowing introduction of the system was to elicit comment and submissions from those Australian companies and individuals who might be affected by the new system of taxing overseas earnings. 
Since my announcement, the Government has received a large number of submissions from a significant spectrum of the Australian business community. In the light of these submissions, the Government has decided not to proceed with the introduction of a foreign tax credit system as outlined in my statement of 8 June. In announcing this decision, I inform the House that the Government has come to the conclusion that, whilst there are significant arguments- based on the need for the tax system to be equitable and neutral in its impact- for the introduction of a foreign tax credit system to replace the existing taxation treatment of overseas earnings, these benefits are, in the view of the Government, outweighed by certain adverse consequences which might accrue from the introduction of a credit system. 
It is clear from the submissions we have received that many Australian companies see, as a direct consequence of a foreign tax credit system, an erosion of the competitive position of 
Australian companies overseas. There is particular concern that the system might have had an adverse effect on the level of Australian investment in countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations region. Australians employed overseas have also been concerned that, despite a partial exemption included in the proposed arrangements, the credit system would have put them at a disadvantage. 
Whilst the principal reason for the original proposal was that of permitting greater equity in the taxation treatment of companies which derived earnings outside Australia against those deriving earnings from within Australia, another motivation for the proposal was to reduce the opportunities which currently exist for tax avoidance through the diversion of income to low tax or no tax countries. Whilst, for the reasons I have outlined, the Government does not intend to proceed with the legislation for the proposed foreign tax credit system, it is, consistently with this decision, giving close attention to further measures specifically designed to reduce the scope for avoidance under the existing rules relating to taxation of earnings from international transactions. 
I present the following paper: 
Foreign Tax Credit System- Ministerial Statement, 25 October 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr  Killen) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-The nature of the question indicates a misapprehension on the part of the honourable member for Bonython as to the effect of the announcement I made yesterday about the Government's decision not to go ahead with the proposed foreign tax credit system. The impact of that decision on the revenue for 1978-79 would at most have been quite insignificant because, as the honourable member realises, most of the effect of the tax would have been in the company tax area and that would not have impacted, in a net sense, until the following year. I believe the honourable member has fallen into the error of a number of commentators in this area by making assumptions, too early in the piece, about the likely course of the Budget deficit for the current financial year. As the honourable member ought to know, it is a mistake to try to calculate the annual result on the basis of quarterly figures. The Budget estimates were prepared on certain assumptions that were set out in the Budget Papers. I believe that the Budget estimates were responsibly and professionally prepared and I am confident that, given the inevitable areas of imprecision that are involved in calculating revenue and expenditure in preparing any Budget estimates, the situation is on track. 
As a result of the post-Budget decisions on taxation of certain pensions and the withdrawal of the income test on the basis of the child 's income, there have been quite deliberate additions to the size of the Budget deficit. On recollection and subject to checking, those two proposals of themselves amount to slightly over $30m. The revision of the taxation of lump sum annual leave payments from the full rate of tax to a marginal rate of tax has no impact at all in revenue terms in 1978-79 because the original estimates were prepared on the basis that PA YE deductions at the standard rate only would occur. I think the honourable gentleman, like many other commentators in this area, is trying to exaggerate the situation and is trying to create unhelpful uncertainty where such is not justified. 
I am aware of expressions of opinion made by some business groups regarding the possible introduction of either a value added tax or a retail turnover tax. Because the situation has been unfortunately misrepresented by some spokesmen for some industry groups I make it quite clear to the House that the Government has made no in-principle decision one way or the other as to whether a broad based indirect tax should be introduced. We have decided that an inquiry should be conducted initially by the Taxation Office in consultation with various interest groups. Then, if the Government decides in the light of that inquiry to take the matter further, a discussion paper will be produced in order to provoke further community response and comment. 
I think it would be unfortunate if consideration of such a fundamental issue- that is whether there should be a shift in the mix of taxation in our community- were prejudiced by too vehement a criticism in reaction from those who hold views strongly on one side or other of the argument. I think it is important that a matter such as this should receive a thorough examination. I know some in the community view a retail turnover tax with a great deal of trepidation. Equally, there are others in the community who see a situation where personal taxation is lower and indirect taxation is higher as a very desirable state of affairs. I think it is important, in looking at our taxation system, that as far as possible we get away from the situation where taxation policy is looked at only at Budget time within the inevitable pressures of revenue adjustments that are involved at Budget time. I believe there is great value in having an examination out of the context of Budget preparation of the type of taxation system that we ought to have. I hope that the current inquiry produces a fair and representative response from the community, thus enabling the Government to take an informed decision after a balanced consideration of competing points of view. 
-As far as I can recollect without checking the quotes that the honourable gentleman has made from the Reserve Bank Statistical Bulletin are correct. This matter was the subject of a debate in this House a couple of weeks ago. I think that when the honourable gentleman quotes figures he ought to bear in mind that after the completion of the full three sections of the yen raising- that is, the two private placements and the public bond issue- the percentage of the overseas debt in relation to gross domestic product will be 5 per cent compared with 6.5 per cent 10 years ago and that the interest liability will be about 0.3 per cent, which is broadly equivalent to what it was 10 years ago. If the honourable gentleman wants a sensible examination by this House of the question of overseas borrowings, he ought to bear in mind that it has been the practice of this country to borrow significant amounts in an orthodox manner on official account over a long period. The reasons for our overseas borrowings are well known by this House and understood by the international business community. The capacity of this country to borrow large amounts on very favourable terms is testimony to the high regard in which we are held in international financial circles and a vote of confidence in the policies of this Government. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Primary Industry Bank Act 1977. Honourable members will be aware that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and I have announced that the Commonwealth has agreed to assist the Primary Industry Bank by making available to it $30m from the Income Equalisation Deposits Trust Account at an initial interest rate of 5 per cent. This Bill, which is largely machinery in nature, will facilitate the use of the IED Trust Account for that purpose. 
There have been a number of significant developments relating to the Primary Industry Bank since legislation on this matter was before the House earlier this year. The Primary Industry Bank of Australia Ltd was incorporated under the New South Wales Companies Act on 28 July 1978; it has an initial paid-up capital of $5. 625m shared in nine equal parts between the Commonwealth, the seven major trading banks and a combination of four State banks. A general manager and other staff for the Bank have been appointed and operational policies and procedures have been established. Information on various detailed aspects has already been released by the Bank, which expects to be in a position to commence lending operations shortly. 
The Bank was granted an authority to carry on banking business on 21 September 1978 and Part III of the Primary Industry Bank Act 1977, which brings the Bank under the provisions of the Banking Act 1959, was proclaimed to come into operation on the following day. The banking authority was granted subject to two conditionsone in effect restricting the Bank to a refinancing role in respect of loans to primary producers and the other restricting it to refinancing loans with a minimum term of eight years. 
The Minister and I have also announced that loans made by the banks and refinanced by the Primary Industry Bank will carry maximum interest rates to end borrowers of 10.5 per cent per annum for loans less than $ 100,000 and 12.5 per cent for loans of $100,000 and above. These maximum interest rates- and indeed all aspects of the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Bank- will be subject to review from time to time- at least annually in any event- in the light of general interest rate developments, budgetary considerations and any other relevant factors. 
Without entering here into detailed commentary on the debate that has already been engendered on the question of interest rates there are three points that I would like to make very briefly. First, the interest rates- I refer particularly to the 10.5 per cent- are concessional in that they are lower than would be possible in the absence of government financial assistance and lower than those generally available to primary producers from commercial sources for longterm loans. The fact that long-term loans will be available to primary producers at what are in effect short-term rates is highly significant given the benefits that accrue from access to such loans. Secondly, although the interest rate to be charged on the IED funds, at 5 per cent, is equal to the rate paid to depositors, it needs to be borne in mind that the effective return to depositorsand the cost to the Commonwealth- is much higher than the 5 per cent because of the accompanying tax benefits. Thirdly, the IED funds, although they will represent an important source of funds to the Bank, will be supplementary to market borrowings by the Bank on which rates much higher than 5 per cent will, of course, need to be paid. The establishment of the Bank and the provision of considerable government assistance enabling long-term borrowing with interest rates below those that would apply under commercial conditions brings to fruition the coalition parties' election commitments in this area. 
I turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill. The Commonwealth's power to make funds available to the Bank from the IED Trust Account is provided by section 8 of the Primary Industry Bank Act 1 977. The amendments in this Bill will enable that power to be used flexibly and in such a way that the interests of IED depositors are fully protected. The Bill provides, in clause 3, for amendments to section 8 of the Act by the replacement of the existing sub-sections (2) and (3) and the addition of three new subsections (5), (6) and (7). 
The existing sub-section (2) provides for loans to the Bank from the Trust Account. The proposed new sub-section (2) expands the provision to make it clear that such loans can be made in either of two ways- by investing funds standing to the credit of the account on deposit with the Bank or by paying moneys out of the account to the Bank. The Government proposes to make available the $30m referred to earlier in this speech in the former manner, that is, by placing funds held in the account on deposit with the Bank. Such transactions from the Trust Account are classified as a financing item more specifically, as a negative financing item- rather than as an outlay. Of course, that in no way alters the fact that the assistance represents a very real transfer of funds from the public sector, adding to the Government 's overall financing task. 
The proposed new sub-section (3) is very similar to the existing sub-section of that number, with some drafting changes to take account of the proposed new sub-section (2). The proposed new sub-section (5) ensures that any funds paid to the Bank from the Trust Account are repaid to that account rather than to the consolidated Revenue Fund. The proposed new sub-section (6) authorises payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the IED Trust Account in order to remove any possibility of a situation arising where there were insufficient funds available in the Trust Account to meet obligations to IED depositors as a result of the provision of IED funds to the Bank. In other words, this provision is designed to safeguard the position of IED depositors. The proposed new sub-section (7) authorises the repayment to the Consolidated Revenue Fund of any funds made available from that source to the Trust Account under the preceding sub-section. 
I take this opportunity to explain to the House how the available $30m of IED funds will be provided to the Bank. It is not envisaged that the funds will be deposited with the Bank in full from the outset. They will be allocated to the Bank in portions through the course of 1978-79 and beyond, as necessary, in such a way as to permit the Primary Industry Bank to lend to banks at maximum rates of 9 per cent in respect of loans below $100,000 and 1 1 per cent in respect of larger loans. This in turn will permit the banks to lend within the maximum rates of lO'/i per cent and  2Vi  per cent that have also been announced. The maximum effective margin for the banks of 1.5 per cent will cover administrative costs and risks over the full period of the long term loans. Suggestions that either the Primary Industry Bank or the prime lenders will be able, through these arrangements, to make undue profits are quite wrong. I expect to be in a position to give further details at a later stage when formalities have been completed under sections 7 and 8 of the Act. In that connection I mention that later in these sittings I will be submitting a report to Parliament as required under section 10 of the Act. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
The question of introducing forward cover in the circumstances mentioned by the honourable member for Ryan is a matter that has been put to the Government from time to time. Whilst it is a matter that ought to be kept under continuing consideration, depending on any circumstances that might arise, the Government is very much of the view that in present circumstances it would not be appropriate to introduce such arrangements. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement made yesterday by the Prime Mininster entitled 'Loan Council Financing of Development Projects'. 
-The short answer to the honourable gentleman's question is: No, it does not. Those people in the community who have endeavoured to categorise the attitude taken by the Commonwealth Government at the Loan Council meeting in Melbourne as a weakening of resolve to fight inflation and as a change of economic strategy are wrong. What ought to be understood are a number of important factors which lay behind the attitude taken by the Commonwealth Government at the Melbourne meeting. Firstly, one ought to bear in mind that, when stated as a total sum, $l,700m does sound like a substantial amount of money. But the House will be aware that that amount is to be borrowed over a period of eight years under present intentions and that the addition to borrowing in the current financial year is to be not more than about $158m. It ought to be borne in mind also that the Commonwealth indicated to the Loan Council meeting its very strong view that, whilst not ruling out the undoubted right of States to put forward further proposals, in the absence of special circumstances further approvals under these guidelines ought not to be given during the next three years. 
I think that the proposals of and the attitude taken by the Commonwealth Government ought to be seen as a decision which will be of responsible and material benefit to the further development and strengthening of the infrastructure of this country. I think that the decision represents the beginning of a significant era as far as Commonwealth-State financial relations are concerned. I believe that the proposals were put forward responsibly by the States. I believe that the States accept the extra degree of economic responsibility that is involved. I think that, in the light of those circumstances and against the background that when the Commonwealth made its decisions on its own Budget it had in mind the pending Loan Council meeting, the decision and the attitude of the Commonwealth Government should be seen as being wholly consonant with the economic strategy we have followed over the past two and a half years- a strategy from which we have no intention of diverting during the rest of this term in government. 
-The answer to the last part of the question is no. Frankly, I am not aware of the reports to which the honourable member for Gellibrand has referred. 
-I am not aware of them. I will investigate whether there have been any reports from reliable and responsible sources which suggest that the semi-government borrowing program is behaving in the way he suggests. If I have any information to offer on it I will let the House know; but my understanding is that thus far something of the order of 70 per cent of the semi-government borrowing program that was approved at the Loan Council meeting in June has already been arranged. Bearing in mind that we are not yet six months through the financial year, I would not have thought that indicated what the honourable gentleman was implying. 
I have not to my recollection had any complaints from Australian businessmen to the effect that officers of the Australian Taxation Office have privately or publicly said that the introduction of a retail turnover tax or a value added tax is a foregone conclusion. I cannot help the honourable gentleman in that regard. Naturally, I will make some inquiries arising out of his question. I think in fairness to the taxation officers I should state that I do not have any knowledge of any such complaints having been made by the Australian business community. 
I am thankful for the question from the honourable member for Tangney because it gives me the opportunity to say two things. I reaffirm what I said in this House two or three weeks ago: No in-principle decision has been taken by the Government to introduce a broad based indirect tax. We are conducting an examination of the practicalities of such action. If we decide to take the matter any further, we will issue a discussion paper for further community response and comment. It is an important matter; we ought to be a rational enough community to have a debate on the mix of taxation without those on one side or the other who hold strong views trying by emotional argument to intimidate the decision making process. 
In that regard I have to refer to an obvious form letter, the source of which I do not know, which is circulating in the community and which contains two quite incorrect statements. Firstly, it refers to a proposed retail turnover tax. No decision has been taken to introduce such a tax. To refer to a proposed tax is to instil unnecessary concern and create a climate of suspicion and mistrust. I think that it is very unfortunate that those who promoted that letter should have chosen to do so. Secondly, the letter implies that the Government has kept the community in the dark about this proposal. We have done nothing of the kind. We have been quite open in saying that we are merely exploring the prospect. I would hope that the discussion of this matter will proceed in a mature fashion. I thank the honourable gentleman for asking me the question and I also thank other honourable members on the Government side of the House who raised this matter with me recently such as the honourable members for Macarthur and Wakefield. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 1672 (See  Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1667). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in the  Hansard of  10 October 1978(page 1666). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$21m in 1978-79. 
$ 16m in 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in the  Hansard  of today's date. 
-By using a price deflator of 7 per cent. It will decline by 0.3 of one per cent. It will be the first reduction in real terms in taxation collection that has occurred for a period of 10 years. I would be the first person to deny that the increase in personal tax was a decision that this Government enjoyed taking. It was a decision that was forced upon us because of competing economic claims. It was a decision that was more equitable than the alternatives available to us. Finally, it is a decision which in no way dishonours the record of this Government as a government of real tax reforms. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposals involving the cost of each individual project were approved last Monday. In due course a submission will be made to the Australian Loan Council on separate financing packages so far as individual proposals are concerned. I did indicate to the Premiers at the Loan Council meeting that the Commonwealth Government would be happy to provide advice to State authorities so far as the sourcing of the loans is concerned. It is of course to be understood in respect of any loans that might be obtained overseas that any exchange risk involved should be borne by the individual authorities that might participate in those borrowings. Of course, whilst the loans to be raised do not affect the size of the Commonwealth Budget deficit, they do involve a component of the overall size of the public sector. 
In assessing its attitude towards the proposals, the Commonwealth has paid regard to the overall size of the public sector, including the additions that will occur to it as a result of these borrowings over the next eight years. In determining the attitude that it took on Monday, the Commonwealth came to the conclusion that the size of the loans involved a moderate addition to the size of the public sector- a responsible addition and one that was quite consistent with the economic strategy we have been following. As the honourable member will be aware, the amount involved, even if everything gets under way according to schedule in the current financial year, will be no more than $158m. I believe that the projects should be seen essentially for what they are- infrastructure development projects that will add to the nation's long-term assets so far as infrastructure is concerned, and projects which by and large will make a very material contribution to activity in the strengthening of the nation's infrastructure in the years ahead. 
-The Leader of the Opposition is again engaging in his now very well known habit of creating as far as he possibly can concern and unfounded apprehension about economic developments in this country. He asked me a series of about eight questions and I will answer them as best I can in the order in which they were asked. He asked a question about development so far as our monetary targets are concerned. As the honourable gentleman well knows from experience with commentators, including himself, in relation to the development of monetary aggregates last year it is a very precarious practice to try to draw annual conclusions from the course of developments over a period of a few months. Until such time as the course of this financial year develops, I think it is quite wrong for the Leader of the Opposition to suggest that there is real evidence that the Government's monetary targets are not going to be achieved. 
The honourable gentleman well knows the basis of and the reasons for the revenue measures that were imposed in the recent Budget. Despite those revenue measures and in very large measure because of the cumulative effect of the Government's taxation reforms, it was the view of the Government in the Budget documents that there would still be an increase in disposable incomes during the course of this financial year. So far as the question of bank lending is concerned, the Government rejects the implication in the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition that any requests by the Reserve Bank to the trading banks about lending limits by the trading banks will have a contractionary effect on activity. That will not be the case. The handling of liquidity throughout the course of the last financial year by the Reserve Bank created an extremely favourable situation for activity without in any way compromising the monetary targets of the Government during that financial year. I believe that the behaviour of the Reserve Bank during the course of this financial year will have the same result. 
Today 's matter of public importance is: 
The Government's attempt to conceal the full extent of the increased tax burden on low and middle income earners as from the beginning of this month. 
The first charge made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  which I have to answer is that in some way this Government has concealed the impact of the personal income tax increases that were announced in the Budget, particularly their impact on low and middle income earners. That is a charge that the Government completely rejects. If there is one thing that this Government has demonstrated in the taxation area, particularly through the introduction of tax indexation, it is the belief that if governments intend to increase taxation they should do so openly and by direct legislation, which is precisely what this Government has done. We have rejected the politically more popular but economically less responsible option of simply allowing taxation to be increased through the automatic impact of inflation on a progressive taxation system. That is why one of our first taxation reforms was to introduce indexation of personal taxation from the beginning of July 1 976. 
It is indeed a fact that because we have tax indexation it has been necessary for this Government to legislate directly for a temporary increase in personal income tax during 1978 and 1979. At no stage in the Budget Speech did the Government conceal what was happening. The honourable member for Gellibrand quoted from page 1 9 of the Budget Speech in which I said that for this year the standard rate of tax would be increased by  Vh  per cent. That was a correct statement. It remains a correct statement. There can be no charge that the Government concealed the fact that we would collect the full year's take from that increase between 1 November 1978 and 30 June 1979. 1 did not say that it was an increase of  Vh  per cent in everybody's tax. I said that it was an increase of 1  *h  per cent in the standard rate. It is an increase of 1  lh  per cent in the standard rate, although as the honourable member for Gellibrand points out the percentage increases in the amount of tax paid by people vary according to their particular circumstances. I suggest to the honourable member for 
Gellibrand that there is no essential disagreement as to the percentage effect of the decision and certainly there has been no concealment of the impact of the increase announced in the Budget. So, the first and main charge, that in some way we have concealed the impact, is rejected. 
The second thing that I would like to observe is the newfound fondness of members of the Opposition for the cause of lower taxation. It is a fondness they did not demonstrate when in government. It is a fondness the honourable member for Gellibrand was not prepared to demonstrate as recently as 30 June 1978 when he was making a speech to some Labor economists. He said: 
If Labor does not gain office next election, then by 1983 we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of tax to enable us to do so. 
In other words, the honourable member for Gellibrand, the Opposition spokesman on economic affairs who has come into this House shedding crocodile tears on the cause of lower taxation, as recently as 30 June was contemplating as a direct instrument of Labor Party economic policy an increase in the level of tax in our community. Labor demonstrated in office and demonstrates by its words now that it is not a party of lower taxation; it is a party which is prepared as an instrument of economic policy over a lengthy period of time to progressively allow taxation to increase. 
I am sure the House would allow me to remind it of that still famous statement of the former Prime Minister in his election policy speech in Blacktown in 1972. Having listed the enormous public expenditure program of a future Labor government, he asked the rhetorical question Where will we get the money?' and said: 'It is very simple. We will get the money from the impact of inflation on a progressive taxation system'. In other words, the Labor Party was prepared to finance its public expenditure profligacy out of the automatic increase in taxation that occurs if there are unindexed taxation scales. Let there be no doubt as to what happened to taxation rates in this country under the Whitlam Labor Government. Let there be no doubt that the present Opposition has by no means forsworn the sort of policies that were pursued then. As is demonstrated by those remarks I quoted, members of the Opposition have not shed their commitment to a substantially larger public sector in finance, through higher taxation. That remark was made as recently as 30 June. 
In the course of his remarks the honourable member for Gellibrand spoke about 55 per cent of taxpayers who would be worse off after 1 November than they were prior to 1 February when the tax arrangements announced in last year's Budget were brought into operation. The situation is best demonstrated by comparing the tax situation at various points on the income tax range for 1978-79, which includes the effect of the increase announced in the Budget, with the tax payable in 1977-78. The simple situation is that at no point in the taxation range will a person pay more tax for the whole of 1978-79 than he paid in 1977-78. The honourable member for Gellibrand well knows that. At $10,000 per annum the difference for a non-levy payer is minus $40; for a person earning $20,000 per annum it is minus $329. The honourable member for Gellibrand ought to know and ought to have acknowledged during the debate that it is false to compare the pay-as-you-earn deductions after 1 November and prior to 30 June next year with the PAYE deductions that applied prior to 1 November because, as was acknowledged in the Budget and as at no time has the Government attempted to conceal, the effect of the Budget decision is to collect in seven months the full tax liability over the 12-month period between 1 July this year and 30 June next year. Naturally, through that cramming effect the PAYE deductions during the 7-month period are going to be at a higher rate than they normally would be in relation to the total additional amount of tax that has to be collected. The charge about the 55 per cent, which was made as early as Budget night by the Leader of the Opposition and which has been repeated a number of times by him and the honourable member for Gellibrand, is completely false. 
Yet another comparison that was made by the honourable member for Gellibrand- and, if he quoted him correctly, allegedly by a representative of the Taxpayers Association- was that there is something wrong with the comparisons made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  between the tax that would have been payable under the Hayden scales, if they had remained in place, and the tax that is actually payable during the current year. I repudiate that charge also. I repudiate the charge that those comparisons are false because they have not been adjusted for inflation. Nothing could be more simplistic, nothing could be more absurd, than to make that allegation. Those comparisons were on the basis of average weekly earnings. If we look at the comparisons we will find that average weekly earnings have been increasing progressively because of increases in prices and adjustments for inflation. The charge that those comparisons are unadjusted for inflation is ridiculous. 
I will come to the adjustment of tax scales by the Labor Party in just a moment. I repeat that average weekly earnings are estimated to be $220.38 in January 1979. If the 1975 Hayden tax scales had remained in place, the amount of tax payable on that would have been $61.25. The amount that will be paid this year is $52.20. The honourable member for Gellibrand both in his speech and by interjection has said that it is unfair of me to do that because I do not acknowledge that the Labor Government, if it had stayed in power, would have left those scales unadjusted. What evidence is there that a Labor government would not have adjusted them? When we committed ourselves to tax indexation in response to the Hayden Budget of 1975, the then Government was silent about whether tax indexation was the policy of the Whitlam Government, despite the fact that tax indexation was then the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We all remember the confusion about indexation in the 1977 election campaign when  Mr Whitlam  said: 'Maybe'; the honourable member for Gellibrand said: 'I will have to find out'; and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said: 'I have only read the Cairns  Post'.  We all remember the confusion then. 
Is the honourable member for Gellibrand really coming into this House seriously suggesting that a government elected in 1972 on the platform of financing public sector expansion through the impact of inflation on a progressive tax scale- a government which, when in 1 975 the Opposition committed itself to tax indexation, remained silent and when as recently as December 1977 was utterly confused as to its attitude to tax indexation- would have adjusted the Hayden tax scales of 1975? Is he coming into this House seriously asking the Australian people to believe that if the Hayden Budget had remained in place and if the Whitlam Government had remained in office after 1975 it would have introduced indexation and would have adjusted the Hayden scales of 1975? I think that proposition defies imagination and defies comprehension. The fact remains that it is an indisputable fact that if the Hayden scales which were introduced with such a fanfare in August 1975 had remained in place, a significantly larger amount would have been collected in this current financial year than will be the case. 
This Government has demonstrated a genuine commitment to personal tax reform. We have introduced tax indexation. We have simplified the rate scales. Despite the temporary increase in the personal rate for 1978-79, the benefits of those reforms to taxpayers still remain significant. By legislation already passed through this Parliament we have committed ourselves to the total abolition of Federal estate and gift duty. That is taxation. That is action on the taxation front. We have introduced the trading stock valuation adjustment. We have introduced significant concessions in taxation in the corporate sector. Despite the acknowledged setback that the temporary increase in personal tax rates represents- at no stage during the course of the Budget Speech or since has the Government denied its disappointment at the need to enact that particular measure- and having made allowances for that, the Government has demonstrated nonetheless that the indisputable fact is that one of the very significant achievements of this Government has been in the area of personal tax reforms. Perhaps this cannot be better illustrated than for me again to remind the honourable member for Gellibrand and the House that unlike those years between 1972 and 1975 when personal income tax collected rose by 89 per cent, in 1978-79 personal tax collection will actually experience a fall in real terms of 0.3 per cent. It will be the first occasion - 
-by leave- Honourable members will recall that on 8 June this year I made a statement to the House concerning the Government 's foreign investment policy. I announced that following a review by the Government of the policy, certain procedural changes had been made in the administration of the policy and a modification of the Australian participation guidelines had been introduced. These changes were decided upon by the Government in order to facilitate the screening of foreign investment proposals and to provide an incentive for companies that are predominantly foreign-owned to admit a higher level of Australian equity participation into their operations. 
The Government recognises the fundamental importance of foreign investment to Australia's past and prospective economic progress and, accordingly, the basic aim of its policy is to welcome and encourage foreign investment. At the same time, the policy seeks to strike a balance between the benefits of long-term investment by foreign interests and the potential disadvantages of excessively high levels of foreign ownership and control of Australia's industries and resources. Since the Government's foreign investment policy was announced by my predecessor on 1 April 1976 to the present, around 3,000 proposals by foreign interests to undertake activities in Australia have been submitted for consideration. The Foreign Investment Review Board was established to advise the Government on foreign investment matters and to make recommendations on individual investment proposals. The number of foreign investment proposals submitted in recent months has remained high and provides further evidence of continued confidence among foreign interests in investing in Australia. When reaching its decision on the changes I announced on 8 June to the foreign investment policy the Government undertook to prepare an updated publication covering the foreign investment guidelines, incorporating the 8 June changes and others that have been made to the policy since it was first announced on 1 April 1976. 
I now present for the information of honourable members the publication that has been prepared, entitled:  Foreign Investment in Australia.  It sets out details of the Government's foreign investment policy and administrative procedures. In updating the foreign investment guidelines to incorporate the changes announced on 8 June the opportunity has been taken to clarify several points. In particular, I emphasise that exemption of a foreign investment proposal from consideration under the policy does not remove the need for the foreign investor to seek, where necessary, exchange control approval from the Reserve Bank. 
I also mention that the exemption from consideration under foreign investment policy of individual real estate acquisitions valued at less than $250,000 was intended to facilitate administration of the policy by removing from its ambit a large number of small, one-off proposals. This change does not, however, dispense with the examination under the policy of multiple proposals, such as those forming part of a real estate acquisition program. Accordingly, proposed purchases that are part of a property investment program involving total acquisitions since 8 June 1978 of more than $250,000, should continue to be referred for consideration. I trust that the publication will assist in improving understanding of the policy by both the public and businessmen and facilitate administration of it. Copies are available from Australian Government Publishing Service bookshops. I present the following paper: 
Foreign Investment Policy- Ministerial Statement, 9 November 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which is designed to correct a technical deficiency in existing very old legislation, seeks the approval of Parliament to extend the conditions under which the Commonwealth may provide necessary tax exemption undertakings in relation to its overseas borrowings, specifically where borrowings do not involve the issue of stocks or other securities. It is and has been a standard requirement of overseas lenders that the Commonwealth provide an undertaking that principal and interest payments on our overseas loans will be exempt from Australian taxes except where the moneys are payable to persons who are residents of Australia or of any of the Territories of Norfolk Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, or Christmas Island. 
The authority for the Commonwealth to provide such undertakings has been derived from section 6B of the Loans Securities Act 1919. The Commonwealth's continued reliance upon section 6B of the Loans Securities Act 1 9 1 9 for authority to give tax undertakings is constrained by a technical requirement that the Commonwealth may give such undertakings only where stock or securities are issued in evidence of the debt. It is perhaps not surprising, however, that not all forms of borrowing which have evolved over the many years since the Loans Securities Act was enacted and which may be undertaken by Australia, necessarily involve the issue of securities as standard procedure. This is so, for instance, where a loan agreement between the parties is legally sufficient for lenders as evidence of the debt and no specific 'security' is required to be issued by the Commonwealth in the form required by the Act. 
As already indicated, this situation reflects the diversification and refinement which has occurred in international capital markets particularly over the last decade, and in the forms in which loans can be arranged in those markets. In some recent Commonwealth loans it has been necessary to provide for special arrangements with lenders in respect of a now standard form of international loan operation. Against this background, the present Bill provides a means to correct this technical deficiency in the existing very old legislation. It does not involve policy issues; it merely extends long-established provisions in the present legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
As the letter from the Minister Assisting the Treasurer indicated, budgetary considerations as well as equity considerations entered into the decision not to extend item 123. 
I understand that the relevant recommendations in the Second Report ( 1978) of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped are currently under study. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my reply to his question on notice, Number 2536, for information on simulations with the National Income Forecasting model. 
Expenditure on Foreign Aid Since 1974-75  (Question No. 2515) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A wide variety of simulation analyses utilizing the National Income Forecasting model have been reported in the professional literature by the authors concerned. The following are among the more significant: 
I. Higgins &amp; V. W. FitzGerald: An Econometric Model of the Australian Economy, Journal of Econometrics, October 1973. 
N. Caton, E. A. Evans &amp; H. N. Johnston: The Inflationary Process and the Impact of Wage Indexation on the 
Australian Economy, Fourth Conference of Economists, 1974. 
N. Caton &amp; C. I. Higgins: Simulation Analyses with a Macro-Econometric Model. Fifth Conference of Economists, 1975. 
N. Caton: Some Macro-Economic Implications of Indexation of Personal Income Taxes, Economic Record, 1977. 
W. FitzGerald &amp; C. I. Higgins: Inside RBA76. Conference in Applied Economic Research, Reserve Bank of Australia, 1977. 
L. Coghlan: Simulation with the NIF Model of the Australian Economy, SIMSIG Conference, 1978. 
I refer the honourable member to those papers for a detailed discussion of the matters raised in his question. However, as a generalization it can be said that simulation analyses ofthe kind referred to 'show' only the mechanical consequences of imposing certain assumptions upon the assumptions (as to the working of the economy, etcetera) which are implicit in the model involved. In the particular case of the NIF model they are, as such, subject to the qualifications and limitations applying to that model. The paper by  Mr Coghlan  draws out these aspects in some detail. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. (3)1 would remind the honourable member of my answer to Question 9 1 9, in which I said that it is not possible to make an unequivocal statement regarding the immediate effects of the investment allowance on the rate of growth of employment. There is evidence that the investment allowance has been stimulating investment expenditure leading to higher employment in those industries producing investment goods. Furthermore, the reduced cost of investment may lead to the commencement of new projects and so create additional jobs. 
The investment allowance is, of course, available on all eligible investment whatever its labour-saving characteristics. The evidence suggests that a good deal of the recent increase in investment has been in the form of labour-saving capital equipment, stimulated by the excessively high real cost of labour, which, in turn, has been the most important factor tending to work against employment growth. The resultant productivity gains, however, have been an important source of the progress that has been made in removing the imbalance between labour costs and productivity and, as a consequence, restoring the incentive for expansionary investment. That incentive, of course, will be all the more quickly restored, and the pressure for labour-saving investment all the more quickly reduced, the greater the restraint shown on the side of labour costs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Differential tax treatment for income and capital gains can pose difficulties, but as it is not practicable to tax capital gains in an identical manner to income, some distinctions arc inevitable. In times of rapid inflation the divergence between money and real gains means that taxing capital gains on an equitable basis would be an exceedingly difficult task, as was recognised by the Labor Government in 1975 when it reversed an earlier decision to proceed with a capital gains tax. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Central Treasury; (1) (a) $64,230; (b) $52,909; (c) $ 15,706; (2) 43,736; (3) (a) 16, (b) 5, (c) 2. 
This information is not available from official records. 
Australian Taxation Office; (1) (a) $1,074,576; (b) $1,383,013; (c) $682,305; (2) 1,153,139; (3) (a) 185, (b) 179,(c)93. 
This information is not available from official records. 
Australian Bureau of Statistics; (1) (a) $437,856; (b) $566,149; (c) $373,599; (2) 434,376; (3) 173-breakup by years not available. 
This information is not available from official records. 
The Office of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust, the Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office and the Accounting Offices in the States were the responsibility of the Treasury until 6 December 1976. The following answers refer to these offices and relate to the period 1 January 1976 to 6 December 1 976 inclusive. 
(a)$ 110,727. 
Total figures not available. 
Total figures not available. 
This information is not available from official records. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Neither metal waste nor glass waste is generated by my Department. Regarding the recycling of waste paper by my Department I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 1437  (Hansard,  15 August 1978 page 334). I am also advised that the Statutory Authorities for which I am responsible have made arrangements for the recycling of waste to the maximum degree practicable and consistent with the need for economic management and security of records. Limited quantities of metal generated in the Reserve Bank's note printing operations are recycled. With that exception, none of these authorities generates glass or metal waste. 
Interest Rates (Question No. 1SS4) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information relating to savings and trading banks is to be found in relevant issues of the Reserve Bank of Australia monthly Statistical Bulletin. Permanent building societies offer a wide range of interest rates on term deposits. There is also considerable variance among societies as to deposit length requirements. The Commonwealth has only recently commenced collecting comprehensive data on building society interest rates and publication of the data has not yet commenced. I am informed, however, that the Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies has some relevant information derived from another source; the Honourable Leader of the Opposition may wish to approach the Association to see if the information could be made available to him. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 1673 (See  Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1667). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2097) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2090 in  Hansard  of 1 7 October 1 978. 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2098) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Australian Bureau of Statistics is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of its agricultural statistics program. The review is designed to re-assess users' needs and priorities for agricultural statistics and to examine the procedures used to collect and compile such statistics. Until decisions have been made on the basis of the review, which will take some months to complete, it will not be possible to indicate the extent to which the agricultural statistics program will be changed. 
(a) Currently the ABS has available data relating to more than 1,000 agricultural commodity items. The data are published in bulletins listed in the ABS 'Catalogue of Publications 1978'. Most of the commodity based data are available at the Australian, State and Local Government Area level. 
Information relating to imports and exports, including agricultural products, is collected by the Bureau of Customs from importers, exporters or their agents. For imports, the Customs Tariff determines the commodities that are specifically identified; at present some 13,000 commodities are listed in the Tariff. For exports the Australian Export Commodity Classification (AECC), published by the ABS, determines which commodities are specifically identified; at present some 3,000 commodities are listed in the AECC. 
The more significant items of foreign trade are published in ABS statistical bulletins each month. These bulletins are listed in the ABS Catalogue. In addition, a large amount of unpublished statistical data are available on request. 
An extensive range of structural and commodity data in relation to food and fibre processing industries is collected in the annual census of manufacturing establishments. Establishments predominantly engaged in these activities are classified to Sub-divisions 2 1-22 (Food, Drink and Tobacco) and 23 (Textiles) of the Australian Standard Industrial Classification (ASIC). The full industry classification which has been used for the 1968-69 to 1976-77 manufacturing censuses is contained in the ABS publication 'Australian Standard Industrial Classification' (Preliminary edition), Volume I. 
Data relating to the structure of particular industries (including the food and fibre processing industries) such as number of establishments, employment, wages and salaries, sales, purchases, turnover, value added, capital expenditure, etc are published by the ABS in bulletins listed in the ABS Catalogue of Publications 1978'. Most data are available on a State basis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have nothing to add to my reply to Question No. 1 669. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This series is derived principally from the 'Weekly Statement of Central Banking Business' issued each Wednesday by the Reserve Bank of Australia. It is derived asCapital and Reserve Funds plus Special ReserveInternational Monetary Fund special drawing rights plus other liabilities net of cheques and bills of other banks Bills receivable and remittances in transit loans, advances and all other assets plus rural credits advances to customers. 
For convenience the Reserve Bank of Australia has assembled details of movements in this series in tabular form which I have passed on to the honourable Leader of the Opposition. I would also be happy to provide this information to other members who might be interested. 
Movements in the 'other liabilities' series are substantial. Other liabilities' includes deposits of the Commonwealth and some State Governments and governmental authorities, of governments and central banks of other countries and of international financial institutions such as the International Monetary Fund. It also includes outstanding exchange settlements in favour of other banks, internal reserves, accumulated credit balance of profit and loss account, bills payable, old notes provision, deposits and Reserve Bank staff and sundry other liabilities. 
Some of these components, i.e. deposits with the Reserve Bank by Commonwealth and State Governments and government instrumentalities and by overseas institutions and other deposits (excluding banks), are available from the Reserve Bank balance sheet table in the  Statistical Bulletin.  I have also provided some data for these series to the honourable Leader of the Opposition. I could provide this information as well to other interested members. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Foreign Investment Review Board for 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) As I stated in reply to a question without notice on 18 October 1978(Hansard, pages 1993-4), the possibility of amending section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act is under consideration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has provided the following table which contains monthly data for the export price index, the import price index and the terms of trade for the period from July 1974 to June 1978. 
The honourable gentleman's question, of course, refers to the Budget revenue raising decision to impose a 12 per cent additional duty on quotas. The honourable gentleman asked whether the Government will keep under review the impact of currency fluctuations on the levels of protection. The Government most certainly will do that. In the Budget Speech I indicated that the purpose of this measure was not to give additional protection. I think that most honourable members would agree that there is what is commonly called a large amount of economic rent in most of the quotas that are issued to importers in Australia. 
I believe that in general terms it is thoroughly defensible of the Government to categorise this as a measure to raise revenue and not as a measure to give additional protection. I regret to say to the honourable gentleman that I cannot give an unequivocal guarantee that the effect of the decision, in some cases, will not result in additional protection. Naturally the matter will be kept under review. I do not think that the evidence that is available so far- it is early days yet- gives any indication that the measure is offering additional protection. 
-The honourable member's question raises a fundamental matter, that is, the Government's approach to the tax system and, as a result, the structure of the Income Tax Assessment Act. It is true that as a result of individual announcements made this year by the Government the size of the Act has been greatly expanded. I know that that is a matter of concern to some people but, frankly, if one is to keep to a tolerable minimum the level of discretions which are available to the Commissioner of Taxation under the legislation it is very difficult to restrain the size or the rate of growth, if I may put it that way, of the Act when one is legislating against individual practices. In that connection, as the honourable member knows, the Government is studying the possibility of rewriting section 260 of the Act. Quite clearly we do have a complicated taxation Act in this country. We have it because we have a complicated taxation system. I think it is relevant for me to say here that before the Government can seriously address itself to the question of simplifying the taxation system in 
Australia we have to make some decisions as to the relative reliance that government is to place on personal income tax as opposed to other forms of taxation. 
Australia is a country that relies very heavily on personal income tax and comparatively lightly on forms of indirect tax. One of the purposes of the inquiry that is now being carried out into the practicalities of a broad-based indirect tax is to decide whether we ought to effect a change in the mix of taxation in the community and not necessarily to achieve an increase in the overall taxation burden. What I think ought to be said in that connection is that if we are to have a sensible debate about the taxation system in Australia and if we are to decide whether we should have a different mix, we ought to have an intelligent and objective debate. We ought not to have people like some of the retailers and, frankly, the Premier of New South Wales, making emotional and uninformed contributions to the discussion which is going on at the present time about our taxation system. 
The Government has made no decision to introduce a broad-based indirect tax. It has demonstrably not set out, as the New South Wales Premier implied in his speech to the New South Wales Labor Party Conference, to increase in a substantial way the overall taxation burden in our community. He makes no contribution to the debate by raising simplistic criticisms of an indirect tax system; nor do some of the retailers make any contribution by circulating in the community misleading and simplistic letters in the hope that this Government will be deterred from making a sensible examination of our taxation system. 
If we are to have a more equitable and simpler taxation system in our society, we must first of all make one fundamental decision, and that is whether we continue to rely on personal tax as the principal method of raising revenue with all the implications for incentive that it has, or alternatively, whether we should bring about a different mix. I hope that we can have a sensible debate on this matter. For my part, I have an open mind on the subject and so has the Government. I believe that everybody in the community who wants a sensible examination of our taxation system will welcome sensible and objective comments and npt emotional destructive criticism. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment to Queensland of $21.7m in 1978-79 as a special grant. The payment of this amount is in accordance with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission contained in its forty-fifth report on special assistance for the States which was tabled recently. In accordance with normal practice, the Bill also seeks authority for payment of advances to Queensland in the early months of 1979-80, pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year and enactment of necessary legislation to provide for any special grant that may be payable to the State in that year. The Commonwealth Government from time to time on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, and following applications by States, makes special grants to the less populous States to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own sources and higher costs of providing government services of a standard comparable to that provided by the financially stronger States. 
When such special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance to the financially weaker States for this purpose. However, for many years now, the main way in which special compensatory assistance has been provided to these States has been through the payment of higher per capita amounts of other general revenue funds. This situation is reflected today in the fact that personal income tax sharing entitlements paid to Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are higher, in per capita terms, than the entitlements paid to New South Wales and Victoria. Under the personal income tax sharing arrangements, the less populous States continue to be free to apply for special financial assistance on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. This is one of the explicit understandings between the Commonwealth and State governments in relation to the tax sharing arrangements. Such special grants supplement a State's entitlement under the tax sharing arrangements in the same way as they formerly supplemented the financial assistance grants. 
Queensland has been the only claimant State in recent years. However, Tasmania, which did not claim in 1974-75, applied on 30 June 1978 for special assistance in respect of 1977-78 and the matter has been referred to the Commission. Queensland's estimated entitlement in respect of 1978-79 under the personal income tax sharing arrangements is $844.9m, representing $387 per head of population compared with an estimated average of $287 per head for New South Wales and Victoria. Accordingly, the assistance provided by way of the special grant should be seen as supplementing the special compensatory assistance of $100 per head, or some $220m, provided to Queensland by way of the tax sharing entitlement. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission, in arriving at its recommendations in relation to claims for special assistance, makes an assessment of the 'financial needs' of a claimant State. In making such assessments, the Commission compares in detail the finances of the claimant State with those of New South Wales and Victoria, taking into account differences in revenueraising capacity and differences in the cost of providing comparable services. Normally special grants recommended by the Commission consist of two parts. One part is based on a preliminary estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment two years later when the Commission has compared in detail the finances of the claimant and standard States for that year. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made two years earlier and is known as the completion payment. This adjustment may be positive or negative and therefore may result in the final grant in respect of the year being higher or lower than the advance payment for that year. 
The payment to Queensland in 1978-79 of $2 1.7m provided for by this Bill comprises, firstly, an advance payment of $ 16m in respect of 1978-79; and secondly, a completion payment of $5. 7m in respect of 1976-77. The completion payment in respect of 1976-77, when added to the $18m advance grant paid to Queensland in that year, brings the final grant in respect of 1976-77 to $23.7m, which is $12.1m below the corresponding figure for 1975-76. The advance grant for 1978-79 will, in accordance with normal practice, be subject to adjustment in two years' time. The Commission's recommendations in relation to the special grants arrangements have been adopted by the Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 sets out the bodies and classes of bodies in respect of gifts to which, whether in money or (subject to certain conditions) in kind, deductions may be claimed for income tax purposes. 
Particularly with such classes of bodies as public benevolent institutions (section 78(l)(a)(ii) or school building funds (section 78 (1) (a) (xv)), the numbers of eligible bodies can run into hundreds if not thousands and it would not be practicable to list them all here. If the honourable member is interested in particular bodies within such classes, I can arrange for their status to be advised to him. 
Section 78 has a history running back many decades and I would be reluctant to attempt to set out a corpus of criteria that purported to apply to all the bodies and classes of bodies now listed in the section. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)$7m,(b)$113m. 
In estimating the demand response to the higher price flowing from the increase in customs and excise duties regard was had to past experience of the Bureau of Customs and Excise following previous duty increases- for example, those imposed by the honourable member in his Budget for 1975-76. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Computers  (Question No. 2230) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)$70m,(b)$51m. 
In estimating the demand response to the higher price flowing from the increase in customs and excise duties regard was had to past experience of the Bureau of Customs and Excise following previous duty increases- for example, those imposed by the honourable member in his Budget for 1975-76. 

After clause 3 add the following clause: 
Section 78 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after sub-paragraph (xlvii) of paragraph (a) of subsection ( 1 ) the following sub-paragraph: ; (xlviii) The  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust,". '. 
On 23 May 1978 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that work had commenced on the creation of a special appeal and fund to be known as the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust. It was considered that in this way we might best commemorate the great contribution to the nation of the late  Sir Robert  Menzies. The Government has now decided that income tax deductions should be available in respect of gifts made to the Trust. Accordingly, this amendment proposes that the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust be included in the list of funds to which gifts are an allowable tax deduction. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Howard)-  by leaveread a third time. 
The amendment I will propose relates to clause 1, which reads: 
This Act may be cited as the  Income Tax(Rates)Amendment Act  1978. 
I move: 
After"AmendmentAct",insert"(No.2)". 
The amendment merely renumbers this Bill as the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. Since this Bill was originally introduced in June 1978, legislation giving effect to income tax measures arising out of the Budget has been enacted, including the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Act 1978. Hence this is now the second Bill amending the Rates Act, and is being so numbered. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
-I move: 
In the title,omit"1977",substitute"1978". 
In clause 3, omit" 1977", substitute" 1978". 
These technical amendments arise because of the enactment of further legislation since the Bill was introduced. That legislation includes the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Act 1978, which imposes income tax for 1978-79 on the 1 977-78 incomes of companies. 
The sole purpose of this Bill is to amend the Act imposing income tax on the 1 977-78 incomes of companies to make it clear that that Act does not impose branch profits tax. When this Bill was introduced it proposed the amendment of the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Act 1977, which at that time was the Act imposing income tax on the 1977-78 incomes of companies. As I have already mentioned, the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Act 1978, which has now been enacted, imposes income tax on 1977-78 company incomes and it is therefore necessary to amend this Bill to provide for the amendment of that Act. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I have two amendments to this Bill- one relating to the tide and the other to clause 3, which read: 
A Bill for an Act to amend the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Act 1977 
Section5 of the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Act 1977* is amended by inserting ", 128t" after"128B"insub-section(2) 
I seek leave to move thetwo amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Collections of customs duties on imported beer are negligible and it is a reasonable approximation to take the whole of the extra receipts as being collected as excise duty. 
In estimating the demand response to the higher price flowing from the increase in customs and excise duties regard was had to past experience of the Bureau of Customs and Excise following previous duty increases, for example, those imposed by the honourable member in his Budget for 1975-76. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 2067 (See  Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 27 10). 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 2066 (See  Hansard, 9  November 1978,page2710). 
I wish to speak very briefly to the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  As I said in raising a point of order, this motion is not about the veracity of the allegations that have been made by the Opposition against the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  This motion is about the forms of this House. This motion is about the vehicle by which certain matters can be dealt with. In no way,  Sir, does  your ruling prevent the Opposition from raising personal matters on substantive motion. In no way does your ruling, which the Government completely upholds, constitute any kind of cover-up of this matter. In no way does it prevent members of the Opposition from raising under the forms of this House, which have been in existence for a very long period, matters that they may wish to raise. The motion of dissent moved by the Leader of the Opposition demonstrates that the man increasingly has little respect for this institution. He happens to be the man who last night said to  Mr Deputy Speaker  in this chamber 'We will do you tomorrow. You can just chew on it overnight '. 
The purpose of this motion is to call in question a procedural ruling by you,  Sir. I  think it is proper, in responding to that motion, to query why the Opposition calls into question that procedural ruling. The fact of the matter is that the Leader of the Opposition has demonstrated by his attitude to this matter that he has little regard for the forms of this House and that he has little understanding that the forms of the House do not prevent his legitimately raising matters by way of a substantive motion. I think he also demonstrated by his conduct in this matter that he is becoming increasingly out of touch with some of the people in his own party. I think it is worth quoting the remarks of the New South Wales Attorney-General - 
-I think it is relevant to the issue that the Leader of the Opposition demonstrates by this motion that the Opposition is prepared, irrespective of the fact that the forms of this House provide a vehicle for raising particular matters, to use every single opportunity to continue what the Government regards as a contemptible and unsubstantiated attack on the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  The issue in this motion is very clear and simple.  Mr 
Speaker, you have given a ruling; you have said that a certain procedure can be followed by the Opposition. It is open to the Opposition to do so. The Minister for Primary Industry is available to respond to that procedure. It is not a reluctance of the Minister for Primary Industry to respond to matters that we are debating now. We are debating - 
I simply conclude by saying that in no way does the Government 's opposition to this motion represent an unwillingness by the Minister for Primary Industry to respond to these matters. In no way does the Government's opposition to this motion constitute other than the Government's belief that your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  is thoroughly correct and proper and fully in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
in reply- In closing the debate I would first or all like to thank the Opposition for its general support for the measures now before the House and those honourable members who have contributed to the debate. In so doing I must condemn the humbug which is implicit in the foreshadowed amendment to be moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in respect of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2). It has been said in this House before, but it does need to be said again, that for Opposition members to be talking at present about the Government not having taken sufficiently strong action so far as tax avoidance is concerned is an act of political humbug. The record of this Government in taking significant action against tax avoidance is a record without compare over the last 20 or 25 years. I have said it before and will say it again that the opportunity was available to our political opponents for a period of three years to do some decisive things about tax avoidance, and in comparative terms very little was done. So the truth simply is that when the then Labor Government had the opportunity it was fairly dilatory on the subject. As this Government has taken decisive action it is an act of humbug for members of the Opposition on the sidelines to say: 'That is all very well and we support it, but really you should have gone very much further'. 
Everyone knows that this Government is committed to act as decisively as possible against blatant acts of tax avoidance. We have adopted a practice this year that in my view has had a significant impact on tax avoidance practices in this country. I share the view that the honourable member for Gellibrand has expressed in other debates that it is idle to imagine that any government can completely eliminate tax avoidance. In this connection I will say something about the status of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The honourable member for Gellibrand knows that I have already indicated that the Government is at present considering the feasibility of rewriting section 260. 1 think he also knows, or ought to know, that that is not an easy task. The courts have given a very restrictive interpretation to the existing provisions of section 260. That is a matter of fact. It is something that the Government has to take into account in considering its approach to dealing with tax avoidance. But I can assure the House that we will continue as expeditiously as possible in our consideration of the feasibility of producing a new section 260. 
I think honourable members on both sides of the House ought to recognise that there are pluses and minuses in having a general annihilatory provision against tax avoidance. There are some in the community who believe- and I consider that they hold these views genuinely- that such a provision could introduce an unwarranted area of uncertainty in normal commercial operations. On the other hand, of course, an effective provision of the section 260-type, if that ideal could be achieved, would do a great deal, but it would not entirely eliminate the need to have very voluminous legislation. 
Most speakers in this debate have referred to the size of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I recognise that. But, apart from saying in a sweeping fashion that we should rewrite the Income Tax Amendment Act, nobody has argued seriously that the Government, if it is to be responsible in the tax avoidance area, has any alternative other than to act on a case-by-case approach at the present time against specific schemes as they become identified. 
Therefore I simply say that the Government will continue with the campaign against tax avoidance which has been a significant feature of the administration by the Government of the income tax legislation this year. I believe it is a campaign which has very broad community support. It is fair. It is quite unacceptable to this Government that people should be able to avoid their liability for paying their fair share of the cost of running this country. They should not be able to do this in a blatant and artificial fashion of a kind that has occurred in this country not only in recent years but also over a period of time. I believe that this is an activity of the Government that has very broad community support, and so it ought, because if governments allow the type of avoidance that has occurred in recent times to go unchecked they will incite contempt for the integrity of the tax system and undermine people's belief in the essential fairness of our society. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before concluding my remarks, there are two other matters to which I wish to refer. The first of those is that part of the present legislation which deals with the amendment to the Income Tax Act flowing out of the decision of the Victorian Supreme Court in the Nilsen Development Laboratories Pty Ltd case. I think it is right to say, as has been pointed out by a number of speakers, that the action of the Government in this area was one of those unfortunate things that, because of potential revenue consequences, governments find it necessary to do. I wish to make it quite clear to the House that the decision of the Government to legislate to preserve what it had believed, up to that time, to be the status quo regarding the time at which deductions in respect of long service leave and annual leave payments could be claimed, did not represent in any way an expression by the Government of a view on the merits of the proposition that deductions of this character should be available on an accruals basis as opposed to the basis on which it had hitherto been believed they were available. 
It is also true, as some speakers have pointed out, that in no sense are we dealing here with a tax avoidance practice. Indeed, the proposition that the accruals basis should be available is one that has been put for a very lengthy period of time. It is well understood by the Government, and there is nothing in the legislation before the House which forecloses the Government's options so far as some change in the law in this area at some time in the future is concerned. I wish to make that perfectly clear. Very simply, the Government was faced with the real dilemma that in a freak fashion a quite major threat to the revenue was involved. The real alternative available to the Government, given the commitment it made in the last Budget to the sort of deficit we ought to have, was either to act as it has done or to find some alternative revenue raising measure, which, I put to the House, would have been a lot less equitable than the decision that was ultimately taken. 
I know that the amount of money claimed by the Government to be at risk has been questioned by some speakers in this debate. Let me say two things about that. Firstly, I think that all speakers would understand the difficulty of giving a completely precise estimate of the potential loss to revenue that may have flowed from that decision. When speaking of $600m, I have said that a figure of up to that order was involved. I point out to the House that what we are dealing with in part in arriving at that figure is a situation where, at the end of a particular financial year, we make some allowance for the notionally accrued annual leave of all the employees of Australia who are entitled to annual leave. Then we can get some idea of the potentially large figure which might be involved. As honourable members know, we are not talking about an ultimate cost to the revenue; we are talking about the bunching effect, so far as the revenue is concerned, of the deduction being available for the first time on an accruals basis as opposed to a payments basis. Whilst the circumstances of the Government having to legislate as it did, with effect from 1 July, are regrettable- it is a course of action the Government would have wished not to have taken- after very careful consideration of the circumstances it was felt that there was absolutely no alternative. 
My final comment relates specifically to the size of the amendments dealing with the current year loss provisions that are now being inserted in the Income Tax Assessment Act. I know that these provisions are very voluminous, and during the Committee stage of this debate they will be the subject of a number of amendments. Frankly, in the present state of the law and against the background of the comments I made earlier regarding section 260 of the Act, if the Government is to deal seriously with the type of practices that have been involved in current year loss situations, and if it is to keep to a minimum a number of discretions available to the Commissioner of Taxation under the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Act, then I invite anybody in the House to suggest that in practical terms it was possible to have a simple provision achieving these objectives. 
It has been put to me- I am inclined to accept this to be the fact- that if we had been prepared to grant a very wide discretionary power to the Commissioner of Taxation the provision in question could have been a lot shorter. There are very mixed views on this subject. I find it interesting that, irrespective of one's views about taxation legislation, many people who urge simplicity in tax legislation at the same time urge that there be a rninimum of discretion to the Commissioner of Taxation. Speaking of the office and in no sense of people, I think it is desirable that there not be too many discretions available to Commissioners of Taxation. There is a valid argument that as far as possible the rights of taxpayers should be spelt out in income tax legislation. But there is a cost to that, and the cost is highly complicated legislation. It is really living in a dreamland to imagine that we can have legislation which, on the one hand, has minimal discretions available to the Commissioner of Taxation and, on the other hand, is simple, brief and non-voluminous. 
I share the view of all members of the House, I am sure, that the present Income Tax Act is extremely complicated. It is very big, and it is getting increasingly difficult for many people other than those who have a special expertise in this area to understand all of its ramifications. It is not so much that we have a complicated Act but rather that we have a complicated taxation system. It is to put the cart before the horse to imagine that as a separate exercise we can simplify the taxation legislation while leaving an essentially complicated taxation system. To give one illustration of that, under our income tax system we provide for accessability of income against which one can claim certain deductions. Once the availability of deductions is introduced into tax law a very complicated piece of legislation is created. In saying that, I am not suggesting for a moment- and I emphasise this point- that deductions should not be available. Just to illustrate, if we have legislation which is based upon a general statement of liability to tax to which there are numerous exceptions, we immediately have a complicated system. Of course, whenever we have in legislation exceptions to general liability, not only do we have a complicated Act and a complicated system but we also create the incentive for imitation of those exceptions and various arrangements that are designed to be captured by those exceptions. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that I understand very much the concern of people about the size of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I hope they will bear in mind that, if we are to have legislation which does not give the Commissioner of Taxation too many discretions, it is very difficult at the same time to have that legislation brief. In regard to tax avoidance, I simply repeat that we have under consideration the possibility of rewriting section 260 of the Act. It is not an easy task. Anybody who imagines that it is just a question of adjusting a few words in order to have a workable section 260 does not understand the history of that section and does not understand the attitude taken by the courts in this country and elsewhere- particularly in this country because that is the situation which is relevant to us- towards the construction of taxation legislation. 
Whilst I do not rule out the possibility of a workable redrafting of section 260 being achieved, in the meantime, if the Government is to pursue seriously its campaign against tax avoidance, which it intends to do, we will have to have a situation where complicated amendments are brought into this Parliament. Nobody likes having unnecessarily complicated legislation. But if we net out the interests that are involved in this situation and understand something of the workings of the taxation system, I hope the House agrees that in the short term, at least, we have to cope with this situation if we are seriously to try to deal with the problem of tax avoidance, which I hope that all honourable members see as the responsibility of this Government and a course of action that ought to be pursued. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I have amendments to clauses 1, 5, 9 and 12, which read in part: 
Clause 1. 
1 ) This Act may be cited as the  Income Tax Assessment Amendment Act  (No.2) 1978. 
Clause 5. 
1 ) Section 46a of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting sub-sections (2) and (3) and substituting the following sub-sections: 
by inserting after sub-section (8) the following subsection: "(8a) For the purposes of the application of this section in relation to a shareholder in relation to a year of income, being a shareholder that is a company to which Subdivision b of Division 2a applies in relation to the year of income, a reference in sub-section (5) or (6) to the net income derived from dividends by the shareholder or to the net income derived from private company dividends by the shareholder shall, notwithstanding sub-section (9), be read as a reference to so much of any dividends or private company dividends, as the case may be, as is deemed to be included in the taxable income of the shareholder of the year of income by reason of the operation of section 50N."; 
by omitting sub-sections ( 1 1 ), ( 12), ( 12a) and ( 12b) and substituting the following sub-sections: "( 10a) For the purposes of sub-section ( 10), the Commissioner may be satisfied that it is reasonable to attribute to dividends paid to a shareholder in respect of shares in a company deductions that have been allowed or are allowable to the shareholder under this Act in relation to a year of income notwithstanding that those deductions relate to the acquisition of relevant property other than relevant property consisting of the shares in the relevant company in respect of which the dividends were paid. "(12) For the purposes of the application of subsections (10) and (10a) in determining the deductions that have been allowed or are allowable to a shareholder under this Act in respect of any dividends included in the assessable income of the shareholder of a year of income, where any loss incurred in respect of a transaction, undertaking or scheme that involved the acquisition by the shareholder (whether alone or jointly with another person or other persons) of relevant property, has been allowed or is allowable as a deduction to the shareholder under this Act in relation to a year of income (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant year of income ')- 
any expenditure incurred by the shareholder in respect of the acquisition of that relevant property; and 
any other expenditure incurred by the shareholder in connection with the transaction, undertaking or scheme, being expenditure that was, or is to be, taken into account in ascertaining the amount of that loss, shall be deemed to have been a deduction allowed, or to be a deduction allowable, as the case may be, to the shareholder under this Act in relation to the relevant year of income, but the amount of the loss shall, for the purposes of those sub-sections, be deemed not to have been a deduction allowed, or not to be a deduction allowable, as the case may be, to the shareholder under this Act in relation to the relevant year of income."; 
by omitting " and " from the end of paragraph ( a) of sub-section (14); and 
The amendments made by sub-section ( 1 ) (other than paragraph (1) (b)) apply in relation to dividends paid after 7 May 1978 other than dividends declared on or before that date. 
Clause 9. 
After section 50 of the Principal Act the following Subdivision and headings are inserted;  "Subdivision B- Calculation of Taxable Income where Disqualifying Event Occurs  "50a.(1) .... "50d.(1) .... "(5) Sub-section (4) does not apply in relation to the notional loss in respect of a loss period in relation to a company if- 
before the end of that loss period, the company commenced to carryonabusinessthatithadnotpreviously carried on or the company entered into, in the course of its business operations, a transaction of a kind that it had not previously entered into; and 
b ) the company commenced to carryonthatbusinessor entered into that transaction for the purpose, or for purposes that included the purpose, of enabling that sub-section to apply in relation to that notional loss or for the purpose of enabling the notional taxable income of an income period to be taken into account, in the application of that sub-section, in determining the amount of that notional loss that is to be taken into account in determining the eligible notional loss of the company in relation to the year of income. "(7) Sub-section (6) does not apply in relation to the notional loss in respect of a loss period in relation to a company if- 
before the commencement of that loss period, the company commenced to carry on a business that it had not previously carried on or the company entered into, in the course of its business operations, a transaction of a kind that it had not previously entered into; and 
b) the company commenced to carry on that business or entered into that transaction for the purpose, or for purposes that included the purpose, of enabling that sub-section to apply in relation to that notional loss or for the purpose of enabling the notional taxable income of an income period to be taken into account, in the application of that sub-section, in determining the amount of that notional loss that is to be taken into account in determining the eligible notional loss of the company in relation to the year of income. 
"50F.(1) .... 
"(3) For the purposes of the application of this Subdivision in relation to a company in relation to a year of income- 
where- 
at any time during the year of income the company was a partner in a partnership; 
a full-year partnership deduction has been allowed or is allowable, or full-year partnership deductions have been allowed or are allowable, to the partnership in relation to the year of income of the partnership that corresponds with the year of income of the company; and 
for the purposes of section 92, the partnership had a net income of that year of income of the partnership, so much of the amount of that full-year partnership deduction or of the sum of the amounts of those fullyear partnership deductions, as the case may be, as bears to that amount or sum, as the case may be, the same proportion as the individual interest of the company in that net income bears to the amount of that net income shall be deemed to be a partnership deduction in relation to the company in relation to the year of income; 
where- 
at any time during the year of income the company was a partner in a partnership; 
a full-year partnership deduction has been allowed or is allowable, or full-year partnership deductions have been allowed or are allowable, to the partnership in relation to the year of income of the partnership that corresponds with the year of income of the company; and 
for the purposes of section 92, a partnership loss was incurred by the partnership in that year of income of the partnership, so much of the amount of that full-year partnership deduction or of the sum of the amounts of those fullyear partnership deductions, as the case may be, as bears to that amount or sum, as the case may be, the same proportion as the individual interest of the company in that partnership loss bears to the amount of that partnership loss shall be deemed to be a partnership deduction in relation to the company in relation to the year of income; and 
where- 
at any time during the year of income the company was a partner in a partnership; 
a full-year partnership deduction has been allowed or is allowable, or full-year partnership deductions have been allowed or are allowable, to the partnership in relation to the year of income of the partnership that corresponds with the year of income of the company; and 
for the purposes of section 92, the partnership did not have a net income of that year of income of the partnership and did not incur a partnership loss in that year of income of the partnership, so much of the amount of that full-year partnership deduction or of the sum of the amounts of those fullyear partnership deductions, as the case may be, as the Commissioner considers fair and reasonable having regard to the extent of the interest of the company in the partnership shall be deemed to be a partnership deduction in relation to the company in relation to the year of income. "(4) For the purposes of this section, the following deductions are full-year partnership deductions in relation to a partnership in relation to a year of income: 
any deduction allowable to the partnership under section 78, under Subdivision  ba  of Division 3 or under Division 10AA(otherthansection124AM); "50h. (1) Subject to this section, a disqualifying event in relation to a company shall  be  deemed to have occurred at a time during a year of income (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant time ') if the Commissioner is satisfied that- 
immediately after the relevant time, there was no natural person, and there were no natural persons, who beneficially owned shares in the company carrying between them the right to exercise more than onehalf of the voting power in the company who, immediately before the relevant time, held shares in the company carrying between them the right to exercise more than one-half of the voting power in the company; 
immediately after the relevant time there was no natural person, and there were no natural persons, who beneficially owned shares in the company carrying between them the right to receive more than onehalf of any dividend that might be paid by the company who, immediately before the relevant time, held shares in the company carrying between them the right to receive more than one-half of any dividend that might be paid by the company; 
immediately after the relevant time there was no natural person, and there were no natural persons, who beneficially owned shares in the company carrying between them the right to receive more than onehalf of any distribution of capital of the company who, immediately before the relevanttime,held shares in the company carrying between them the right to receive more than one-half of any distribution of capital of the company; 
at the relevant time, the voting power in the company was controlled, or became capable of being controlled, either directly or through one or more interposed companies, trustees or partnerships, by a natural person or natural persons who did not control the voting power in the company and was not or were not, as the case may be, capable of controlling the voting power in the company, either directly or through one or more interposed companies, trustees or partnerships, at any time before the relevant time, being a time during the year of income, and that natural person or those natural persons acquired the control of that voting power for the purpose, or for purposes that included the purpose, of receiving any benefit or obtaining any advantage in relation to the application of this Act or securing that another person or other persons would receive such a benefit or obtain such an advantage; 
at the relevant time, the affairs or business operations of the company were managed or conducted without proper regard to the rights, powers or interests of a natural person who was, or natural persons who were, at the relevant time, capable of controlling the voting power in the company, either directly or through one or more interposed companies, trustees or partnerships. "(2) For the purposes of sub-section ( 1 )- 
a company shall be taken to have had an available loss immediately before a time during the year of income if, had the company not derived any income nor incurred any expenditure at or after that time, the assessable income of the company of the year of income would have been less than the allowable deductions of the company of the year of income; and 
a company shall be taken to have had an available profit immediately before a time during a year of income if, had the company not derived any income nor incurred any expenditure at or after that time, the assessable income of the company of the year of income would have exceeded the allowable deductions of the company of the year of income. "(3) Paragraph (e) of sub-section (1) applies notwithstanding that the income referred to in that paragraph was derived by the company in the course of ordinary family or commercial dealing, but that paragraph does not apply in a case where the natural person or natural persons who had shareholding interests in the company immediately before, and immediately after, the time when the income was derived will benefit from the derivation of the income to an extent that the Commissioner considers to be fair and reasonable having regard to voting, dividend or capital rights attached to the shares in respect of which that person or those persons had shareholding interests in the company immediately after the time when the income was derived. "(4) Paragraph (f) of sub-section (1) applies notwithstanding that the loss or outgoing referred to in that paragraph was incurred by the company in the course of ordinary family or commerical dealing, but that paragraph does not apply in a case where the natural person or natural persons who had shareholding interests in the company immediately before, and immediately after, the time when the loss or outgoing was incurred will benefit from any profit or advantage that has, or might, arise, directly or indirectly, from the incurring of the loss or outgoing to an extent that the Commissioner considers to be fair and reasonable having regard to voting, dividend or capital rights attached to the shares in respect of which that person or those persons had shareholding interests in the company immediately after the time when the loss or outgoing was incurred. "50m. (1) The succeeding provisions of this section have effect for the purposes of the application of this Subdivision in relation to a company in relation to the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1977 or any of the next 3 succeeding years of income, being a company that, for the purposes of section 31b, is a taxpayer to whom sub-section (4) of that section applies. "(2) The value of prescribed trading stock owned by the taxpayer at the end of a relevant period in relation to a year of income (not being a relevant period that ends at the end of the year of income) shall be the amount ascertained by deducting from the value of that trading stock, as ascertained in accordance with section 3 1, the amount ascertained in accordance with the formula  A-B C,  where- 

 A is the amount ascertained by multiplying the excess amount by- 
if the year of income is the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1977-0.4; 
if the year of income is the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1978-0.3; 
if the year of income is the year of income commencing on 1 July 1979-0.2; and 
if the year of income is the year of income commencing on 1 July 1980-0.1; 
Bistheamountascertainedbymultiplyingtheexcess amount by 0.1; and 
Cisthefractionascertainedbydividingby365the number of whole days (if any) in the period commencing at the beginning of the year of income and ending at the end of the relevant period. "50N. ( 1 ) Where, for the purposes of any provision of this Act (other than this section), it is necessary to ascertain the extent to which the taxable income of a company of a year of income, being a company in relation to which this Subdivision applies in relation to the year of income, consists of one or more of the following classes of income, that is to say, income from private company dividends, income from dividends other than private company dividends, income from property other than dividends and income from personal exertion, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, this section applies for that purpose. "(12) Subject to sub-section (13), the amount of income from private company dividends included in the taxable income of the company of the year of income shall be deemed to be the amount (if any) ascertained by deducting from the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'income amount') of- 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from private company dividends included in the notional taxable income of a relevant period or included in the notional taxable incomes of relevant periods, as the case may be, by sub-section (8); and 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from private company dividends included in a fullyear amount or included in full-year amounts, as the case may be, in relation to the company in relation to the year of income, the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'deduction amount') of- 
so much of allowable deductions that relate directly, in whole or in part, to income from private company dividends ( whether of the year of income or of a previous year of income) as is deemed by this section to be included in the eligible notional loss of the company in relation to the year of income; and 
so much of any full-year deduction or full-year deductions as relates directly to income from private company dividends. "( 14) Subject to sub-section  (IS),  the amount of income from dividends other than private company dividends included in the taxable income of the company of the year of income shall be deemed to be the amount (if any) ascertained by deducting from the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'income amount ') of- 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from dividends other than private company dividends included in the notional taxable income of a relevant period or included in the notional taxable incomes of relevant periods, as the case may be, by subsection (8); and 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from dividends other than private company dividends included in a full-year amount or included in full-year amounts, as the case may be, in relation to the company in relation to the year of income, the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'deduction amount') of- 
so much of allowable deductions that relate directly, in whole or in pan, to income from dividends other than private company dividends (whether of the year of income or of a previous year of income) as is deemed by this section to be included in the eligible notional loss of the company in relation to the year of income; and 
so much of any full-year deduction or full-year deductions as relates directly to income from dividends other than private company dividends. "(16) Subject to sub-section (17), the amount of income from property other than dividends included in the taxable income of the company of the year of income shall be deemed to be the amount (if any) ascertained by deducting from the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'income amount') of- 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from property other than dividends included in the notional taxable income of a relevant period or included in the notional taxable incomes of relevant periods, as the case may be, by sub-section (8); and 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from property other than dividends included in a fullyear amount or included in full-year amounts, as the case may be, in relation to the company in relation to the year of income, the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'deduction amount') of- 
so much of allowable deductions that relate directly, in whole or in pan, to income from property other than dividends (whether of the year of income or of a previous year of income) as is deemed by this section to be included in the eligible notional loss of the company in relation to the year of income; and 
so much of any full-year deduction or full-year deductions as relates directly to income from property other than dividends. "(18) Subject to sub-section ( 19), the amount of income from personal exertion included in the taxable income of the company of the year of income shall be deemed to be the amount (if any) ascertained by deducting from the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'income amount ') of- 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from personal exertion included in the notional taxable income of a relevant period or included in the notional taxable incomes of relevant periods, as the case may be, by sub-section ( 8 ); and 
any amount, or the sum of any amounts, of income from personal exertion included in a full-year amount or included in full-year amounts, as the case may be, in relation to the company in relation to the year of income, the sum (in this sub-section referred to as the 'deduction amount') of- 
so much of allowable deductions that do not relate directly, in whole or in pan, to income from property as is deemed by this section to be included in the eligible notional loss of the company in relation to the year of income; and 
so much of any full-year deduction or full-year deductions as does not relate directly to income from property. "(22) For the purposes of this section, dividends paid to a company by another company during a year of income of that other company shall be deemed to be private company dividends if that other company was a private company in relation to that year of income of that other company. 
Clause 12. 
After section  105AA  of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: "105ab.(1) "(6) Where, in pursuance of sub-section (2), the Commissioner has determined that a period is to be an additional distribution period, or that periods are to be additional distribution periods, in relation to a company in relation to a year of income (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant year of income '), so much of the amount of any distribution or of the sum of the amounts of any distributions of money or other property made during thatadditionaldistribution period or those additional distribution periods by the liquidator of the company (being a distribution the amount of which was, or being distributions the amounts of which were, specified in a notice or notices given to the Commissioner by the liquidator in accordance withsub-section (5)) as exceeds the amount (if any) that would be the undistributed amount in relation to the company in relation to the year of income immediately preceding the relevant year of income if no regard were had to the distribution or distributions of money or other property made by the liquidator during that additional distribution period or those additional distribution periods shall, for the purposes of ascertaining, for the purposes of this Division, whether the company is deemed to have made a sufficient distribution in relation to the relevant year of income, be taken to have been made during the prescribed period in relation to the relevant year of income. 
I seek leave to move 43 amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
1 ) In clause 1, omit "No. 2", substitute "No. 4". 
In clause 5 (1) (b) omit proposed sub-section (8a), substitute the following sub-sections: " ( 8a) For the purposes of the application of this section in relation to a shareholder in relation to a year of income, being a shareholder that is a company to which Subdivision B of Division 2a applies in relation to the year of income- 
a reference in sub-section ( 5 ) to the net income derived from dividends by the shareholder shall be read as a reference to an amount equal to the sum of- 
the amount of income from private company dividends that is deemed to be included in the taxable income of the shareholder of the year of income by the operation of section50N; and 
the amount of income from dividends other than private company dividends that is deemed to be included m the taxable income of the shareholder of the year of income by the operation of section50N, reduced by so much of any deductions (including deductions, whether in respect of losses, outgoings or otherwise, that are not specifically related to particular income or to income included in a particular class of income) that have been allowed or are allowable to the shareholder under this Act in relation to the year of income or any other year of income as- 
has not, in the application of section50N in relation to the shareholder in relation to the year of income, been deducted from income from private company dividends or from income from dividends other than private company dividends; and 
the Commissioner is satisfied it is reasonable to attribute to dividends included in the assessable income of the shareholder of the year of income; 
a reference in sub-section (5) or (6) to the net income derived from private company dividends by the shareholder shall be read as a reference to the amount of income from private company dividends that is deemed to be included in the taxable income of the shareholder of the year of income by the operation of section50N reduced by so much of any deductions (including deductions, whether in respect of losses, outgoings or otherwise, that are not specifically related to particular income or to income included in a particular class of income) that have been allowed or are allowable to the shareholder under this Act in relation to the year of income or any other year of income as- 
has not, in the application of section50N in relation to the shareholder in relation to the year of income, been deducted from income from private company dividends; and 
the Commissioner is satisfied it is reasonable to attribute to private company dividends included in the assessable income of the shareholder of the year of income; and 
a reference in sub-section (5) to the net income derived by the shareholder from dividends other than private company dividends shall be read as a reference to the amount of income from dividends other than private company dividends that is deemed to be included in the taxable income of the shareholder of the year of income by the operation of section50N, reduced by so much of any deductions (including deductions, whether in respect of losses, outgoings or otherwise, that are not specifically related to particular income or to income included in a particular class of income) that have been allowed or are allowable to the shareholder under this Act in relation to the year of income or any other year of income as- 
has not, in the application of section50N in relation to the shareholder in relation to the year of income, been deducted from income from dividends other than private company dividends; and 
the Commissioner is satisfied it is reasonable to attribute to dividends (other than private company dividends) included in the assessable income of the shareholder of the year of income. "(8B) A reference in this section to deductions that have been allowed or are allowable to a shareholder under this Act in relation to a year of income or to amounts that have been or are included in the assessable income of a shareholder of a year of income shall, if Subdivision B of Division 2a applies or applied in relation to the shareholder in relation to the year of income, be read as a reference to deductions that would have been allowable or would be allowable to the shareholder under this Act or to amounts that would have been included in the assessable income of the shareholder, as the case may be, if the taxable income of the shareholder of the year of income concerned were ascertained in accordance with section 48. ". 
In clause5 (1) (c), in proposed sub-section (10a), omit "sub-section 10", substitute "sub-sections (8a) and (10)". 
In clause 5 ( 1 ) (c), in proposed sub-section (11), after "purposes of the application of" insert "sub-section (8a) or". 
In clause 5 (1) (c), in proposed sub-section (12), page 4, line 35, after "purposes of the application of" insert "subsection (8a) or". 
In clause5(1),afterparagraph(c)insertthefollowing paragraph: "(ca) by inserting in sub-section (13) 'in sub-section ( 8a) or' after 'deduction referred to '. " 
In clause 5 ( 1 ) (e), omit "and". 
In clause5(1),afterparagraph(e)insertthefollowing paragraph: "(ea) by omitting from paragraph (b) of sub-section ( 14) 'sub-sections (9) and ( 10)' and substituting 'subsection ( 8a), or sub-sections (9) and ( 10), and ". 
In clause 5, omit sub-section (2), substitute the following sub-sections: "(2) The amendments made by sub-section (1) (other than paragraphs ( 1 ) (b), (ca) and (ea)) apply in relation to dividends paid after 7 May 1978 other than dividends declared on or before that date. "(2a) For the purposes of the application of section 46a of the  Income Tax Assessment Act  1936 in relation to dividends paid to a company on or before 7 May 1978 or dividends declared on or before that date that are paid to a company after that date, being a company to which Subdivision B of Division 2a applies in relation to the year of income of the company during which the dividends are paid- 
sub-section ( 1 1 ) of that section shall be read as if the last preceding sub-section' were omitted and sub-section (8a) or ( 10)' were substituted; and 
sub-section ( 12) of that section shall be read as if sub-section ( 10) of this section' were omitted and  sub-section ( 8a) or ( 1 0 ) ' were substituted. "(2b) For the purposes of the application of section 46a of the  Income Tax Assessment Act  1 936 in relation to- 
dividends paid to a company on or before 7 May 1978 and after 7 April 1978 (not being dividends declared on or before 7 April 1978); or 
dividends paid to a company after 7 May 1978, being dividends declared after 7 April 1978 and on or before 7 May 1978, being in either case a company to which Subdivision B of Division 2a applies in relation to the year of income of the company during which the dividends are paid, sub-section ( 12a) of that section shall be read asif'sub-section(10)' were omitted and 'sub-section (8a) and (10)' were substituted.". 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50D(5)(b),omit "for the purpose", second occurring. 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50D(7)(b), omit " for the purpose", second occurring. 
12) In clause 9, in proposed section 50f (3) (a) (ii), omit "and". 
In clause 9, omit sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of sub-section (3) of proposed section 50f, substitute the following sub-paragraphs: "(iii) the period that constitutes that corresponding year of income of the partnership is the same period as the period that constitutes the year of income of the company; and 
for the purposes of section 92, the partnership had a net income of that year of income of the partnership,". 
14) In clause 9, in proposed section 50f (3) (b) (ii), omit "and". 
In clause 9, omit sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (b) of sub-section (3) of proposed section 50f, substitute the following sub-paragraphs: "(iii) the period that constitutes that corresponding year of income of the partnership is the same period as the period that constitutes the year of income of the company; and 
for the purposes of section 92, a partnership loss was incurred by the partnership in that year of income of the partnership,". 
In clause 9, at end of proposed section 50f (3) (b), omit"and". 
17) In clause 9, in proposed section 50F (3) (c) (ii), omit "and". 
1 8) In clause 9, omit sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) of sub-section (3) of proposed section 50F, substitute the following sub-paragraphs: "(iii) the period that constitutes that corresponding year of income of the partnership is the sameperiodas the period that constitutes the year of income of the company; and 
for the purposes of section 92, the partnership did not have a net income of that year of income of the partnership and did not incur a partnership loss in that year of income of the partnership,". 
19) In clause 9, at the end of sub-section (3) of proposed section 50f add the following word and paragraph: "; and (d) where- 
at any time during the year of income the company was a partner in a partnership; 
a full-year partnership deduction has been allowed or is allowable, or full-year partnership deductions have been allowed or are allowable, to the partnership in relation to the year of income of the partnership that corresponds with the year of income of the company; and 
the period that constitutes that corresponding year of income of the partnership is not the same period as the period that constitutes the year of income of the company, so much of the amount of that full-year partnership deduction or of the sum of the amounts of those fullyear partnership deductions, as the case may be, as the Commissioner considers fair and reasonable having regard to all the relevant circumstances shall be deemed to be a partnership deduction in relation to the company in relation to the year of income. ' '. 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50H(l)(a), omit " held ", substitute " beneficially owned ". 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50H(l)(b), omit "held ", substitute "beneficially owned ". 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50h(1)(c), omit "held", substitute "beneficially owned ". 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50H(l)(d), omit "natural person or natural persons", first occurring, substitute "person or persons". 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50h. ( 1) (d), omit "natural person or those natural persons acquired the control of that voting power", substitute "person or those persons acquired the control of that voting power or became capable of acquiring the control of that voting power, as the case may be,". 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50H(l)(h), omit "natural person who was or natural persons who were, at the relevant time, capable of controlling the voting power in the company", substitute "natural person or natural persons who controlled the voting power in the company at the relevant time or who was or were, as the case may be, capable of controlling the voting power in the company at the relevant time". 
In clause 9, omit sub-section (2) of proposed section 50h, substitute the following sub-section: "(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1)- 
a company shall be taken to have had an available loss immediately before atimeduringtheyearof income if, had the year of income ended immediately before that time, the assessable income of the company of the year of income would have been less than the allowable deductions (other than deductions under section 80 or 80aa) of the company of the year of income; and 
b) a company shall be taken to have had an available profit immediately before a time during a year of income if, had the year of income ended immediately before that time, the assessable income of the company of the year of income would have exceeded the allowable deductions (other than deductions under section 80 or 80aa) of the company of the year of income. ' '. 
In clause 9, in proposed section50h. (3) insert "a shareholding interest or" before "shareholding", first occurring. 
In clause 9, in proposed section50h. (3), insert "a shareholding interest or" before "shareholding" second occurring. 
In clause 9, in proposed section50h. (4) insert "a shareholding interest or" before "shareholding", first occurring. 
In clause 9, in proposed section 50H. (4) insert "a shareholding interest or" before "shareholding", second occurring. 
In clause 9, in proposedsection50M.(1)omit"3", substitute "4". 
In clause 9, in proposedsection50M.(2),substitute the following:  "A  is the amount ascertained by multiplying the excess amount by- 
if the year of income is the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1977-0.5; 
if the year of income is the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1978-0.4; 
if the year of income is the year of income commencing on 1 July 1979-0.3; 
if the year of income is the year of income commencing on 1 July 1980-0.2; 
if the year of income is the year of income commencing on 1 July 1981-0.1;". 
In clause 9, in proposed section50N. ( 1 ), omit "any other provision of this Act", substitute "the provisions of Subdivision A". 
In clause 9, in proposed section50N. ( 12) (c), omit "and". 
In clause 9, at the end of sub-section (12) of proposed section50N add the following word and paragraph: "; and (e) so much of any partnership deduction or partnership deductions as relates directly to income from private company dividends. ". 
In clause 9, in proposed section50N. ( 14) (c), omit "and". 
In clause 9, at the end of sub-section ( 14) of proposed section50N add the following word and paragraph: "; and (e) so much of any partnership deduction or partnership deductions as relates directly to income from dividends other than private company dividends. ". 
In clause 9, in proposed section50N. (16) (c), omit "and". 
In clause 9, at the end of sub-section ( 16) of proposed section50N add the following word and paragraph: "; and (e) so much of any partnership deduction or partnership deductions as relates directly to income from property other than dividends. ". 
In clause 9, in proposed section50N. (18) (c), omit "and". 
1 ) In clause 9, at the end of sub-section ( 1 8) of proposed section 50N add the following word and paragraph: "; and (e) so much of any partnership deduction or partnership deductions as does not relate directly to income from property. ". 
In clause 9, omit sub-section (22) of proposed section 50N, substitute the following sub-sections: "(22) Subject to sub-section (23), dividends paid to a company (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant company') by another company during a year of income of the relevant company shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be private company dividends if, and only if- 
the relevant company was a private company in relation to that year of income; and 
the other company was a private company in relation to the year of income of that other company during which the dividends were paid. "(23) In the application of this section for the purposes of determining the amount of any rebate to which a company is entitled, or that may be allowed to a company, under section 46 or 46a in relation to a year of income, a reference in this section, in relation to the company in relation to the year or income, to private company dividends shall be read as not including a reference to so much of any dividends paid to the company by another company that is a non-resident as was paid out of profits derived from sources out of Australia. ' '. 
In clause 12, omit sub-section (6) of proposed section 105AB, substitute the following sub-sections: "(6) Where, in pursuance of sub-section (2), the Commissioner has determined that a period is to be an additional distribution period, or that periods are to be additional distribution periods, in relation to a company in relation to a year of income (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant year of income'), so much of the dividend component of any distribution or of the sum of the dividend components of any distributions of money or other property made during that additional distribution period or those additional distribution periods by the liquidator of the company (being a distribution the amount of which was, or being distributions the amounts of which were, specified in a notice or notices given to the Commissioner by the liquidator in accordance with sub-section (5)) as exceeds the amount (if any) that would be the undistributed amount in relation to the company in relation to the year of income immediately preceding the relevant year of income if no regard were had to the distribution or distributions of money or other property made by the liquidator during that additional distribution period or those additional distribution periods shall, for the purposes of ascertaining, for the purposes of this Division, whether the company is deemed to have made a sufficient distribution in relation to the relevant year of income, be taken to have been made during the prescribed period in relation to the relevant year of income. "(6a) For the purposes of sub-section (6), the dividend component of a distribution made by the liquidator of a  company is so much of the amount of the distribution as is deemed by section 47 to be a dividend or dividends paid by the company to shareholders out of profits derived by the company.". 
Honourable members will recall that, in introducing this Bill on 8 June 1978, 1 said in my second reading speech that because of the complexity of much of the Bill, I considered that ample time should be given to interested parties to examine and comment on it. I said also that officials would be reviewing its technical features. These amendments arise from that process. Although there are in number 43 amendments to the Bill, they are closely inter-related and all are of a technical nature. Almost all of the amendments relate to the 'current year losses' provisions. Honourable members will recall that the current year losses provisions were introduced as a measure to counter the avoidance of tax by trafficking in current year company losses. The point of the measure, as of the provisions governing deductibility of prior year losses, is to prevent income earned by a company under the proprietorship of one set of shareholders being diminished for tax purposes by losses sustained under the proprietorship of a different group of people. The provisions employ and adapt the well-settled principles of the prior year loss provisions. 
I draw particular attention to amendment No. 2. This relates to a company to which the proposed current year losses provisions apply and which is involved in a dividend stripping operation. As indicated in the special note on page 58 of the explanatory memorandum on the Bill, the provisions of the Bill are deficient in dealing with these cases. The trouble is that the Bill was intended, in 'current year loss' situations, to apply the same rules for setting deductions against dividends subject to rebate as apply in situations where the current year losses provisions are not applicable. It failed to do this. The amendment is directed to correcting this deficiency. If it went uncorrected there could be the paradoxical situation that legislation introduced to prevent tax avoidance through acquiring current year losses could aid and encourage avoidance through dividend stripping. 
I mention also that amendments Nos 20 to 22 propose to replace references to the 'holding' of shares with references to the 'beneficial ownership' of shares. This amendment was foreshadowed in a statement I made on 28 July 1978 and will ensure that the 'continuity of ownership' tests in the current year losses provisions follow those already contained in the prior year losses provisions. Because of the subsequent introduction and passage of the Bills giving effect to Budget income tax measures, and introduction of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978, it has been necessary to re-number this Bill as the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1978. 
These and all the other amendments are explained in a supplementary explanatory memorandum that is being circulated, and because of their technical nature I think that it is not necessary for me to speak at further length at this time. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to respond very briefly to the remarks of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I am grateful that the honourable member acknowledges that the effect of an 8 per cent branch profits tax would be to put a branch at a disadvantage to a subsidiary, because that is precisely what would have happened. I think it is fair to say that the purpose of this proposal was to put companies that operated in Australia through branches as opposed to subsidiaries on the same tax basis. The concern that gave rise to the Government's decision was that branches, in making remittances, were not subject to dividend withholding tax or an equivalent. 
I simply say to the honourable member for Gellibrand that I am not persuaded that at this stage- naturally this is something that the Government would keep under review- that the Government ought to do other than accord an equality of treatment under the taxation system to companies which operate through subsidiaries and companies which operate through branches. 
With all due respect, I would want to hear some more powerful arguments than those advanced by the honourable member for Gellibrand to persuade me that we ought to use what in effect would be a penal rate of tax for the company involved to force it to change its mode of operations. It is very easy to say that and to point to a few technical advantages that companies operating through branches may have. But when one bears in mind the world-wide ramifications for companies- I think one ought to pay some regard to that- there would have to be some fairly good reasons why a government, through the tax system, would want to force companies to operate through subsidiaries rather than branches. Nonetheless, it is a matter we will keep under review. But for the present, the Government is not disposed to do other than, in a practical manner, give equality of treatment under the tax system or to ensure that there is no advantage under the tax system for a company operating through a branch. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These Bills to amend the sales tax law contain several measures directed against schemes and arrangements that have been entered into and have the purpose, or the effect, of avoiding sales tax. These measures, when placed alongside those that have been introduced or have been announced to counter income tax avoidance schemes, demonstrate the Government's resolve to act resolutely to prevent avoidance of tax. They will also introduce greater equity into the sales tax system. Apart from the substantial losses of revenue they cause, sales tax avoidance schemes enable those who enter into them to gain an unfair advantage in the market place over those who do not, either because they are not aware of the schemes or because they choose not to participate in them. 
The legislation is aimed at overcoming five different types of sales tax avoidance. The amendments needed to achieve this are somewhat voluminous but this is mainly due to the constitutional requirement that an Act imposing taxation shall deal with only one subject of taxation. For this reason, nine Sales Tax Assessment Acts exist and each has, on this occasion, to be amended. The legislation contained in the (No. 1 ) amending Bill is largely repeated in Bills Nos 2 to 4 and 6 to 8. Amending Bills Nos 5 and 9 deal generally with purely formal amendments. Three of the five main matters dealt with by the legislation were covered by my announcement of 20 September and, as I indicated at that time, the legislation in respect of them will be effective from that date. 
The first involves schemes under which goods are sold for a price substantially below their true wholesale value, ostensibly under an option granted to purchase them at that price. The amount paid for the option is normally the difference between the deflated sale price and the full wholesale price. The purpose of the scheme is to avoid sales tax on the part of the real purchase price represented by the amount paid for the option. Honourable members will recall that in my statement of 20 September I mentioned that new motor vehicles were being sold for as little as $20 under options to acquire them at that price for which several thousand dollars were paid. The amendments proposed by these Bills will provide that the sale value for sales tax purposes is to be what might reasonably be expected to be the wholesale value of the same or identical goods if no option agreement had been entered into. 
The second of the schemes mentioned in my statement of 20 September is one devised to circumvent an anti-avoidance provision contained in the existing law. The present law provides that, where goods are sold between associated companies, and it appears to the Commissioner of Taxation that the goods were sold for less than their fair and reasonable wholesale value, the Commissioner is empowered to alter the sale value for sales tax purposes to equate with a fair and reasonable wholesale value. The application of this provision is being avoided by interposing an unrelated company between associated companies. For example, an unrelated wholesale company may be interposed between associated manufacturing and retail companies. The interposed company sells the goods for much the same deflated price as it pays for them. The legislation to counter this type of scheme provides that, where goods are sold for less than an arm's length price, the sale value is to be the arm's length wholesale price of such goods or, where that cannot be determined, the arm's length wholesale price of identical goods. 
The third amendment foreshadowed in my statement of 20 September relates to the manufacture of goods from materials supplied by a customer to a manufacturer. Where goods are manufactured on this basis sales tax is payable only on the making-up charge and not on materials used in the manufacture. This led to arrangements in which, instead of buying a completed product from a manufacturer, a customer would enter into two contracts, one covering materials that the customer technically supplies' to the manufacturer and the other covering the making-up charge. Without such an arrangement, sales tax would be payable on a sale value equal to the full wholesale value of the completed product. The legislation proposed in relation to this tax-avoiding arrangement will mean that, where goods are manufactured for a customer wholly or in part out of exempt materials supplied by the customer, tax will be payable on the manufactured goods on a sale value that includes not only the making-up charge but also the value of any exempt materials supplied by the customer, other than second hand materials. The sale value will, however, not exceed an amount on which tax would have been payable if the manufacturer had obtained the materials from his usual sources of supply and the manufacture had been carried out in the normal way. 
These three situations were specifically covered by my statement of 20 September and, accordingly, the amendments in respect of sales between associated taxpayers and option schemes will apply to sales of goods after that date. The amendments in respect of the manufacture of goods from materials supplied by a customer will apply to goods manufactured under an agreement entered into after 20 September 1978. 
There are two other schemes covered by the Bills that were not specifically identified in my statement of 20 September. Accordingly, the amendments proposed in respect of these will have effect only after today. The first of the two schemes is an extension of the one I have already mentioned for a customer to supply materials to a manufacturer under a 'two-contract' arrangement. This particular scheme is a highly artificial one under which a customer avoids sales tax not only on the exempt materials used in manufacture but also on the cost of manufacture. In other words, under this scheme goods are acquired almost completely free of sales tax. This result is achieved by a customer formally taking over manufacturing premises or a part of them and hiring the manufacturer's staff to manufacture a particular item required for the customer's own use- usually a most expensive item. As the customer becomes, in law, the manufacturer of the goods and, as usually a 'one-off' transaction only is involved, the customer cannot, for the purposes of the sales tax law, be regarded as manufacturing goods in the course of carrying on a business. As a result no sales tax is payable. 
The amendments directed against this type of scheme make the customer, who legally becomes the manufacturer, subject to sales tax on the sale value on which tax would have been payable had the customer manufactured the goods in the course of carrying on a business- that is, the sale value will be the usual wholesale price of the goods. As .1 have said, these amendments will apply to goods the manufacture of which commences after today on premises made available under an agreement entered into after today. 
The final scheme that the amending legislation is designed to render ineffective involves avoidance of tax by the sale of goods at a price below a true wholesale value. This is achieved by separately billing the purchaser, in commercially unrealistic terms, for an additional amount ostensibly for the provision of services in connection with the goods, but which would ordinarily form part of the wholesale price. As amounts paid for services are not subject to sales tax, the tax may be avoided by inflating the service charge and reducing the nominal price of the goods. Amendments contained in the Bills provide that, where such schemes are entered into for the tax avoidance purpose of reducing the sale value of goods, the sale value is to be the usual wholesale selling price of the goods. These amendments will apply to goods sold after today. 
I wish to make it quite clear that this provision strikes only at arrangements which involve the reduction of sale value for the purpose of avoiding sales tax. I am aware that there are a number of industries in which it has been the practice for some time to enter into separate agreements, one covering the supply of goods and one covering services related to the goods. Sometimes, instead of separate agreements one company in a group acts as the sales company and another company as the service company, thus obtaining the same result. Where these arrangements are commercially justifiable- for example, where, as is common with some nationally marketed products, the separate billing is made at a commercially realistic level for services that are associated with the retail sale rather than the wholesale sale- the proposed amendments will not apply. Details of the amendments are contained in the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1975-76. 
(a) Provision for a survey of household income and expenditure in respect of 1979-80 was omitted from the forward staff estimates of the Australian Bureau of Statistics because the substantial resources required to develop and conduct such a survey were not available. 
and (c) The staff ceiling set for the Australian Bureau of Statistics for 1978-79 was less than that required by the Statistician to maintain ongoing statistical operations, develop and maintain statistical standards to meet the needs of users and undertake new high priority statistical work for 1978-79. As a result, it was necessary to review the planned ABS work program for 1978-79 to find ways of reducing the program to enable the ABS to stay within its allocated staff ceiling whilst causing the least possible impact on users of ABS output. 
The Statistician nominated a number of possible areas for program cuts. These were selected on the basis that they were not considered to be mainstream economic and social indicators, that they were as self-contained as possible so as not to have major repercussions on inter-related projects and that they were small to medium size so as not to concentrate the whole impact on one sector of the economy. 
On the basis of these considerations it was found necessary to terminate the quarterly and annual job vacancy surveys and further foreign participation studies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It was stated in the Budget Speech that the price of a car costing about $7,000 should be reduced by roughly $530- that is, about  TA  per cent- by the reduction in sales tax. From the Budget papers it is also clear that, in arriving at the sales tax revenue estimates, allowance has been made for an increase in the volume of sales (above that which was estimated to occur prior to the reduction in sales tax on cars and station wagons). While such estimates are necessarily imprecise, I am sure that the honourable member will be glad to know that such evidence as is available to date suggests that the revenue estimate in this area may prove to have been, if anything, somewhat understated. 
-The honourable member does well to draw the attention of the House, through his question, to the claims which are made about the social cost of the Government's economic policy. The truth is that the social cost of pursuing an alternative economic strategy to the one pursued by the Government would have been very large indeed. I think that it is worth reminding the House that at the recent meeting of the International Monetary Fund none other than the Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development reminded the gathering that the principal problem faced by Western governments in reducing unemployment in future years lies in controlling their inflation rates. In truth, what the SecretaryGeneral of the OECD was doing was giving the lie to the proposition that in some way by going easy on reducing the rate of inflation we can reduce the level of unemployment. 
This Government holds very much to the view that if alternative strategies had been followed the unemployment level in Australia would be greater. We believe that if greater success had been achieved by the Government in respect of its wages policy submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the level of unemployment in Australia at the present time would be lower. The proposition that there would have been less social cost with an alternative economic strategy is false. Indeed, the cost in social and economic terms of a more permissive economic strategy to those on fixed incomes, to those endeavouring to buy their own houses and to those small businesses endeavouring to invest and make profits would have been very significant. I think that the community and all members of this House ought to bear that in mind when they hear these extravagant charges about the alleged social cost of our economic policy. 
Once again, the Leader of the Opposition is indulging in simplistic propositions. He supposes that a given level of public sector spending will produce a given return in jobs. The honourable gentleman knows as well as any other member in this House that during this country's economic experience when the level of employment was directly linked to the level of public sector spending by governments, there was a very sharp rise in levels of unemployment. The Government simply does not accept the simplistic proposition that the number of people in employment in Australia can be fine tuned according to the volume of public sector spending made possible by this Government. 
The total amount of company tax paid in the financial year ended 30 June 1978 was $3 ,095m. During that year the cost to revenue of the investment allowance was of the order of $425m. It is estimated that in the current financial year the investment allowance will cost the revenue something in excess of $400m. Total company tax collections this year are estimated to be $3,222m. It is clear from those figures that in terms of revenue forgone the investment allowance represents a very major concession and major incentive virtually to the whole spectrum of business in Australia, be that business large or small. 
The honourable gentleman asked whether there are any benefits from the investment allowance beyond the taxation advantages that are involved. I think all honourable gentlemen would be aware that in an on-going sense the opportunity which the investment allowance has provided for Australian business to modernise much of its equipment and to take advantage of that allowance to make significant investments in plant and equipment has been of very considerable benefit to Australian business. This Government deliberately introduced the investment allowance to provide in the shorter term an incentive for capital investment. There is no doubt that the allowance has done that. It has triggered major capital investment by Australian business. In our view the investment allowance has done the job that it was designed to do when it was introduced. Not only has it been beneficial to Australian business in the direct taxation sense but also it has brought the broader benefits that I mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have not seen the report referred to and in the circumstances I am not able to provide detailed comments on  Mr Harrower's  statement. I would point out, however, that where the buying and selling of land constitutes either the whole or part of a person's normal business activities, any profits arising from such transaction would be taxable under the general taxing provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act. In other situations the profit may be assessable under either section 26 (a) or section 2 6  aaa  of the Act. Section 26(a) provides for the inclusion in assessable income of profit arising from the sale by the taxpayer of any property acquired for the purpose of profit-making by sale, or from the carrying on or carrying out of any profit-making undertaking or scheme. In addition, Section 26aaa of the Act provides for the inclusion in assessable income of profit arising from the sale of property (other than the taxpayer's home realised as a result of a change in his place of employment or business) within 12 months of its purchase. 
The honourable member would be well aware that the Labor Government proposed the introduction of a capital gains tax during its period in office, but decided not to proceed with the measure. In announcing that decision not to proceed in January 197S, the then Prime Minister, the  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam QC, said that: 'Thorough investigation of the proposal has shown that considerable difficulties are associated with such a measure at a time of inflation. 
The Government is also concerned at the downturn which has been evident in private investment, and it is aiming, with this decision, to provide the basis for a revival in investment. 
Private investment is essential for the welfare of the economy and the maintenance of full employment. ' 
I have had a fairly cursory look at a number of articles in the  National Times.  This question is in the vein of questions which have been asked by the Opposition in their obsession with peripheral politics. It is a mark of the priorities of the Opposition in this Parliament that in this current session the Leader of the Opposition has asked more questions about the financial affairs - 
-That puts up by one the tally of economic questions asked by the Leader of the Opposition for the whole year. I did him an injustice before as the figures I quoted were for the whole of the year. As to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition - 
If he can quieten his raucous colleagues on the front bench I shall answer it. The first question he asked me was: What is the intention of the Government in relation to the income tax surcharge? He knows as well as I do that the legislation imposing that surcharge is expressed to terminate on 30 June. This Parliament has already passed that legislation. The benefit to revenue of the 1.5 per cent increase in the rate is I think broadly, as the Leader of the Opposition said, about $560m. The Leader of the Opposition makes other assumptions about what the revenue situation will be when the Government comes to frame next year's Budget. I think it is just not possible for a government or a Treasurer to make definitive predictions about budgetary circumstances. 
-If the honourable gentleman will restrain himself I will come to the retail turnover tax in a moment. It is just not possible to make definitive predictions about what governments may or may not do in the broad budgetary policy area so many months in advance of next year's Budget. I am pleased that the Leader of the Opposition is at this stage of the year showing more interest in next year's Budget than he has demonstrated in the last Budget that I brought down. 
To come to the retail turnover tax, there is nothing in what the Government has done concerning its investigation into the broad based indirect tax which raises any implications regarding the timing of that tax, if it were decided that it might be introduced. I think the Leader of the Opposition has fallen into the error of a number of people in the community who are implying that the Government has already taken a decision to introduce a broad based indirect tax. All that we have done is to decide that, as pan of an inquiry into the indirect tax system in Australia, the Australian Taxation Office ought to carry out certain investigations. The result of those investigations will be before the Government within the next couple of months. If it were decided after receiving that information to take the matter further, a Green Paper would be released for a public discussion. I would be most interested to have the views of the Leader of the Opposition upon the contents of that Green Paper if in fact it is released. 
The level of foreign ownership in the tea industry alleged by the honourable member for Gellibrand as a result of the Government's decision - 
-I am sorry, the level of foreign control in the tea industry alleged by the honourable member I think is broadly correct, but I would need to check the precise figures after Question Time. The decision by the 
Government to approve this takeover followed earlier rejection of a proposal which would have resulted in a 100 per cent acquisition of the shares in Bushells Investments Ltd. As a result of that rejection, the Brooke Bond Liebig company submitted a revised offer which involved an immediate 25 per cent equity by the Australian Mutual Provident Society, together with an undertaking to move towards 5 1 per cent Australian ownership over a period of three to five years and a situation whereby the majority of the board of directors of the company were Australian citizens. In those circumstances, there was a clear willingness on the part of the company concerned to conform with the spirit of the Government's foreign investment policy. 
The honourable gentleman asked me about net economic benefits. I put it to the honourable gentleman and to the House that, in terms of this country's reputation as being receptive to foreign investment, in terms of this economy's capacity to attract the confidence of overseas investors in the Australian economy and in terms of the importance of the inflow of foreign investment to this country's economic future, I think all those interests would have been very severely prejudiced if this Government had, in the light of the action taken by the company concerned, rejected the second offer. This would have been so particularly against the background that, as the honourable member ought to know, there is a long-standing agreement between the vendor shareholders in the transaction and the Brooke Bond group to give the latter organisation the first right of refusal. Against all that background, for this Government to have rejected the proposal I believe would have meant that considerable benefits to Australia might have been prejudiced. I must say that, as the honourable gentleman will understand, in all these matters different views are held as to what net economic benefits are. 
The honourable gentleman referred to some criticism by the British Prices Commission regarding the pricing policy of the Brooke Bond company. I am not aware of the detail of that criticism, but suffice to say that from time to time many companies are subject to criticism by statutory authorities. Some of that criticism is justified; some of it is not. I, for one, do not propose to take the view that, because the British Prices Commission may have made a criticism of a particular company, that ought to be accepted as holy writ. 
My attention has been drawn to that editorial. I can agree with one part of it without any cavil. It states: 
The real interests of the economy lie not in forcing down interest rates but in creating the conditions in which rates fall naturally. 
The rest of the editorial is largely directed towards establishing that that has not been the case. I find that surprising. I also find surprising comments that have appeared elsewhere to the effect that the Government has been acting in disregard of market forces. It has been the policy of this Government for almost three years to create, inter alia, conditions in which it is possible to have falls in interest rates. I therefore find it surprising that when falls in interest rates occur the Government is accused, having laid the ground work for almost three years, of acting in disregard of market forces. 
The honourable member will be aware that one of the objectives of the Budget strategy of only three months ago was to create a climate for further sustainable reductions in interest rates. The suggestion that the Government has tried to pluck interest rate reductions out of the air in disregard of market forces and that part of this plucking out of the air' was epitomised by the decision not to have a November cash loan is incorrect. To those who have suggested, including the writer of the editorial in today's  Sydney Morning Herald,  that there should have been a November cash loan I point out that last year there was only one cash loan yet a larger than anticipated Budget deficit was financed; this year's response to the August loan was extremely good; a judgment as to whether a particular loan should be sought at a particular time and whether it should be a conversion loan, a cash loan or a combination of a conversion and cash loan depends upon circumstances that prevail at that time. 
The suggestion in the editorial that the main purpose of not having a cash loan was to put ourselves in an artificial position to cut bank rates is false, against the background of what I have said and what the Prime Minister said in answer to an earlier question. He pointed out that the reductions in the overdraft rate that have recently occurred are not out of harmony with reductions in other rates. The reduction in the long term bond rate over a period of about 15 months to the time of the November loan was about 1  Vi  per cent. A further shaving of that bond rate constituted about 0.2 of one per cent. 
Against that background I reject the suggestion that the Government has disregarded market forces. Our strategy over a long period of time has been to create the conditions in which it is possible to have sustainable reductions in interest rates. Suggestions that the decision about a cash loan in November was completely tailored towards interest rate considerations are, against the background of what I have said and what the Prime Minister has said, quite unfounded. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have nothing to add to the answer provided by me to Question No. 1672 (see  Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1667). 
The first point that has to be made - 
The first point to be made in this debate is that this motion which the Opposition has moved is not about the economic competence or otherwise of the Government; it is not about the Government's policies relating to unemployment; it is not about election promises; it is not about an alleged succession of scandals involving Ministers; it is not about areas of social responsibility. This motion is about the cumulative sensitivity of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to the fact that he is increasingly being seen in the Australian community as a person who ignores the significant responsibilities of his office. This motion, in company with the challenge which he gave a few days ago for a national debate with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the economy, is about the dawning awareness by the Opposition leader that he is not doing his job; it is about a realisation on the part of the honourable member for Oxley, the Leader of the Opposition, that over the past 12 months he has attached more importance to the Queensland redistribution than he has to the economy and employment, that he has thought that the business interests of two of my colleagues on the front bench have been more important than the economy. 
Perhaps even more importantly, this motion may well be about another fact which is internal to the Australian Labor Party and which is best illustrated by the information that when the Leader of the Opposition was speaking in the debate in which we are presently engaged, there were 22 Opposition members present and when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was speaking there were 29 Opposition members present. Above all, this debate is an eleventh hour attempt by the Opposition leader to respond to the criticism that has justifiably been made, not only from this side of the House, newspaper editorials and newspaper commentators, but also undoubtedly by his own party, that he has neglected his duties as Opposition leader. He has ignored the fact that the prime role of an Opposition is to present itself as an alternative government. He has shown an obsessive preoccupation with personal attacks on members on this side of the House. He has demeaned the forms of the House. He has devalued the currency of a censure motion. He has failed to deliver as an opposition leader an effective alternative to this Government. 
Knowing that the parliamentary session is coming to an end, knowing that in Question Time he has not set about crossexamining the Government's economic policies and its policies on employment, social responsibility and taxation, realising that he has but three days left he decides, as a desperate last minute bid, to pull on a censure motion which is as empty as the attacks the Opposition has made on my honourable colleagues on the front bench of the Government ranks. Above all, this motion ought to be seen for what it is. It is not a serious attempt to censure the Government. It is not a serious attempt to present an alternative to the policies and performance of this Government throughout the past 12 months. It is a procedural device to bolster the position of the Leader of the Opposition who realises not only his lack lustre performance during the past 12 months but also that the clouds of ideological differences within his own party, as illustrated by the motions on human rights of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party and the resolutions of other sections of the Labor Party, will come home to haunt him. 
This motion has nothing to do with this Government's performance or the alternatives offered by the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues throughout the year. It purports to call into question the economic competence of the Government and the management by the Government of the country's economy not only over the last 12 months but also over the last two years. It gives to the Government an authority, before the Parliament rises, to say something about its record in economic management over the past 12 months. I welcome that opportunity. It is a record of which the Government is proud. The Government believes that it demonstrates the fact that it has used the right combination of policies over the past 12 months which are designed to respond to the fundamental causes of the current economic problems. 
The first and most important indicator of the Government's performance in handling the economy is, of course, the inflation rate. Surely, on that one point there could be a rare degree of objectivity by the Leader of the Opposition and a rare degree of unanimity between the Government and the Opposition not a grudging acknowledgment but a full acknowledgment that the Government has had spectacular success in reducing this country's inflation rate. Let there be no doubt about it. The most important indicator of economic competence or incompetence is the country's inflation rate. That is not a matter that is very seriously in dispute. It was acknowledged by the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  a few months ago. It is universally acknowledged throughout the Australian community as having been one of the remarkable success stories of this Government. Having taken office with an inflation rate, even on the most charitable interpretation that might be used by the Opposition, of slightly over 14 per cent, we have now reduced that rate to below 8 per cent. 
A few short years ago the inflation rate in this country compared unfavourably with countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Our inflation rate is now below the average of OECD countries. There is no serious argument about that. International organisation after international organisation having respectability in economic affairs has commended the record of this Government in tackling the fundamental problem of inflation. Those organisations in increasing numbers are acknowledging, as this Government has acknowledged and proclaimed since it was elected in December 1975, the absolute link between the level of inflation and the level of unemployment. As recently as two or three months ago, the Secretary-General of the OECD  Mr van  Lennep when addressing a meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington said that there could be little doubt that the principal cause of unemployment in Western countries in recent years has been uncontrolled inflation. The message is very clear. Any party or government which ignores the link between inflation and unemployment does so at its peril, in terms not only of economic responsibility but also of delivering long term goods and benefits to those who are unemployed. On the first test of economic competence this Government has been a resounding success. We have reduced the level of inflation. Nothing can take that away from the credit of this Government. None of the interjections and heehawing of the Opposition can alter the fact that when it comes to inflation this Government undoubtedly has the runs on the board. Not even some of our critics outside this chamber are prepared to dispute that. 
The Leader of the Opposition professed in his speech a great interest in the question of interest rates. I accept that the Opposition Leader might believe in the cause of lower interest rates. He might in his heart want lower interest rates in Australia. But he demonstrated, as a member of the Government in which he served prior to 1 975 and again in the alternative Budget that he presented in August of this year, that whilst he may believe in the cause of lower interest rates he cannot apply himself to the policies which will deliver lower interest rates. We all know what happened to interest rates in this country under the previous Labor regime. We all know what happened to the long term bond rate, bank interest rates, the overdraft rate and a whole plethora of interest rates in the country. Yet despite that experience and despite the overwhelming evidence that a government cannot let go of fiscal restraint and monetary aggregates and sail imagine that it can have low interest rates, he presented an alternative Budget which he claimed provided for a deficit of $3,600m or thereabouts. In reality, unless he were retrospectively to withdraw the investment allowance to affect other taxation concessions and to introduce a capital gains tax, the real deficit in the Hayden alternative Budget would have been well over $4,000m. 
I simply pose the question to this House: What price lower interest rates with a deficit of over $4,000m? Not only would such a alternative deficit have prejudiced the cause of lower interest rates in the Australian community but also it would inevitably have meant much higher interest rates. A person with that record in Government and with that inability to grasp economic fundamentals in opposition can scarcely come into the House and chide the Government about its interest rate record. Since the Government took office it has proclaimed the cause of lower interest rates. It has pressed its belief in lower interest rates. It has been prepared to apply the policies which will give the circumstances in which interest rate reductions can occur. The runs, once again, are on the boardThere has been a reduction of over 1 1 per cent in the long term bond rate over the past 15 months. There is in contemplation the cumulative reduction of one per cent over the whole of this year in housing interest rates charged by banks. There does happen to have been a reduction of 0.5 per cent in the overdraft rate for loans of under $100,000 and for certain other categories of loans. There does happen to have been a large number of interest rate reductions in the commercial field. So, in terms of performance, this Government has demonstrated a capacity to deliver the goods so far as interest rates are concerned. 
Another key economic indicator, consumer sales, has indicated a steady increase over the past 12 months. Capital investment figures in this country have shown a very remarkable increase over the past 12 months. I acknowledge, of course, that the investment allowance, and particularly the phasing down of the investment allowance from 30 June, has had some impact on the figures for the first six months of this calendar year; but, even making allowance for that, the increase in capital investment has been very significant. Only today in this area one of my colleagues has drawn my attention to a table which appeared in yesterday's Melbourne  Age  and which deals with an interesting economic indicator- not the only economic indicator, but an interesting economic indicator- and is a response to some of the gloom merchants on the other side of this House who are worried about the construction industry. The table indicates that approvals in Victoria for factory buildings in 1977-78 totalled $1 10m for the Melbourne area and $25m for country areas, against comparable figures the previous year of $86. 5m and $2 1 .4m. 
Of course, that is only one group of figures, but it is another indication- a contemporary indication, an indication published yesterday- of the extent to which there is a greater willingness on the part of private people in Australia to invest because they have greater confidence and because inflation is under control. There is the prospect of greater economic stability. 
There is the prospect of being able to invest with much greater confidence. We come, of course, to the area of housing- an area in which the honourable member for Reid is very interested. The most recent figures of significance in the area of housing are the lending figures. If the honourable member analyses the bank and building society lending figures for September and October he will find a very significant upswing. 
Quite a bit of that upswing can be attributed to one of the Budget announcements, that regarding the asset ratios of the savings banks. The honourable member for Reid has interjected, saying: 'What about new housing commencements?' I will say something about new housing commencements, because it is relevant when we are looking at the housing area to understand one thing, namely that new commencements for housing are no longer the direct barometer of activity in the housing industry that they were 10 or 20 years ago. The fact of the matter is that in large parts of Australia there is a greater disposition to buy second hand houses or to carry out renovations than there was 10 or 20 years ago. The honourable member for Reid ought to understand not only that but also that demographic changes have reduced- they have not eliminated- the importance of new starts as an economic indicator. 
Let me move to one of the sectors of the Australian community that were so abysmally neglected, even abused, while the Australian Labor Party was in office, namely, the rural sector of Australia. If ever a sector of Australia was treated as a poor relation by a government, it was rural Australia under the Whitlam Government. What do we find now in the rural scene of Australia? Do we find the unrelieved gloom that comes from the Opposition? Do we find hesitancy about the future in rural Australia? No, we find a situation of confidence, a situation of optimism, a situation in which export orders are rising, a situation in which a 35 per cent to 40 per cent increase in farm incomes has been predicted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. I put it to the House that no section of the Australian community has been stronger in its support of this Government's anti-inflation polices than has rural Australia, because the people there know and understand the ravages of inflation. They know and understand the impact on costs of the huge and automatic wage increases that occurred in earlier years. The message, using indicators, is a message of optimism, not of gloom. It is a message of the Government steadily overcoming the economic problems of Australia. 
This Government has demonstrated a concern about this country's position in international economic affairs. We have devoted great energy to improving Australia's export markets. We have worked very hard to bring about sensible arrangements for the mining and export of Australian uranium. All that we have had from the Opposition has been constant sniping on this issue and a total ignorance of the enormous contribution that uranium exports can make to the balance of payments of Australia in the future. We have endeavoured to open up the export markets of this country to the European Economic Community. The Opposition has shown a total lack of interest in that. It has sniped at the concept from the word go. It has completely ignored the reality that this country cannot turn its back on the largest trading bloc in the world, and that it is in the long term interests of this country to try to develop greater export markets. 
Throughout this year the Opposition has spent a lot of time talking about taxation. Taxation is a subject in which I have, of course, for portfolio reasons, a great deal of interest. There are two things I would like to say about taxation during this debate. The first is this: If ever a government has done something for the cause of greater equity in the Australian taxation system, it has been this Government over the past 12 months. This Government, to the eternal embarrassment of the Opposition, which has always championed the cause of the low wage earner, has done more through its attack on tax avoidance to reduce the inequities in the Australian taxation system than any other government has done since the Second World War. It is to the eternal embarrassment of the Opposition that in the three years it was in government- the champions of the fixed wage and salary earner who, because of his circumstances, cannot indulge in tax avoidance schemes- it did absolutely nothing. The attack that this Government has mounted and will continue to mount on blatant tax avoidance in the Australian community is a demonstration of its concern for the equity of the taxation system. 
Moving from the narrower area of our antiavoidance measures, let me say something about taxation levels in this community. Let me remind the House that if the Hayden scales had stayed in place we would be paying $3,000m more tax this year. 
-The honourable member for Gellibrand is again sensitive on this. He has claimed that if Labor had remained in office it would have indexed the taxation scales. If that is the case, what was Labor's response in 1975 when the then Opposition supported tax indexation? It was deafening silence. When the present Opposition was in government and we who are now on this side of the House proposed tax indexation as an alternative policy, it said nothing about it. It has taken  2Vi  years to wring out of the Opposition a belated claim that if it had remained in government it would have indexed the taxation scales. The truth is that for the whole time the present Opposition was in government, it believed in the rhetoric of its then leader at Blacktown in 1972. After listing the huge program of public expenditure of a Labor government in answer to the rhetorical question How will we pay for it?' he said: 'We will pay for it through the huge and automatic increase in taxation collections which occurs from inflation's impact on the progressive taxation scales'. That was the policy Labor followed in government. 
For Labor to claim now that it would have indexed those tax scales had it remained in government is completely unacceptable and without credit. The reality is that the Labor Government believed in taxation through inflation. It did not want openly to legislate tax changes. It did not want openly to admit to the Australian community that it was increasing taxation. It, least of all, can claim now that it would have indexed the tax scales. This Government has done more to simplify personal taxation, this Government has done more to reduce taxation in the Australian community, than has any other government since the war. This year, for the first time in 10 years, there will be a real fall in the level of personal tax collections. This Parliament has already passed legislation abolishing Federal gift and estate duties. This Government has introduced tax indexation which forces governments openly to legislate changes. It has given significant taxation incentives to the corporate sector through the investment allowance and through the trading stock valuation adjustment. Its record on taxation is such that, despite the necessity temporarily to increase personal tax in the last Budget, the cost to revenue of the Government's tax indexation and tax reforms of last February in this financial year will still total some $700m. 
So let there be no doubt that when it comes to taxation the Opposition's attacks on the Government are without substance. The Government has demonstrated a commitment to tax equity and a commitment to taxation reform. It has demonstrated a commitment to bringing greater incentive back into the personal taxation system. Briefly,, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition talked about industrial relations and criticised the Government's conduct of industrial relations. Throughout the time that we have been in government we have tried to balance firmness in those situations when it is required with a willingness to conciliate and to consult with the trade union movement. It is the Fraser Government which has restored the National Labour Consultative Council. It was the Labor Government which effectively dismantled the old National Labour Advisory Council because the then Minister for Labour and Immigration believed that he knew more about industrial relations than anybody else and it was not necessary to have it. The only response that the Opposition has on industrial relations, and it ought to be remembered by everybody in this House and known throughout the Australian community, is that one of the first acts of the Labor Party if it were returned to power would be to repeal the industrial legislation introduced by this Government. That would mean repealing legislation to protect individuals against discrimination and persecution and repealing legislation to protect essential services. It would mean repealing legislation which is designed to remove as far as possible from the Australian community the abuse of union muscle; that is the pledge of the Opposition if it is returned. That ought to be remembered and understood in the industrial relations context. 
The Leader of the Opposition criticised the overseas borrowing program of the Government and sought to establish through the use of certain figures that the overseas borrowing program of the Government was storing up a huge debt for future Australian generations. He ignored to tell the House that the percentage of overseas debt to gross domestic product at present is lower than what it was ten years ago; that the interest liability for our overseas indebtedness now is no greater than it was ten years ago. He neglected to tell the House that traditionally this country has been a net importer of capital and that in those circumstances it is entirely consistent with the sort of economic policies that we have been following over the past three years to have a significant overseas borrowing program. Therefore, this motion which is categorised by the Leader of the Opposition as a serious attack on the performance of the Government over the past 12 months is nothing more than an eleventh hour attempt by him to respond to the mounting and legitimate criticism that he has ignored the real responsibilities of an Opposition Leader over the past 12 months. It is an attempt to bolster his own position within his own party. It is not a serious attempt to grapple with the performance of this Government over the past 12 months. He has not presented a credible case to this House regarding economic competence, regarding domestic economic management or regarding the alleged incompetence of the Fraser Government. In those circumstances I move as an amendment to the motion: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House reprimands the Leader of the Opposition for- 
1 ) his failure to properly address any of the substantial issues facing Australia; 
demeaning the House by obsessive personal attacks; 
belittling the House by unwarranted and careless attacks on the  Speaker  and hence Parliament as an institution, and 
attempting to disguise the left wing policies and trends within the Labor Party '. 
The reference to current initiatives in my statement of 12 July was to current initiatives in the sense of fresh valuations by the Commissioner of Taxation to be assigned to particular housing accommodation. I should mention that although the procedure adopted by the Commissioner of Taxation in a number of industries is for him to assign a value, the final determination of whether that is a fair value or not in terms of the Income Tax Assessment Act is something that an individual taxpayer can pursue through the usual review and appeal procedures of the Act. The honourable gentleman's question echoes a concern expressed by a number of members on both sides of the House that the matter be resolved. 
I can understand the honourable gentleman's interest and also that of other Queensland members on behalf of sections of the sugar industry. Only in the last couple of days I have requested that preparation of the necessary submission to the Government on the review of section 26E be expedited as much as possible. I should add, finally, that a review of the section will not be an easy matter because obviously the Income Tax Assessment Act must contain a provision which in broad terms provides for taxation of surrogate income. 
This Government in the conduct of its economic policies has tried to create conditions where interest rates can fall. We will continue to pursue policies which are designed to create those conditions. The impact of increases in overseas interest rates on capital outflow or potential capital outflow to Australia is naturally a matter that the Government has under notice. I do not accept that what has happened to United Kingdom and United States interest rates is necessarily going to have an adverse effect on capital inflow into Australia. I point out to the Leader of the Opposition that, whereas the effect of those increases has been to alter the interest differential between domestic and overseas borrowing, he ought also to bear in mind that the inflation rate in the United States is higher than the inflation rate in Australia, with a tendency to increase. The same can be said about the inflation rate in the United Kingdom. If we are trying to assess the impact of those changes on capital flows in and out of Australia, we also ought to bear in mind - 
-Yes- we also ought to bear in mind the course of domestic policy in the countries that we are seeking to compare. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned the money supply target and indicated that so far it is running ahead of the Budget projection. It is not unusual for the money supply at various stages of the year to be running ahead. I remind the Leader of the Opposition that month after month in the last financial year commentators and members of the Opposition said that the monetary target was not going to be achieved because seasonally it was running ahead of the stated target; yet the reality of the matter was that the final result for 1977-78 was very much in line with what was predicted in my predecessor's Budget in 1977. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains further measures designed to prevent income tax avoidance. It covers three main matters and in each case the amendment now proposed was foreshadowed in announcements I made earlier this year. The measures contained in this Bill, along with those that have already been introduced in both the income tax and the sales tax fields, constitute a most significant attack on tax avoidance. They are further evidence of the Government's continuing effort to ensure greater equity in the tax system. Other legislation against tax avoidance was foreshadowed during the year and I regret that it has not been practicable to bring forward all the planned measures before Parliament rises for the summer recess. Legislative form remains to be given to proposals outlined in my statements of 24 September and 3 October 1978. I assure honourable members that avoidance schemes identified in these announcements will be the subject of legislation introduced soon after the recess. 
I would like to think that it is understood that anti-avoidance and other taxation legislation introduced this year has, because of its wide scope and unavoidable complexity, placed a considerable strain on those responsible for its preparation. It has just not been possible to do any more in the time. So I think those who might be inclined to be critical that this or that has not yet been done might acknowledge that an extraordinary amount of difficult tax legislation has been produced and a lot of it put into the administrative system. There has been some criticism of the Government's policy of announcing an intention to legislate against particular avoidance schemes as soon as they are identified, with legislation being introduced at a later date to take effect from the date of the announcement. I am convinced, however, that this is the right way to take action against what, in most instances, are blatantly contrived and artificial arrangements. At the same time, an early announcement is vital to prevent a continuing and substantial loss of revenue. I do accept, however, that lengthy intervals between announcement and introduction of legislation should not occur. The Government will be guided by that objective. 
Turning now to the subjects of this Bill, I point out that the first group of amendments are about the pre-payment schemes I referred to in my statement of 19 April 1978. The second group is concerned with avoidance of tax on income from ex-Australian sources derived through trusts, and related problems concerning partnerships. I spoke about these in my statement on 8 June 1978. The third lot of amendments is concerned with tax avoidance arrangements involving truststripping. I made a statement on this subject on 12 June 1978. 
Pre-paid Interest, Pre-paid Rent and Similar Schemes 
In my statement of 19 April 1978, I described schemes involving pre-payments that fall within two general classes and outlined remedial measures proposed. The first class embraces schemes for pre-payments of amounts under arrangements designed to secure an income tax allowance for what purports to be deductible expenditure but is, in essence, either not a real expense or one of a non-deductible capital nature. An example of a scheme designed to secure an income tax deduction for an unreal or manufactured expense is the pre-paid interest scheme described in my announcement of 19 April 1978. Under that scheme, a taxpayer obtains a loan of $1,000, promptly pays $700 as a pre-payment of interest, and then buys back, or has an associate buy back, the rights in the loan for $370. The aim is to secure a $700 tax deduction for interest for a net outlay of only $70. The $70 is the lenders reward for participating in the scheme. 
An example of a scheme designed to secure a deduction for an otherwise non-deductible capital expense is the pre-paid rent scheme I referred to last April. Under this scheme, a taxpayer wishing to obtain new business premises worth $lm arranges for a tax-exempt institution to purchase the premises for that amount, then leases the premises from the institution and pays it $800,000 rent for five years in advance. The taxpayer also takes up an option to acquire the premises for $250,000. The institution makes a non-taxable profit of $50,000 and the taxpayer aims to secure a deduction, in the guise of an expenditure on rent, for the major pan of the capital cost of the building. Provisions of the Bill relating to these pre-payment schemes will preclude the allowance of income tax deductions for outgoings incurred under such schemes after 19 April 1978. 
The second type of scheme referred to in my April statement embraces tax avoidance arrangements between associated parties designed to provide a tax deduction to one of the parties in a year of income for an amount that, in whole or in part, will not be taxable to the other party until a later year or over a series of later years. Provisions of the Bill relating to these schemes will apply in two different ways according to whether or not the arrangements involve outlays for the future provision of goods or services. In cases involving such outlays, a deduction is to be available in a particular year of income for only so much of the total amount as can reasonably be apportioned to the goods or services actually provided in the year. In other cases, the deduction in a particular year of income is to be limited to the amount actually paid in the year. The provisions will apply only where the arrangements between the associated parties are entered into for the purpose of tax avoidance and the outgoings are incurred after 19 April 1 978. T stress that the provisions of this Bill designed to counter pre-payment schemes are concerned only with the schemes outlined in my announcement of 19 April. They do not extend to variations of the schemes referred to in my later statement on 24 September. Legislation directed against the further schemes will be introduced early in the autumn sittings. 
Foreign Source Income of Trusts and Partnerships 
The second group of measures contained in the Bill is designed to limit opportunities to avoid tax on income from an ex-Australian source that is derived through a trust or a partnership. These measures were foreshadowed in my statement on 8 June 1978, and as indicated then, will apply for the 1978-79 income year. The need for these amendments arose out of a High Court decision to the effect that the trust provisions of the income tax law do not apply to income of a trust that is derived from a foreign source. The Asprey Committee described this result as 'unacceptable' because it means that Australian residents can defer- or even escape completely- tax on foreign source income that is accumulated for their benefit. 
The basic thrust of the proposed provisions is to ensure that both Australian and foreign source trust income to which an Austraiian resident beneficiary is presently entitled in the year of income will be taxed under the trust provisions to the beneficiary or, if the beneficiary is under a legal disability, such as infancy, to the trustee. To provide also for situations in which there is trust income to which no beneficiary is presently entitled- broadly, income that is being accumulated without any beneficiary having a right to demand it from the trustee- a concept of a resident trust estate is being introduced. This was recommended by the Asprey Committee. A resident trust estate will be one with a resident trustee, or with its central management and control in Australia, at any time during the year. In terms of the Bill, a trustee of a resident trust estate will be taxed on the part of world-wide income of the trust estate that is assessable income under the general provisions of the income tax law and to which no beneficiary is presently entitled. As at present, no further Australian tax will be payable by a beneficiary to whom such income is subsequently distributed. The Bill provides, however, for refunds of Australian tax in a special and unusual case. This is the case where foreign source income is later distributed to a beneficiary who was a non-resident at the time the income was derived by the trust estate. In that case Australian tax attributable to the foreign income so distributed is to be refunded on application by the beneficiary. 
Provisions are also included to ensure that a resident beneficiary is taxed on foreign source income that had first been accumulated but was later paid or applied for the beneficiary's benefit. These provisions will apply if the income was not taxed in Australia while accumulating in a trust estate that is not a resident trust estate and would have been taxable to a resident beneficiary had he or she been presently entitled to it when it was derived by the trustee. The provisions include rules designed to prevent a beneficiary escaping tax on a technicality that an amount or benefit is not received as income. Existing provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act will prevent double taxation of foreign source income to which the amended trust provisions potentially apply where that income has also been taxed in the foreign country of source. To aid administration, a trust which does not have a resident trustee, and which carries on business or derives income from property in Australia, will be required to appoint a public officer in the same way as a company is now similarly required. 
The Bill also contains provisions to make it clear that income from abroad is to be included in calculating the net income of a partnership, and that a resident partner is liable to tax on a share of the partnership's world income, subject to provisions giving relief from double taxation of foreign source income that is taxed in the country in which it arises. Non-resident partners will continue to be subject to Australian tax only on income attributable to sources in Australia. Before moving to the next group of amendments I note that, as I said in my statement on 8 June 1978, the taxation of trust income of beneficiaries is- as has always been intendedbased specifically on the present entitlement of the beneficiaries. The fact that a beneficiary is paid income to which he or she is otherwise presently entitled will not impair the operation of provisions of the income tax law the application of which depends on the beneficiary being presently entitled to income. 
Trust Stripping Schemes 
The remaining provisions of the Bill will implement proposals I announced on 1 1 June 1978 to deal with trust and associated arrangements seeking to bring about the happy situation that neither the trustee nor an intended beneficiary, nor anyone else, pays tax on substantial income derived by the trust estate. As explained in my earlier statement, there are several variants of the schemes but, for the most part, they rely on a nominal beneficiary being introduced into a trust and being made presently entitled to income, thus relieving the trustee of any tax liability in respect of the income. It is, however, a feature of the arrangements that the introduced beneficiary also escapes tax by one means or another. For example, the nominal beneficiary may be a taxexempt body such as a charitable institution. In any event, this nominal beneficiary retains only a minor portion of the trust income, while the group for whose benefit the trust in substance exists secures effective enjoyment of the major portion, but in a tax-free form. For instance, the nominal beneficiary may have acquired its interest in the income by payment of a broadly equivalent sum to the persons really intended to take the benefit. 
The provisions designed to counter these schemes will look to the existence of an agreement or arrangement under which, for purposes of tax avoidance, present entitlement to a share of trust income is conferred on a beneficiary in return for the payment of money or the provision of benefits to some other person, company or trust. In those circumstances, the provisions will treat trust income dealt with under what is aptly termed the 'reimbursement agreement' as not being income to which any beneficiary is presently entitled. The effect will be to make the trustee liable to tax on the income under section 99a of the Income Tax Assessment Act at the prescribed tax rate, which is 61.5 per cent for 1978-79. The change in the law will apply to trust income paid to or applied for the benefit of a beneficiary on or after 12 June 1978 under tax avoidance schemes of the kinds mentioned and will not apply in the context of an agreement or arrangement that is entered into in the course of ordinary family or commercial dealing. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I mention that the Government does not seek passage of this Bill until the autumn sittings. As I indicated earlier, I readily accept the need to bring in legislation as soon as practicable after an announcement is made. It is to this end that the Bill is being introduced so that provisions giving effect to the earlier announcements on subjects of the Bill are available for study by interested members of the public and the Parliament, before being debated by the Parliament. The Government is strongly committed to the policy expressed in the legislation but it is of course ready to examine any constructive comments that might be made about technical features of the legislation after it has been examined by interested parties. Details of the various provisions of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's  queston  is as follows: 
I am unable to answer the honourable member's specific question regarding the taxation affairs of the Utah Company because the secrecy provisions of the income tax law do not permit the Commissioner of Taxation to divulge such information to me. Speaking generally, however, the amount of Australian tax payable in respect of the Australian business profits of a foreign-owned company that produced a taxable income here of $91m would, assuming legislation now before the House is enacted, depend on whether the Australian business is carried on through a subsidiary company or through a branch. In either case, primary Australian company tax of $41. 86m would be payable on the taxable income. In the case in which the business is carried on through a subsidiary company, however, dividends withholding tax at the rate of 15 per cent would be payable on dividends declared to the overseas parent company, if resident in a country with which Australia has a double taxation agreement, or 30 per cent if resident in a country with which Australia has no such agreement. The amount of withholding tax would depend on the amount of profits distributed out of profits remaining after payment of primary company tax. In the case in which the business is carried on through a branch, the 'branch profits tax' legislation currently being considered by the Parliament would, in broad terms, impose additional tax of 5 per cent on the taxable income of $91 m, in lieu of dividend withholding tax. In each case, of course, further tax would generally be payable in the home country of the parent or other shareholder. 
Primary company tax of $41. 86m would also be payable on a taxable income of $91 in derived by an Australian resident company. To the extent that the company distributed profits remaining after the payment of this tax to personal (i.e., non-corporate and non-exempt) shareholders resident in Australia, tax would also be payable on the dividends received by the shareholders at a rate determined by reference to the taxable income of each. (3)I know of nothing to suggest that, when the aggregate tax liabilities I have spoken of are compared, there is any bias in favour of overseas owned companies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank obtains from the trading banks statistics of all documentary letters of credit established by them each month. Figures for letters of credit outstanding at the end of each month are not collected because this would involve extra costs which are likely to exceed the expected benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank supplies the aggregate statistics of documentary letters of credit established by major trading banks to the Treasury, the Department of Overseas Trade and Resources and the Australian Bureau of Statistics each month as soon as the figures are available. 
b) These figures are not collected. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Foreign Takeovers Act 1975, the Government has made orders prohibiting proposed acquisitions by foreign interests of Australian businesses on four occasions. Two of the orders have been subsequently revoked. 
The parties to the proposed acquisitions referred to in ( 1 ) and the dates on which orders in respect of the proposals were gazetted are as follows:- 
Lloyd International Ltd/Trans City Corp Ltd- 18 February 1976. 
Marie Allen, Richard Bruitt, Edward Bars, Cornelie Lowndes/Quanbun Downs Pty Ltd- 3 December 1976 (revoked 23 March 1977). 
Octopus Books Ltd/Rigby Ltd- 17 October 1977. 
Brooke Bond (Australia) Pty Ltd/Bushells Investments Ltd- 6 September 1978 (Press statement announcing revocation, 21 November 1978. 
Note: Interim orders may also be made under section 22 of the Act if greater time is required to examine certain proposals. An interim order prohibits the implementation of a proposal for period of 90 days, but may be revoked before the end of that period. To 21 November 1978, 15 interim orders have been made, one relating to a proposal which was subsequently prohibited by a final order, and 3 that have been subsequently revoked. Of the11 remaining proposals for which interim orders were made, 4 were later approved, 5 were withdrawn and 2 remain under examination. 
As well as the proposed acquisitions referred to above, in respect of which action to prohibit the acquisitions was available under the Foreign Takeovers Act, the Government, in the period of 8 April 1976 to 30 June, 1978, has declined to approve 6 proposals notified under the Act that were found to be inconsistent with foreign investment policy. The need to maintain confidentiality in these cases precludes the disclosure of information regarding these proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost to revenue of the trading stock valuation adjustment is not recorded separately, but the estimated costs in the 1977-78 and 1978-79 financial years are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Preliminary statistics for the 1976-77 income year indicate that the number of taxpayers who were charged health levy was 1,835,795 out of 5,603,258 tax, insurance and/or levy-payers whose assessments issued in the period from 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978. A dissection by grade of net income of 5,478,994 assessments of which an estimated 1,797,1 10 were those of levy-payers is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought in relation to taxable individuals (including those subject to health insurance levy only) whose assessments were accounted for in the main income tax statistical tabulations for the income years 1974-75, and 1975-76, in the preliminary statistics for 1976-77 and in early results for 1977-78 (covering assessments issued to 31 October 1978) is summarised in the attached tables. In addition the numbers and amounts of deductions recorded in respect of non-taxable returns which were included in statistics of returns dealt with under the computer-assisted assessing process for these years were as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has advised that in calculating the increases or decreases in the real value of the wages specified he has assumed that the wages are award rates of pay and hence that each indexation decision would have applied to the full weekly wage. On this basis, for persons now receiving  $100  a week the increase in the real value of the wage, that is, in relation to the CPI since December quarter  1975,  is  1.3  per cent For persons now receiving  $125, $150  and  $200  a week the changes are decreases of  0.7  per cent,  1 .9  per cent and  4.3  per cent respectively. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1  ) There have been reports attributing statements of this general kind to the  Hon.  William Hayden. I do not propose to inquire further as to the nature of communications in October  1975  between  Mr Hayden  and his then advisers. 
The Government provides forecast information about the economy in the Budget Speech and Statement No  2  attached thereto and, from time to time, in Ministerial statements. Among the inputs into the processes leading to such forecasts is material derived from the application of the National Income Forecasting model. The degree of detail provided in published forecasts is a matter for Government decision from time to time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated price elasticity of demand for imports varies with: 
the types of imported goods and services to which the elasticity refers; 
the interval of time allowed for the change in price to influence the level of imports; 
the choice of model of the determination of imports and the choice of sample period over which the model is estimated. 
Estimates of the price elasticity of demand for imports can therefore vary considerably. The NIF-7 version of the Treasury- Australian Bureau of Statistics National Income Forecasting Model provides an estimate of around  -1.1  for an elapsed time of two to three years, for imports of goods other than government imports and imports of petroleum and civil aircraft. That is, a  1  per cent rise in import prices is estimated (other things being equal) to lead to a  1.1  per cent fall in this category of imports measured at constant prices over this interval of time. Other available estimates range above and below this figure. 
Specific estimates of the price elasticity of demand for imports for the separate commodity groups listed are subject to a great deal of variability. In general, for these commodity groups where domestically produced substitutes are important, the estimates of the elasticities tend to be larger than the estimates for total imports. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will appreciate that balance of payments transactions can be greatly affected by variations in domestic supplies of rural commodities and in conditions in overseas markets; as well as by broader economic developments at home and abroad. In these circumstances, the calculations requested, which are of a highly simplistic kind, would produce results of little, if any, practical value. I do not believe, therefore, that the work required to give the figures requested by the honourable member would be warranted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am aware of a recent press report in which it was stated that every taxpayer contributes $16 per week to help pay for State and Federal public service superannuation payments. I do not know the basis of that or the other figures quoted in the question, and I am not able to confirm them. But whatever the figures are, it should be understood that the taxpayers from whom taxation revenue is derived include present and retired public servants, and the present public servants also themselves make contributions towards their retirement benefits. Also, private employees belonging to superannuation schemes benefit not only from their own contributions but also from employers' contributions which are met out of amounts the general community pays, directly or indirectly, for goods or services supplied by the employers. 
The Commonwealth Government is responsible for superannuation schemes for its own present and past employees, but not those for State employees who are included in the figures quoted in the press report I have mentioned. 
The present Commonwealth superannuation scheme results from changes made in 1976 which were the subject of considerable debate in the Parliament at that time. Estimates of the costs of the new arrangements were outlined in an Explanatory Memorandum circulated with the Superannuation Bill 1976. The costs of the new scheme are much less than those that would have resulted had the Superannuation Bill 1975, introduced by the then Labor Government, been brought into effect. 
Post-graduate Scholarships  (Question No. 2553) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Changes in taxation can normally be expected to affect some taxpayers more than others. In the absence of a survey of all holders of Commonwealth post-graduate awards, it is not possible to determine whether the Budget decision to tax those awards would have the effects which the honourable member has mentioned. 
No additional benefits are being provided under the Post-Graduate Awards Scheme by way of offset to the Budget decision. 
I do not consider that the proportion of GNP devoted to research has any relevence to the present matter. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The rights to the Blair Athol coal deposit are held by Blair Athol Coal Pty Ltd, a company owned as to 62 per cent by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd and 38 per cent by S &amp; M Fox Pty Ltd, a company of the Daniel K. Ludwig group. As S &amp; M Fox is wholly foreign owned and CRA is owned as to 72.6 per cent by the Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation of the United Kingdom, the present level of beneficial foreign ownership in Blair Athol is approximately 83 per cent This level would not be changed if another foreign interest were to acquire the share of S &amp; M Fox. 
A proposal for a foreign interest to acquire, even from another foreign interest, a substantial shareholding in Blair Athol would be examinable by the Foreign Investment Review Board under the Government 's 'foreign investment policy. All information received by the Foreign Investment Review Board in relation to foreign investment proposals is treated with the strictest confidence and it is not the practice to disclose whether or not a specific foreign investment proposal has been received. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question, which is assumed to refer to overseas borrowings, is as follows: 
The following tables provide the answers to questions 1 (a) (b) (c) and (d). The annual rates of interest and charges paid during the same periods and years (question 2 (b))are also included in the tables. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have had a number of representations seeking amendment of the basis of taxation of animal racing dubs. 
Yes. 
Statistics of income tax paid by racing, trotting and greyhounds dubs are not available but an indication of the amounts involved may be obtained from the published statistics of taxable non-profit companies classified to the industry 'Entertainment, sport and recreation (Code 60)'. These figures are available from Taxation Statistics 1975-76, the supplement to the 55th Report of the Commissioner of Taxation and earlier issues. Non-profit companies in Industry code 60 include organisations other than the types of dubs mentioned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Asprey Taxation Review Committee recommended the introduction of provisions to allow private companies with only a small number of shareholders to elect to be taxed as a partnership. The Government is examining this recommendation along with numerous other recommendations made by the Asprey Committee. 
Private Companies: Restriction of Tax-free Allowance (Question No. 2763) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Aa provides that private companies must distribute a specified minimum proportion of after-tax profits in order to avoid an additional tax at the rate of 50 per cent of the amount by which the actual distribution falls short of the required distribution. For distributions in respect of taxable incomes of the year 1975-76 and subsequent years, the Government increased from 50 per cent to 60 per cent the minimum proportion that can be retained without incurring additional tax. 
The purpose of Division 7 is to impose on owners of private companies an overall amount of tax comparable to mat which would be payable if the business were not incorporated, but operated as a sole trader or partnership. The Asprey Taxation Review Committee accepted that, as long as the maximum marginal rate of tax for individuals exceeded the company tax rate, the Division 7 provisions would be necessary to prevent the use of private companies as a means for high-income shareholders to avoid tax. 
The Government considers that the present provisions ensure an equitable outcome and, at the same time, allow private companies adequate scope for financing investment by way of retained earnings. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All relevant factors were taken into account in the 1978- 79 Budget deliberations on the future of the maintenance rebates for overseas dependants. 
Statistics of rebates claimed in respect of dependants of migrant and ethnic groups are not compiled separately. However, rebates for parents and parents-in-law would relate almost exclusively to migrant taxpayers. The amounts of rebates allowed for parents and parents-in-law as disclosed in the early statistics for the 1977-78 income year, which relate to assessments issued to 31 October 1978, were $9.1m for taxable individuals and $0.4m for non-taxable individuals. The amounts of rebates claimed would, of course, exceed the amounts of rebates allowed. 
The potential for abuse of the former system was such that there were only two courses: to retain the system, with all that implied by way of revenue loss and administrative burden, or to abolish it 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My answer to a question without notice on 1 1 October 1978 included the following statement: "The Budget deficit for the first three months of this financial year is $2,50 1 million and it is to be expected that in the normal pattern of seasonal development that will get greater until later on in the financial year when of course it will reduce. ' 
In 1977-78 the Budget deficit peaked in March at around $2,000 million above the full year outcome, and in 1976-77 it peaked in February at about $2,800 million above the full year outcome. There are both seasonal factors and factors specific to this year that would indicate a similar pattern for 1978-79: 
The major part of PA YE refunds are paid early in the financial year. Typically, over half total refunds have been paid by end-September and over 80 per cent by endDecember. 
Collections of income tax from 'other' (non-PAYE) individuals are normally bunched in the last four months of the financial year; in 1976-77 and 1977-78 over 90 per cent of collections were received between 1 March and 30 June. 
In some years the pattern of company tax instalments/ collections has resulted in low receipts in the early part of the financial year; in 1976-77 the first major instalment was collected in March and in 1977-78 in November; the seasonal factor is less apparent for 1978-79 as quarterly payments of company tax have been resumed. 
Increases to customs and excise duties announced in the 1978-79 Budget did not take effect until after Budget night. 
The temporary increase in the standard rate of personal income tax did not come into effect until 1 November and will not influence receipts figures until the month of December. 
Changed timing of lump payments to schools and tertiary institutions and for some defence items, boosted outlays in the September quarter. 
Payment of the full tax sharing entitlement to local government authorities for 1978-79 was made before 30 September this year. 
Changed administrative arrangements for the Northern Territory resulted in larger and earlier disbursements than had been usual in earlier years. 
Yes. 
The Budget estimate for unemployment and sickness benefits in 1978-79 is $952.0 million, $9.6 million higher than the figure for 1 977-78. The Budget estimate is based on a higher average number of beneficiaries than in 1977-78, but this is partly offset by savings stemming from the review of Department of Social Security's systems and procedures. These savings (estimated at about $50 million) are expected to be reflected mainly in figures for the latter part of the year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It was indicated in Statement No.  4  attached to my Budget Speech for 1978-79 that the temporary increase in the standard rate of income tax to 33V4 per cent, for 1978-79 only, would be reflected in PA YE instalment deductions from 1 November 1978. 1 indicated that from that date, PAYE deductions would increase by an amount designed to make deductions received over 1978-79 broadly equivalent to the increase tax to be assessed on the income of 1 978-79 as a whole. Allowing for a month 's lag in PAYE collections (deductions made by an employer in one month are not received by the Taxation Office until the next month) this meant that PAYE deductions for only the seven months from 1 November 1 978 to 3 1 May 1979 would be received in the 1978-79 financial year. Accordingly, in order that receipts in 1978-79 would reflect the full year equivalent of the temporary rate increase, PAYE deductions from 1 November had to be increased by the factor 12/7. The excess deductions in June 1 979, which will be received by the Taxation Office in July 1 979, will form part of refunds which will commence to issue in that month. 
Regulations prescribing PAYE deductions calculated on this basis, and incorporating other relevant Budget changes, were duly made. The Commissioner of Taxation arranged for the publication and distribution of tax instalment deduction schedules and notes for employers that set out details of the PAYE arrangements applicable from 1 November 1978, as foreshadowed in the Budget Speech. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The information sought is published in Budget Paper No. 10 'National Accounting Estimates of Receipts and Outlays of Commonwealth Government Authorities', August 1978, Table S, page 18. 
1977-78. 
The implications for the money supply and the rate of inflation of Commonwealth transactions in 1978-79 are discussed in Statement No. 2 'The Budget and the Economy' pages 47, 48 and 49 attached to the 1978-79 Budget Speech. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As mentioned in my Second Reading Speech on the Primary Industry Bank Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978  (Hansard,  26 October 1978, page 2376) the major trading banks and the four State banks concerned will receive a maximum interest rate margin of l.S per cent per annum to cover administrative costs and risks over the Full period of the long term loans. Thus, under the present arrangements, the Primary Industry Bank will lend to banks at 8.5 per cent in respect of loans below $100,000 and 10.5 per cent in respect of larger loans. This will in turn permit the banks to lend to primary producers within the maximum interest rates of 10.0 and 1 2.0 per cent that have been announced. 
No 'agency' or other fee is payable by the Primary Industry Bank to the banks under the agreed arrangements. I mention that the banks are not in fact agents of the Primary Industry Bank; the relationship is rather one of 'prime lender', and 're-finance lender'. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 1794  (Hansard,  23 November 1978, pages 335 1-2). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The decision by the Government to subject family allowances to an income test based on the child's net income has been rescinded, as the honourable member is aware. That being so, the issues raised in his question no longer arise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
Department of the Treasury 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Yes. 
Exemptions and multiple rates (including zero rates) are a feature of most, but not all, value-added taxes now in existence. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two revisions to the 1978-79 Budget have resulted in an estimated $4m reduction in revenue in 1 978-79. 
The revisions are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Staff levels by category as at 30 June: 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
I am aware that the various state organisations arranged a conference to discuss indirect taxation. 
Yes. 
Value-added Tax (Question No. 3025) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The actual cost to income tax revenue of the investment allowance is not recorded, but the estimated costs in 1976-77 and 1977-78, based on deductions allowed in assessments in respect of the 1975-76 and 1976-77 income years, are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of the Treasury: (a) 1; (b) 1; (c) Nil; (d) Nil. 
Australian Bureau of Statistics: (a) 29; (b) 31; (c) The Department of Administrative Services has been asked to issue tender specifications for the re-equipment of the ABS computer installations. The specification is designed to provide sufficient computing capacity to enable 19 of the existing computers to be replaced, over a period of time. It is not yet possible to say how many separate computers will be procured as a result of this specification; (d) 2. 
Australian Industrial Development Corporation: (a) Nil; (b)Nil;(c)Nil;(d)Nil. 
Australian Taxation Office: (a) 24; (b) 24; (c) Nil; (d) Nil. 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation: (a) 8; (b) 12; (c) 2;(d)4. 
Reserve Bank of Australia: (a) 3; (b) 3; (c) Nil; (d) Nil. 

-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It is the Government's normal practice not to disclose information relating to individual foreign investment proposals. 
The Queensland Government has publicly indicated that the proposed expenditure on the project would be $100m. 
The Government's foreign investment policy does not specify Australian equity guidelines for projects of the kind proposed by Iwasaki Sangyo (Australia) Pty Ltd. 
The Government's foreign investment policy provides that a new uranium project involving investment by foreign interests, not already in production, will only be allowed to proceed provided it has a minimum of 75 per cent Australian equity and is Australian controlled. Any proposal by foreign interests to participate in a new uranium project would require examination by the Foreign Investment Review Board in terms of the policy and approval by the Government. 
I am informed that up to 30 June 1978 the Australian Industry Development Corporation had committed funds totalling $454 million to the financing of Australian industry. Virtually all of this has assisted directly or indirectly in supporting or strengthening Australian ownership in industry. In its financing activities, the Corporation necessarily conforms to the normal standards of commercial confidentiality and particulars of individual customer accounts cannot be made public. However, the Corporation has been largely instrumental in achieving predominant Australian ownership or preserving the Australian ownership of several major new development projects in such important areas as woodchip production and export, steel, fabrication, the nickel industry, rationalised distribution facilities, energy resources, the offshore oil-drilling industry, and the export of Australian processed foods. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the table on page 7 of Budget Paper No. 6, Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1978, which shows the differences in the Australian currency equivalents of both interest liability and overseas debt outstanding as at 30 June 1978 which results from applying 30 June 1977 rates of exchange in lieu of 30 June 1978 rates. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Local government rates totalling $883m were collected in the six States during 197S-76 (accounting year ended December 197S in NSW, accounting year ended September 1976 in Victoria, financial year ended June 1976 for the other four States). This represented S8.S per cent of total local government receipts for that year. A preliminary estimate for rates collected in 1976-77 is $l,035m but an estimate of total receipts for that year is not yet available. The figures for rates collected exclude water and sewerage rates which are defined as pan of public enterprise income. Total local government receipts are defined as rates and penalties, revenue from licenses, fees and fines, income from public enterprises, property income, and grants from State and Commonwealth Government. Financing items, the most significant of which is net borrowing, are not included. 
and (3) The estimated cost to income tax revenue of the rebate allowed in respect of the 1976-77 income year for local government rates and taxes, measured in terms of the additional revenue which would have resulted from excluding such payments from the total expenditure in excess of $ 1 ,525 that qualified for rebate at 40 per cent in that year, is about $30m. Total Commonwealth receipts in 1976-77 were $2 1,383m; the cost of the rebate was therefore about 0.14 per cent of that total. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The recommendations referred to by the honourable member have not been implemented. However, as pan of the continuing review of the operations of the Insurance Act 1973, they are currently under close examination, along with other suggested amendments. The Insurance Commissioner is being closely consulted on this matter. 
The general principles which apply are those given legislative force by paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section 46 ( 1 ) and sub-sections 46 (2) and 46 (3) of the Act. Some specific responsibilities of auditors are set out in sub-section 47(3). 
No. 
No. 
The considerations taken into account are those arising from the general principles set out in sub-sections 46 ( 1 ), 46 (2) and 46 (3) of the Act. 
59. 
It was never intended that the Act should impose on the Commissioner the responsibility of undertaking a complete audit of all insurance companies subject to hrs supervision. This would be a duplication of the audit function provided for under sections 46-47 of the Act. To conduct such an audit on a regular basis would involve very large numbers of professionally qualified people. It is considered that the high cost involved could not be justified by the benefits likely to be obtained. 
Sub-section 30 ( 1 ) of the Act excludes certain specified assets from being taken into account for the purposes of the Act. Sub-section 30 (2) gives the Commissioner discretion to allow certain related body corporate investments as assets which are otherwise excluded by sub-section 30 ( 1 ). 
The Commissioner has not issued any formal guidelines as to assets he is prepared to approve under sub-section 30 (2) except in general terms through statements made in his annual reports (see particularly pages 7-8 of the Second Report and pages 1 5- 1 8 of the Third Report) . 
In his annual reports the Commissioner has made particular mention of his disquiet concerning loans to related companies, other than those made to related bodies effectively controlled by the insurance company. He has also outlined his general approach regarding shares in subsidiary companies. 
The discretion given the Commissioner in terms of subsection 30 (2) requires the Commissioner to examine each case on its merits and for a large range of matters to be taken into account depending upon the circumstances involved. Accordingly the Commissioner has not considered it practicable to issue more specific guidelines than those indicated in his annual reports mentioned above. 
Regulations have already been made under Pan IV (see Regulations 9-25). A number of aspects are currently being considered which may give rise to proposals to amend the Regulations. It is also relevant that if amendments are made to the Act (see answer to (2) above) consequential amendments to the Regulations may be necessary. 
All returns and statements required to be lodged under the Act and Regulations are monitored to ensure their formal compliance with the standards required by the Act and Regulations, and requisitions are made on companies for correction and resubmission of returns and statements which do not meet such statutory requirements. 
12) As the result of his contacts with the National Conference of Insurance Commissioners in USA, the Commissioner is introducing new procedural arrangements which will provide an Early Warning System somewhat similar to that used in North America but substantially adjusted to suit Australian requirements. It is expected that this system will be in operation by the end of 1 978. 
The question whether any amendments should be made to the Insurance Act to specify requirements as to the nature of the investments which an insurance company may or may not hold is under consideration as part of the current examination mentioned in (a) above. Pending the outcome of that examination, it would not be appropriate for me to comment on whether the relevant requirements in Australian trustee legislation and in certain US legislation would be appropriate for incorporation into the system of supervision of Australian insurance companies. 
14) As part of the process of reviewing the effectiveness of the arrangements for supervision of the insurance industry there are established procedures for examining any proposals that are put forward for new or amending legislation, including proposals from sources such as those referred to by the honourable member. At this time and given the circumstances outlined above I am not persuaded that the setting up of a Joint Select Committee along the lines referred to is necessary or appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Australian Statistician has advised that individual State details of forward estimates and the latest year's preliminary actual figures for receipts and outlays, contained in the totals for the six States in table 1 of the bulletin 'Public Authority Finance: Public Authority Estimates' (ABS Catalogue No. 5501.0), are not available for publication. When the Australian Bureau of Statistics assumed responsibility for compilation of these statistics, undertakings were given to the States that this information, which is supplied especially for the purpose of compiling the Australian aggregates, would be treated as confidential. 
The figures of actual receipts and outlays for earlier years contained in table 1 could be provided for each State separately if required. These figures are derived from a separate collection and analysis of the accounts of all government funds and authorities. Statistics of the receipts and outlays of State authorities (ie budget and non-budget sectors combined) are already published on an individual State basis in Public Authority Finance: State and Local Authorities' (ABS Catalogue No. 5504.0). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Statistics of rebates claimed and allowed in respect of overseas dependants are not compiled separately. 
Abuse of the allowances for dependants overseas has been given as one of the reasons for their abolition. Difficulties in making independent checks of the correctness of claims for those allowances were recognised in the Report of the review of post-arrival programs and services to migrants- the Galbally Report. Because of these difficulties it has been necessary to require taxpayers to furnish comprehensive information in support of their claims and this has led to disallowance of claims in a large percentage of cases. Figures are not available for the actual number of cases of misuse for each income year. However, a sampling conducted by the Taxation Office of claims made in the 1975-76 year for parents residing overseas revealed that approximately 60 per cent of the claims were either completely unjustified or were significantly in excess of the amount properly allowable. A later survey revealed a further increase in unsubstantiated claims in the 1976-77 year. 
It is recognised that many migrants feel a strong moral obligation to help financially family members left behind in their home country. However, as the Galbally Report on Migrant Services and Programs states, 'the present provisions enabling migrants to send money out of Australia are generous by international standards and are generally adequate to meet any family obligations a migrant in Australia may feel. We believe it is an unreasonable burden on the Australian taxpayer to allow tax rebates for some of these overseas payments. Many Australians, including migrants, believe these people should be the responsibility of the Government of the country in which they live and not of the Australian Government and the Review group concurs in this opinion*. Considering these factors, and the administrative costs and difficulties in checking claims and the abuses that have occurred, the Government decided on the course it has taken. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question decided by Taxation Board of Review No. 2 in Case K44 78  Australian Tax Cases  419 concerned the deduction to be allowed to a taxpayer for housing loan interest. The decision is not regarded as changing the operation of the law in relation to the concessional rebate allowable for the maintenance of a spouse. Where a woman has been divorced and remarried, her husband would be entitled to claim a concessional rebate in respect of her maintenance. Any separate net income derived by her or contributions to her maintenance made by someone other than her husband (such as maintenance or alimony payments received by her in her own right) would be taken into account in calculating the amount of concessional rebate to which her husband would be entitled. Payments received in respect of the maintenance of the children of a former marriage would not be taken into account for this purpose. 
No. 
3 ) No such action is necessary. 
Ethylene Glycol: Effects on Health (Question No. 2893) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As part of the government's investigation of the indirect tax system the Australian Taxation Office is at present conducting an inquiry into the practicability of a broadbased indirect tax collected at the retail level. For that purpose it has been having discussions with business groups. 
to (5) As the Asprey Taxation Review Committee recognised, achieving the appropriate balance in the overall structure of the tax system involves choices regarding fairness, efficiency and simplicity. Insofar as the personal income tax is levied on the basis of capacity to pay, it constitutes a fair and equitable form of tax. The Asprey Committee has recommended that there should be greater emphasis placed on indirect taxes; but there is no intention of a movement towards 'ultimately eliminating income tax '. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staff of the Foreign Investment Division of the Department of Treasury provide the executive services to the Foreign Investment Review Board.  Mr M.  A. Cranswick who was formerly with the Foreign Investment Division is on a staff exchange with Cadbury-Schweppes (Australia) Ltd for a period of 12 months. He commenced with that company on 15 May 1978. 
See answer to pan ( 1 ). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Trading Bank (CTB), a constituent bank of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation is a member bank in the Bankcard arrangements together with the private trading banks and the State banks. The CTB's influence on the interest rate charged by Bankcard is no more than that of others included in the arrangements. 
and (3) The Government's aim is to see reductions in interest rates achieved generally as conditions permit and on a responsible and sustainable basis. It would not be appropriate for me to comment on any particular area of interest rates. For general background information on Bankcard interest rates I refer you to the answer  Senator Carrick  gave on my behalf in response to a question from  Senator Lewis  (see  Hansard  of 24 August 1978, page 437). 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. . 
As part of the Government's investigation of the indirect tax system, the Taxation office is at present conducting an enquiry into the practicability of a broad-based indirect tax collected at the retail level. If, after receiving the Taxation office report, the Government should decide to take the matter further, a discussion paper would be prepared and released to the public It is envisaged that the discussion paper would, inter alia, seek to explain how various categories of business could be affected. Only after study of the community response to the discussion paper would the Government take a final decision whether or not to introduce a broad-based indirect tax and in what form. In the meantime, it would be entirely premature to speculate about ' alterations to businesses' that might be required. 
The effects of the introduction of a broad-based indirect tax on price levels would depend on the form of the tax and the amount of revenue to be raised. As to the cost to the private sector of administering a broad-based indirect tax, I merely note that there are already costs associated with the present sales tax. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Current interest in Australia in solar energy appliances appears to be directed to water heating and accordingly I note that the rates of sales tax applicable to solar waterheating panels are: 
Solar absorption panels of a kind installed as fixtures in houses- exempt; 
Other kinds of solar absorption panels, including those for industrial use or for heating domestic swimming pools- 1 5 per cent; 
c) Components for solar absorption panels- the rate applicable to the panels in question. 
I understand that legislation has been introduced in the United States which, inter alia, provides for a 'residential energy credit', enabling homeowners to be eligible for a tax credit for 'renewable energy source expenditure', which includes solar, wind and geothermal energy systems. 
The reference to a 'growing energy problem' is not clear. The sharp rise in the prices of some sources of energy in recent years has made governments and the community more conscious of the importance of energy to modern industrial economies. Views on whether there is a 'growing energy problem'- in most contexts to be read as 'shortage'very often depend on beliefs about the likely impact of future technological developments on the cost of exploiting energy resources and the likelihood of known reserves of energy being extended at present or future energy prices. 
In so far as Australia is concerned, although there are differences in the availability, domestically, of various energy resources we are well endowed overall with known resources and appear to have sound prospects of further discoveries in some important areas. 
That is not to suggest that the Government can be indifferent to the availability of future energy supplies and/or can responsibly countenance the inefficient use of energy. On the contrary, concern that our energy resources be used efficiently was an important factor in the Government's decision to increase, in the 1978-79 Budget, the price of domestically produced crude oil to import parity. 
Custody of Royal Commission on Espionage Documents  (Question No. 3038) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have seen the statements referred to. The experience of other countries with indirect taxes that can be levied on a broad base will be considered by the Government as part of its review of the Commonwealth indirect tax system. 
1 have not seen any official statistics on the number of additional employees needed to administer the value-added tax when it was introduced in the United Kingdom in 1973 but unofficial reports put the number much lower than 11,000. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have had discussions on indirect taxation and possible alternative arrangements with the Council of the Australian Retailers Association and have received submissions and comments from a broad cross-section of the Australian public. 
I pointed out to the Australian Retailers Association that the Government wished to have a sensible and open discussion on the appropriate balance between direct and indirect taxation and that some of the material issued by individual retailers and certain retailing associations misleadingly claimed that the Government had already taken a decision on this issue. 
I have made it clear to all concerned that the Government has taken no decision on whether or not a broad-based indirect tax should be introduced. If, after the Government has received the results of the Taxation Office inquiry into the practicability of a broad-based indirect tax collected at the retail level, it should be disposed to take the matter further, it will release a discussion paper on the whole issue. Only after public response and comment on that discussion paper has been received would any final decision be taken. 
As to the consequences for the growth of the bureaucracy, see my answer to Part (2) of Question No. 3 1 12. As to price effects, no doubt the introduction of the value-added tax would have led to some increase in prices at the time. 
The answer would presumably depend upon the total context within which any such tax were introduced. For example, if the additional revenue obtained from such a tax were to be wholly offset by reductions in personal income tax, some consumers would no doubt be better off and others no doubt worse off. 

 Mr Martin was one of the three representatives of the Australian Retailers Association that attended, along with representatives of other industry organisations, the meeting on 3 August 1978 with officials of the Taxation Office. The Commissioner of Taxation, who opened the discussions at that meeting, emphasised that the Government had asked the Taxation Office only to examine and report on the practical aspects of an indirect tax collected at the retail level. 
There is opposition in some quarters to the introduction of a value-added tax or any other form of broad-based indirect tax. There is support in other quarters. 
-The question of the Leader of the Opposition, following the ones that he asked yesterday, fails to take account of one fact: that interest rates in this country are, of course, determined in part by movements of interest rates overseas but are also determined in part, and in very important part, by domestic economic policy. It is simplistic in the extreme to invite this House to believe that just because the Government acknowledges that overseas interest rates are important to the level of our own interest rates, when overseas interest rates are so many percentage points higher than our own it follows that our rates will rise also. A major factor in the level of interest rates is the extent of success of domestic economic policies. The contribution of domestic economic policies followed by this Government over the past three years to the fall in interest rates which the Prime Minister enunciated yesterday ought not to be ignored. I think that the Leader of the Opposition is deliberately doing that. 
-The short answer to the question is no. I think that one of the more intriguing remarks made about the Government's economic policy in recent weeks came from the Leader of the Opposition. I hope that I do not do him an injustice; no doubt I will hear from him if he thinks I have. On an  AM  program recently the Leader of the Opposition expressed the view that there was no reason why there ought not to be better economic conditions in Australia. He believed that there were prospects for greater economic activity and for an uplift in employment in the Australian economy. Generally he saw better times for the Australian economy. Yet, at the same time, the honourable gentleman continues to advocate a significant change in the Government's economic policy. Let us not underestimate the significance of the difference that exists between what we have been doing over the past three years and the alternative strategy of the Opposition. Let us not be kidded into believing that the Opposition is proposing a fine tuning of the policies followed by this Government. What the Opposition enunciated during debate on the last Budget and what the Opposition has said since is a significant departure from the economic policies that we have followed over the past three years in a most consistent manner. We believe that those policies have contributed, in a major way, to the great number of optimistic signs about the Australian economy which are around at present. This is manifestly not the time to alter that strategy. We believe that the gains that the strategy has given us over the past three years will increase in the months ahead. 
I really do owe the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and all the Opposition economic spokesmen over the past few months a very sincere apology because I have misunderstood them. I have been under the impression that the objection that the Opposition had to the economic policy of this Government was not that it was inconsistent or that the Government had not explained what its economic policy was, but rather that our economic policy was too singleminded; that we were too obsessed with beating inflation; that we were too concerned about the size of the Budget deficit; that in any number of other ways the Government had exhibited single-minded inflexibility so far as economic management was concerned, but really what was required on behalf of the Government was a little more flexibility, a little more adjustment at the margin and all would be well. I have laboured under the misapprehension that that was the Opposition's real objection to the Government's economic policy over the past three years. But I now find from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition, concluded just a moment ago, that what he really is saying is that the Government's economic policy is inconsistent and he is calling for us to implement a consistent program for non-inflationary economic recovery. 
I put it to the House that whilst the Opposition has made and no doubt will continue to make a variety of charges about this Government's economic policy, the one that I think is least sustainable is the proposition that this Government, from the time it was elected, has not made very clear to the Australian people its principal economic goals, and furthermore that it has not stuck to those goals during the past three years. 
Indeed, it has been the willingness of this Government, the courage of this Government to stick to clearly stated economic goals, that has given to this country the signs of economic recovery, which even the Leader of the Opposition says, albeit with qualifications which I acknowledge, are now emerging in the Australian economy. 
So I reject completely the charge of inconsistency. I reject completely the charge of an unwillingness on the part of this Government to set down its economic policy in forthright and succinct terms understandable to the Australian people and to this Parliament. I also reject the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition in talking in this debate about inconsistency in economic management and inconsistency in economic statements, because his own credentials on the question of consistency in economic policy are not terribly good when they are closely examined. We all recall some of the statements that he made in the 1 975 Budget Speech when he was the Treasurer in the Whitlam Government. We all recall his saying just how much inflation contributed to the level of unemployment. We all recall how many statements were made by him and colleagues of his at that time pointing to the importance of wage restraint in getting the rate of inflation down. Yet we find him, as the Leader of the Opposition, advocating policies which are opposed to the sort of position that he was then taking. What consistency is there in that? 
The Leader of the Opposition over the past few days and in this debate has lamented the marginal rises in official interest rates which occurred about two weeks ago. He has said that they are bad; he has condemned them. He has sought to draw on remarks made by other people in condemnation of them. Yet he is the very same man who, having lamented those interest rate rises, redeclares his commitment to an alternative economic strategy which would not lead to marginal interest rate rises but would guarantee substantial interest rate increases, not only in official rates, but right across the board because the reality of the alternative economic strategy of the Leader of the Opposition, which was repeated and reaffirmed a moment before he sat down, was a very major increase in the size of the Commonwealth Budget deficit. He knows as well as everybody else in this House the impact of such an alternative economic strategy on interest rates at all levels in this country. 
We are not, as I said in Question Time, talking about a fine tuning of the existing economic policy of this Government; we are talking about two stark alternatives. We are talking about an economic strategy on the part of this Government which has put runs on the board, which has given us some gains. It has not solved all of our economic problems and nobody on this side of the House has asserted otherwise, but we are talking about an economic strategy which has unarguably reduced the level of inflation in this country, an economic strategy which has strengthened the fundamentals of the Australian economy, an economic strategy which has made Australian industry more competitive, an economic strategy which has returned confidence to both Australian business and Australian consumers. 
On the other hand we are talking about an alternative economic strategy which is not just a slight variation, although on occasions the Leader of the Opposition would pretend that what he is advocating is only a mild stimulation, a selective stimulation, a gentle shifting of emphasis in the Government's economic policy. He is not suggesting that at all. He is suggesting a fundamentally different approach and the tentative signs of economic recovery which are apparent and which he acknowledges would be lost very quickly if the alternative economic strategy that he advocates were applied. 
The Leader of the Opposition talks about our inconsistencies. Let me remind the House of another inconsistency of the Leader of the Opposition. I can remember up until about the middle of last year the Leader of the Opposition was consistently saying that the Australian dollar was overvalued. I think even in late 1977 there was a debate in this House about some statements made by the Leader of the Opposition about the value of the Australian dollar. Yet in the same interview to which I think he referred in his speech dealing with economic prospects in Australia he said that, if anything, the Australian dollar was overvalued. I would like the Leader of the Opposition to make up his mind. I would Uke the Leader of the Opposition to look to his own inconsistencies before he accuses this Government of inconsistency in economic management. 
What we need at present in looking at the Aus.tralian economy is a sense of perspective. We ought not to make rash claims about the size of the economic recovery that is occurring in this country. We do not claim that all the economic problems of Australia are behind us. We do not claim for a moment that it is possible to make rash and extravagant predictions about the sort of economic development that is going to occur in this country in the immediate future. What we do say is that the fundamentals of the Australian economy are stronger now than they have been for many years; that the basic causes of our economic difficulties of the past few years have started to be put right. Whatever the extent to which it may be defined to the last decimal point, nobody can argue that there has been a major reduction in the level of inflation. What is really important about inflation, what is really important about interest rates, is the trend over a period of time and the trend in both of those areas has been in a healthy downward direction. Nobody can dispute the achievements of this Government on inflation and the question of where the inflation result might come out over the course of a particular financial year within a range which is noticeably lower than what the rate of inflation was before is a matter of fine tuning and indeed, to a certain extent, nitpicking. It is the question of the trend; it is the question of the extent to which policies have been successful in bringing about changes. Everybody on this side of the House knows that in 1978 we had an inflation rate of 7.8 per cent on a commonly accepted measure and everybody knows and recalls the sorts of inflation rates that prevailed in this country in 1975 when this Government came into office. 
So let us preserve a sense of perspective; let us recognise that the fundamentals of the economy have been strengthened; that we have been made more competitive. Not only is there increasing evidence of the competitiveness internationally of our exporters but there are some tentative signs of greater competition amongst our import-competing industries. This is the result not of some accidental occurrence; it is the result of a growing sense in the Australian business community and this is important, that the policies being followed by this Government are the right policies and that if we persist with that strategy, if we maintain the thrust of those policies over the coming years, there are going to continue to be even more improvements. One does not have to look very far to find endorsements of the economic strategy of this Government by leading Australian businessmen, and I make no apology for quoting as authorities leading Australian businessmen. They are not the only authorities on the Australian economy, but I happen to believe that leading Australian businessmen do make a contribution  to  the Australian economic fabric. I happen to believe that the optimism of leading Australian businessmen is not only important to their own enterprises but also important to the potential job opportunities of the Australian work force. So when I refer to statements made by the  Chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or the Chief General Manager of the 
Bank of New South Wales or others I make no apology for doing so. 
If the honourable member for Cunningham had any real sense or understanding of the importance of a person who is the  chairman  of the largest company in Australia, he would realise that to denigrate in any way the success of that company denigrates the fortunes of literally hundreds of thousands of Australian people and any suggestion that the success of a company of that size is not the nation's success is a complete misunderstanding of some elementary facts of Australian economic life. 
So the signs are there. They are not totally unambiguous. I do not deny there are still areas of the Australian economy which we would like to see strengthened. We do not deny or run away from the social and economic consequences of the unemployment level. It is unsatisfactory; we all agree about that. We disagree about the methods that are going to be used to solve the problem. We do not believe that the prescription of the Opposition which was reaffirmed by the Leader of the Opposition today is, in the long term, going to solve the problem better than the prescription which is being followed at present. Examining both the history of the Australian economy or economic experience in comparable economies around the world, we do not believe that the type of policy advocated by the Leader of the Opposition would, at best, provide anything more than a short term reduction in the level of unemployment followed before very long by a revival of inflationary expectations and a consequent increase in the rate of unemployment. I invite anybody who doubts that proposition to examine the recent economic history of the United States and to look at the methods which have been used by governments around the world to cope with the problems of unemployment and inflation. I think that if we were to make an objective examination we would find that those countries which have maintained the defeat of inflation as their principal but not exclusive economic objective not only have produced much stronger economies but also are laying the basis of sustained improvement in the employment area. The unemployment figures in Australia are unsatisfactory and they are the cause of distress not only to those who are unemployed and their families but to all sections of the community. However, the level of our distress ought not to cloud our judgment as to the appropriate solution because if we allow that to occur we will make a mistake; we will delude the unemployed and, worst of all, we might build into the Australian economy the potential for even greater unemployment and lack of confidence than was the case some years ago. 
So, in claiming that there are very solid signs of recovery in the Australian economy, I can very quickly point to the strengthening in retail sales which occurred through 1978, the much greater competitiveness of Australian industry, the extremely gratifying improvement in the condition of the Australian rural sector which will make such an enormous contribution to Australia's exports this year and lead to an improvement in our balance of payments, and the greater disposition of Australian enterprises to invest. There is no better sign of confidence in the future than the willingness of Australian businesses, large and small, to take risks because the ultimate barometer of confidence in the business sector is the willingness of people to take risks. So, we do have undeniable signs of recovery, undeniable signs that the policies followed over the past three years in a consistent and coherent manner have produced results, and an undeniable determination on the part of this Government to stick to that strategy and to build on the gains that undoubtedly have been achieved in that period of time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to raise the level of the general exemption from pay-roll tax applicable to the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  and I announced the proposed increase on 16 November 1978. The exemption is to be raised from $60,000 to $66,000 per annum. The higher level will apply from 1 January 1979, thus providing an exemption for 1978-79 of $63,000 on a fullyear basis. The last increase applied from 1 July 1978 when the exemption was brought up to $60,000 in line with that allowed in New South Wales. New South Wales has since increased its exemption level to $66,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 1979. 
The maximum exemption allowable in monthly returns will increase from $5,000 to $5,500 and, in conformity with the existing rules for the phasing out of the maximum annual exemption, will be reduced at the rate of $2 for every $3 by which the wages for the month exceed $5,500. There will be no exemption once the monthly pay-roll reaches $13,750. As a general rule, the new exemption will apply first for the month in which this Bill receives the royal assent. End-of-year adjustments will ensure that the benefits are in all cases back-dated to 1 January 1979. For returns lodged on an annual basis the new exemption will apply from 1 January 1979. From the day on which the provisions of the Bill come into operation an employer paying wages of $ 1 , 2 50 or less a week will not be required to register for pay-roll tax purposes. Explanations of technical aspects of the 
Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
-The date of the interview, as I recollect it from the Leader of the Opposition 's question, was prior to the receipt of the latest figures from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. I think the sixmonthly figures cited by the Leader of the Opposition are broadly correct. Equally, it is true that that same batch of figures shows Australia's inflation rate, on a 12-monthly basis, as being below the average of OECD countries. But I think the important point to note in these matters, as I indicated in the debate on the economy yesterday, is the trend over a period of time. Of course, over the last three years Australia has gone from a very bad position when compared to other OECD countries to a much more favourable position. I think that is the point that the community is more likely to understand and appreciate. 
The announcement made by the Reserve Bank of Australia yesterday ought to be seen in proper context. With respect to the author of the article referred to by the honourable member, I believe he has given a misleading interpretation of both the context and the consequences of the announcement. As honourable members will know, the role of the Reserve Bank as a central bank is to act throughout the year on liquidity matters and, as far as possible, to even out liquidity. Everybody knows that at various times of the year there is more money in the system than at other times of the year. The Reserve Bank uses the statutory reserve deposits as an instrument to regulate the money flow. Honourable members ought to know that the increased call-up announced last night was made against the background of an extremely liquid position, a situation in which the liquid and government securities ratio of the banks was around 27 per cent against the required 18 per cent and that the SRD ratio was lifted to only 5.5 per cent, by comparison, for example, with an SRD ratio of some 10 per cent in May 1977. If people draw the sons of conclusions that were drawn in the article and the sorts of conclusions that apparently have been drawn by the honourable member for Gellibrand about the context of this announcement they completely misunderstand the situation. This is a liquidity management decision by the Reserve Bank. It is no more likely to affect the level of interest rates than other statutory reserve deposit calls made by the Reserve Bank at times when liquidity in the system has been very high. Unfortunately, in the last few weeks there have been some very silly statements made about interest rates. When I announced the terms of the marginal increases in the Commonwealth bond rate about two and a half weeks ago I explained the background of that situation. I also pointed out the significance of developments in interest rates overseas. I stressed the importance of domestic economic policy in regard to interest rates. I also made the comment that the rises in interest rates were marginal and that it was not my expectation- that was my view then and it remains my view- that those rises would affect the level of interest rates charged on housing loans. I think it is very interesting that the day after that announcement was made the view that I expressed was echoed by the Treasurer of New South Wales,  Mr Renshaw,  who was quoted as saying: 
Banks and building society interest rates were unlikely to be pushed up by the rise in Commonwealth securities. The rise the Government has secured is only fractional. 
That is what  Mr Renshaw,  I think making a responsible statement, said immediately after my announcement, but the intriguing thing is what another personality on the New South Wales political scene, the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  had to say two weeks later. A report on what he said states: 
A rise in home loan interest rates is on the cards,' the Premier  Mr Wran  said.  Mr Wran  said the Prime Minister now appeared to be confirming earlier indications of a rise in interest rates. 
What earlier indications? The earlier indication out of New South Wales from the Treasurer of New South Wales was a sober, responsible interpretation. He put in context the rise in the Commonwealth bond rate. He echoed the view that I had expressed. He was responding in a very responsible fashion. So the New South Wales Premier and Treasurer ought to make up their minds where they stand and what their view is.  Mr Wran  knows that he has powers and responsibilities in the interest rate area. Is he in disagreement with his Treasurer? Does he believe, as  Mr Renshaw  believes, as this Government believes, that the rise in Commonwealth bond rate was only a fractional one and it was not our expectation that it would affect the level of home loans? I think it is time that a number of spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party, both in New South Wales and in this House, put in perspective the development in interest rates over the past few weeks and stopped trying to create unnecessary apprehension in the Australian community about the level of interest rates which affect individuals in the community. 
As the honourable member for Murray would be aware, part of the really good news on the rural scene in Australia this year has been the spectacular wheat harvest and the consequent revisions upward over the past few months of the likely tonnages and, as a consequence, the size of the first advance. The Government well understands the enormous contribution which the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank has made to the Australian wheat industry over many years. Any suggestion that the rural credits facility will not remain an inegral part of the financing of advance payments and so forth for the Australian wheat industry is unfounded. Indeed so is any suggestion- and certainly such a suggestion has not come before me- of any shortening of the repayment period involved as regards rural credit advances. 
As the honourable gentleman knows, specific decisions made by governments about the size and so forth of the first advance take place not only against the background of the importance of the rural credits faculty to the wheat industry, but also against the background of monetary policy considerations. But I can assure the honourable gentleman that any suggestions of major changes and major revamping and any suggestion that the rural credits facility will not remain an integral part of the whole financing arrangements of the wheat industry are quite misplaced and misleading. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) and ( 1 1 ) As these matters concern the administration of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, the questions were referred to the Managing Director of the Corporation. He has provided detailed answers to the questions asked. However, I do not consider it appropriate to make public details of personal employment records. 
The transfer of a Manager to the relieving staff without promotion can occur for a number of reasons, including those reasons set out in Section 106(1) of the Commonwealth Banks Act. 
Yes, in those cases where staff members desire such an interview. 
Staff are not encouraged to speak about their feelings towards the Manager, but if they wish to initiate such discussion they are not precluded from doing so. 
Yes. 
Yes. However, as indicated above, I believe that as the Minister responsible for a department or statutory authority I should not reveal personal employment records associated with that department or authority. I have already provided full answers to all the above questions to  Mr Doolan  by letter dated 20 February 1978 and I shall provide the honourable member with a copy of that letter for his confidential information.  Mr Doolan  is free to use the information in the letter as he thinks fit. 
Last week in answer to a question from the honourable member for Murray I indicated that the finance facility of the Rural Credits Department would remain an integral part of the financing arrangements for the Australian wheat industry and that any suggestion that that situation was to be altered or that the repayments period was to be altered was quite false. I confirm what I said in that answer. I also say to the honourable gentleman that in examining from time to time the situation of the rural credits advance facility, the Government not only must take heavy cognisance of the integral role of that Rural Credits Department but also must have regard to general money supply considerations. That remains the situation. In due course the honourable gentleman will see a reflection of the Government's consideration against the background of those two criteria. 
-I think the figures that the honourable member gave are broadly correct so far as the number of new commencements are concerned. On that point I would remind the honourable member- and I do not think that the point can be emphasised too much- that as a barometer of activity in the building industry and in the housing sector the number of new commencements is of declining significance because of the very significant shift which for a combination of reasons has occurred in recent years between new dwelling commencements and additions in the purchase of existing dwellings. So, for honourable members to point to new commencements as being the sole or overwhelming barometer of activity in this area is to misunderstand the very real changes that have occurred in the industry. The honourable member did not acknowledge in his question that the lending figures for both the banks and the building societies in recent months have been at significantly higher levels than has been the case at any time, I think, over the past two years. One of the reasons for these levels is the measures announced in the last Budget regarding LGS arrangements for the banks. This was a deliberate decision by the Government to make it possible for the major lending institutions to make more money available for housing. There can be no suggestion that the amount of money available for housing from the major lending institutions at the present time is anything other than adequate. For the honourable member to suggest otherwise is to misunderstand the facts completely. 
Once again, the honourable gentleman raised, as members of the Opposition are wont to do at this time of the year, the spectre of tightening of credit. I have said before and I will say again to the House that the management of liquidity in the banking and financial system generally over the past three years has been such that it has made a significant contribution to reducing the inflation rate whilst, at the same time, it has underwritten sustained economic recovery. It is the sort of economic recovery which is daily becoming more apparent through the release not only of reliable economic indicators but also of a large number of significant business surveys. 
I would like to respond briefly to the remarks of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  on a subject which is not completely unknown to me. I would like to say to the honourable member that in effect his remarks contain three injunctions on the atypical procedure that the Government has been adopting in coping with the problem of prescribing individual tax avoidance schemes for the past nine or ten months. 
The first of those three injunctions was that announcements proscribing schemes should be explicit. I accept that. In fact, it has been my intention and, I hope the House would agree, it has been the practice during that time for such announcements to be explicit. The second injunction was that legislation giving effect to those announcements should be introduced with a minimum of delay. The situation is that all announcements made under this procedure prior to 30 June have been the subject of legislation that has either been passed by or introduced into this Parliament. Some announcements made in September last year which must be embodied in legislation remain and it is the intention of the Government to embody them in legislation to be introduced into the Parliament during this session. I think it is important that the legislation should be brought in as quickly as possible. It is desirable in the interests not only of avoiding any lack of deference to Parliament but also of avoiding confusion that that should be done. Thirdly, the honourable member suggested that if the Government at some stage had a change of heart on the substance of the announcement it ought to make that clear immediately. I accept that also as a reasonable condition attaching to this procedure. It would be my intention that that procedure should be followed. 
I conclude simply by saying that it is an atypical procedure but it is an atypical procedure which, in my very strong belief, is totally justified to deal with an atypical problem which, despite the very energetic action of the Government over the past 12 months, is still very much with us. I believe that it will remain with us until such time as it is possible for the Government effectively to rewrite a general anti-avoidance section into the income tax legislation. That is a matter which is receiving very active attention from the Government at the present time in accordance with an undertaking I gave this House during a debate last year. Until that is achieved, there is no practicable, equitable or fair alternative to the procedure which we are adopting. It is a procedure from which the Government does not intend to resile in any way. 

 -Mr Speaker - 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to add to an answer that I gave to the honourable member for Newcastle regarding the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development mission to Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answers to Question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and Question Nos 3065 and 3082  (Hansard,  20 February 1979,page 130). 
I am able to tell the honourable member for McMillan that an application has been made by manufacturers of certain cheeses for financing of their stocks. The matter is under consideration at present, and I understand that very shortly a recommendation will be submitted to my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, within whose portfolio the matter falls. 
If I can take the parts of the question in reverse order, I make it very plain to the honourable gentleman - 
-I make it very plain that the Government rejects completely any suggestion by the honourable member for Newcastle that the Government has interfered with the preparation of previous OECD reports on Australia. The fact of the matter is that the honourable member for Newcastle and his colleagues do not like the endorsements that the OECD has given to this Government's policies and so they are trying to raise the spectre of this Government having interfered with the preparation of those reports. That totally misleading suggestion ought to be nailed immediately and rejected as an absolutely baseless attack on the integrity of the OECD 's reporting. 
So far as the other part of the honourable gentleman's question is concerned, let me say to him that I understand- and I will check this further after Question Time- that under the present arrangements there is scope for consultation beyond the sources of official advice coming to the Government. I have no inprinciple objection to the idea of the OECD being exposed to the views of the trade union movement of Australia and, indeed, the views of spokesmen for the Opposition in these matters. But obviously there are considerations of time constraints and so forth. I will look further into that matter and let the honourable gentleman know what further can be done. 
-The speech made last week by the Prime Minister covered the whole range of the Government's economic policies in regard to the money supply. I cannot recall the precise words but they are similar to a number of speeches made on the subject recently which draw attention to the fact that one of the very successful areas of the economic policy of the present Government since it came to power three years ago has been that it has been able to get the rate of growth in the money supply in Australia under control. The honourable member's question gives me the opportunity to put into perspective statements and predictions about the rate of growth of the money supply which have been made by the Government. As the honourable member knows it has been the practice of this Government at the time of the last two or three Budgets to give an indication of the growth in the money supply which it thinks might be appropriate to activity in the economy over the period covered by the Budget. 
It is true, according to figures on the money supply which have been released by the Reserve Bank, that to the end of January the increase is running at an annual rate of 1 1 per cent. There is no argument about that. That is a simple statistical fact. The honourable member also knows that there are seasonal fluctuations in the rate of growth of the money supply. Last year people were saying that it would go well under the projection. This year people are saying that it will go well over the projection. The point that has to Be made is that the figure given at Budget time is not a firm, absolute commitment. 
It is likely that the money supply outcome for the current financial year will be above the upper end of the range in the Budget. But the important aspect is whether that of itself is an unfortunate occurrence and whether that of itself is inappropriate to economic conditions as they exist now. The projection is made on the basis of perceptions at Budget time. The important point is what the thrust of money supply policy is. The Government has consistently followed a money supply policy since coming to government to keep it at such a level that helps to bring down inflation whilst at the same time underwriting economic recovery. Given the developments in the economy since the time of the Budget, I would regard a money supply outcome which might happen to be above the upper end of the 6 per cent to 8 per cent range as entirely appropriate in achieving those two objectives. It is, of course, a question of magnitude. I think that it is understood that one makes a prediction at Budget time and, given developments since, that prediction ought not be seen as an absolute commitment. 
The honourable member's question is a total non sequitur. I would like to make it plain that the Government welcomes the profitability performance of major Australian companies. I have never been able to understand why any member on the other side of the House is concerned about the large profitability of a company such as Broken Hill Pty Cp. Ltd. If one goes beneath the surface one sees that the profitability of BHP is of direct concern to literally hundreds of thousands of ordinary Australian people because the shareholding in a company of that size does not involve just large shareholdings of individuals but, through superannuation and pension funds, the fortunes and profitability of that company benefit ordinary Australian people. So to the extent that the Leader of the Opposition and his followers denigrate that sort of performance they are indifferent to the interests of those ordinary Australian people. 
The Government's policy is not to promote booming unemployment in order to have booming profitability in Australian businesses. We have created economic circumstances in which profitability is once again possible in the Australian community. It is something we welcome. It lies at the basis of sustained economic recovery. It is something which we will continue to encourage. 
in reply- I always enjoy a debate on this subject. I always enjoy listening to the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  and I always enjoy hearing the remarks of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who really exhibits all the signs of somebody trying to get in on an act about which his own Government when in office did precious little. I welcome the support of the Opposition for this measure. I shall respond in broad terms to the points that have been raised. I invite any honourable members who doubt that the Government is continuing in its campaign against blatant tax avoidance to come back after the suspension of the sitting because I have another announcement to make on the subject which they might be interested to hear. There is one thing of a semipersonal character that I would like to say in this debate. I really think it is appalling on the part of the Opposition constantly to make specific allegations of tax avoidance against honourable members on this side of the House. I think it is a state of affairs that does not do credit to the importance of the matter which is under discussion. I can say unequivocally to the Opposition and to all honourable members in this House that the campaign that has been undertaken by this Government against tax avoidance has the very strong support of the entire Cabinet and indeed of the overwhelming majority of my own parliamentary colleagues. 
It is unanimous. I make it very clear that there is unanimous support for the campaign so far as the Government is concerned. 
I concede that in the course of a debate on a Bill last year some of my colleagues who were not in the Ministry voted against a particular provision. I make that clear. There is no secret about that. At least within our party we are able to have a rational debate on matters of principle without affecting the overall result. 
I shall reply to the specific points that have been raised. Naturally, the Opposition raised the question of section 260 of the Act. Of course, if an effective section 260 could be put into the Act that would make a very great change to the cam- .paign against tax avoidance. It is the expressed intention of the Government- I have indicated this on numerous occasions- that if possible section 260 should be re-written. The honourable member for Gellibrand knows as well as everybody else in this House that we cannot rewrite section 260 overnight and that the Government has been engaged internally for some time in examining the possibility of effectively rewriting section 260. That work is proceeding and if a satisfactory result can be produced a proposal for action will come before the Government and be considered. Let me make it clear that there is no back tracking on the part of the Government in looking at the possibility of rewriting section 260. The honourable member knows from his study of the interpretations of the existing section 260 by the High Court of Australia that that is no easy matter. He said that there should be greater use of retrospective legislation. The Government has a view on that subject which is different from the view of the Opposition. It does generally support the view that retrospective legislation should not be used. There are exceptions. They have been alluded to in previous debates in this House and I will not weary the House by recapitulating them. 
The honourable member argues in favour of one superficially attractive proposition. That is that the advertising of tax avoidance schemes should be banned. Whilst I can understand some people feeling that way I think it raises a conceptual difficulty, one that I certainly have and which I am sure my colleagues on this side of the House have. Irrespective of the distaste which some people have for the advertising of tax avoidance schemes it is a fairly serious step for any government to prohibit the advertising of something which is not per se illegal. I know that there are always exceptions to those sorts of rules, but on balance I could not support the approach of banning the advertising of tax avoidance services, however much I might be unhappy with the services that are being provided. In the course of this debate it has been suggested that the amending legislation goes far beyond its intentions. I understand that one or two of my own colleagues raised a couple of problems with the legislation. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  suggested that a mining company could lose deductions for development expenditure, for example Sim where it has an agreement with an associate to market the mine concentrate for a fee of $100- less than an arm's length fee. The comment I make on that suggestion is that for the legislation directed against prepayment schemes- that is the legislation before the House- to apply, the first requirement is that the expenditure must be incurred as part of a tax avoidance arrangement. From the example given there is no suggestion that there is a tax avoidance purpose behind the development expenditure of $lm by the mining comany. I say further that the second requirement of the legislation is that there must be a prepayment, that is, that the expenditure must be greater than might, in the absence of tax avoidance, reasonably be expected to be incurred at the time when it was incurred. Again, there is no suggestion that the $ 1 m would not have been expended when in fact it is expended. In other words there is no suggestion that it is a prepayment. Thirdly, there is a requirement in the legislation that the property is acquired by the taxpayer or an associate as part of the tax avoidance arrangement for an amount that is less than might reasonably have been expected to be payable but for, in the given case, the amount spent on development. There is no suggestion that the non-arm's length marketing fee is connected in any way with the quantum of expenditure on development. In any event, neither the taxpayer nor the associate requires ownership of that property by payment of the marketing fee. 
I understand also that a document which the honourable member for Banks euphemistically said had been 'dropped from a truck' was referred to during the debate. My understanding is that that particular document was an internal paper of the Australian Taxation Office addressed by an officer to his supervisor and had not been directed to the Government. Of the eight matters mentioned, some were alternatives, some had been attended to in one way or another and others were not entirely practical solutions having regard to the complexities of the subjects to which they were related. I think the point has to be made that not every trust is set up for tax avoidance purposes. I think the point also has to be made that the changes made in the Budget of my immediate predecessor to the taxation of trusts reduced significantly some of the tax advantages of arrangements through trusts, but it is generally not correct to say that all trusts are set up for tax avoidance purposes. The other point that I make specifically in reply to the honourable member for Banks is that I have given a standing request to the Commissioner of Taxation to bring to my attention as soon as possible details of the nature of any tax avoidance scheme that comes to his notice. 
I think it is correct for me to say that in the time I have occupied this position most tax avoidance proposals that have come before me have been implemented. Some are still in the pipeline; others are under consideration. I know that the honourable member for Gellibrand is entitled to say that the Government did not proceed with the foreign tax credit system. I acknowledge that. One reason for bringing that proposal forward in the first place was related to tax avoidance, but the greater reason for bringing it forward was to effect an improvement in the taxation system as the Government then saw it. The Government subsequently decided, I think quite validly, that many broader economic and commercial considerations suggested that we ought to leave the system as it is. To suggest that there is any reluctance on my part or on the part of the Government to act when evidence of tax avoidance schemes is produced is to misunderstand completely the nature of the instructions which the Commissioner of Taxation has received. It is the continuing intention of this Government to act against tax avoidance practices as soon as sufficient evidence is produced to enable announcements to be made and legislation to be introduced. 
The Government does take, as I acknowledge members of the Opposition do, a very strong view of the level of tax avoidance which has been practised in this country over recent years. It is not a case, as the honourable member for Banks suggested, of concentrating on the little man. By the very nature of the schemes involved and by the very nature pf the dimensions of income involved, the effectiveness of the legislation has covered people on very large incomes. The very simple principle involved is that tax avoidance is a threat to the overall equity of the tax system. It is an affront not only to people on low incomes who have no capacity and less incentive to avoid taxation but also to many hundreds of thousands of citizens in Australia on large incomes who have the incentive, the opportunity and the facilities to engage in these types of schemes but quite deliberately choose not to engage in them. 
I can give the House the assurance that the legislation now before it will in due course be followed by further legislation proscribing additional tax avoidance schemes. I hope that it will be possible to re-write section 26(5 of the Act effectively but, for the reasons I have mentioned, it does pose a very significant number of difficulties. I thank those who have participated in the debate and I thank the Opposition for its support of this legislation. I commend it to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-by leave- I wish to inform the House of a further step in the Government's ongoing program of curbing tax avoidance practices. In doing so, I emphasise to the Parliament the determination of this Government to maintain maximum pressure against such practices. In my statement of 24 September 1978, I foreshadowed amendments to the income tax law to deny deductions for specified types of expenditure incurred as part of tax avoidance schemes or arrangements that involve the effective recoupment of the expenditure so that no real deductible loss or outgoing is suffered by the taxpayer. In addition to saying that the amendments specifically foreshadowed in my statement of 24 September were to apply from that date where the relevant expenditure is incurred in discharging a mortgage, in the acquisition of trading stock or by way of interest or rent, I gave a clear warning to tax avoidance promoters that the proposed amendments would be made to apply, also with effect from 24 September, to any further schemes exhibiting similar recoupment features. It has now come to the attention of the Government that, despite this warning, expenditure recoupment schemes claimed to produce deductions for expenditure in borrowing money to be used to produce assessable income are being marketed. These schemes exploit the provisions of section 67 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which authorises deductions for procuration fees or other expenditures incurred by a taxpayer in borrowing money used for the purpose of producing assessable income. Stated broadly, deductions are spread over the period of the loan, or over 5 years, whichever is the lesser. 
By way of example of the complicated schemes developed to exploit this special provision, I mention a scheme under which a tax avoidance promoter undertakes, for a fee of 1 5 per cent of the tax deduction sought, to arrange a loan of $185,000 for a taxpayer for a period of 6 months for a purported 'procuration fee' of $100,000. The loan of $185,000 is made from a trust controlled by the promoter. It is this fee of $100,000, $85,000 of which is effectively recouped to the taxpayer that is claimed to be a deductible expense in terms of section 67 of the Act. The $185,000 borrowed is in turn invested by the taxpayer in a second trust which on-lends the money to a company controlled by the first trust. The first trust then lends the taxpayer a further $185,000 for a 30-year term and the initial loan is repaid out of this. The effect of the circular loans and repayments effected by round-robins' of cheques is that the $185,000 liability of the taxpayer to the first trust is matched by the liability of the company controlled by that trust to the second trust which is in turn liable to the taxpayer for that amount. The result of these complex arrangements is that it is possible for the liabilities in respect of each loan to be forgiven at a future date without adverse consequences for any of the parties. Because the procuration fee of $100,000 is claimed to be payable in respect of the original 6-month loan, the taxpayer claims that the fee is fully deductible in one year. 
The arrangements are made in such a way that the bulk of the procuration fee is recouped by the taxpayer by the provision of a loan that is never intended to be repaid. This is achieved by the first trust lending to the taxpayer, in addition to the other loans, $85,000 interest free and nominally repayable at call. However, because the tax avoidance promoter invests the $ 100,000 procuration fee with that trust in the form of redeemable units that the trust subsequently redeems for $15,000, the $85,000 loan is effectively recouped by the trust with the result that it is then able to forgive the taxpayer's liability in respect of the loan without any effective loss to itself. The taxpayer thus claims to be entitled to a deduction for income tax purposes in respect of a $100,000 procuration fee. Of that amount he effectively outlays only $15,000, and that represents the fee payable to the tax avoidance promoter. The amendments dealing with recoupment schemes foreshadowed in my statement of 24 September are to be made applicable to deductions claimed in respect of borrowing expenses under these tax avoiding arrangements. The Government is thereby giving substance to the clear warning that had been extended to tax avoidance promoters against implementing substitute recoupment schemes. 
The amendments will mean that a deduction will not be available for expenditure incurred after 24 September 1978 in respect of the borrowing of money where that expenditure is incurred as part of a tax avoidance scheme or arrangement that involves the receipt by a taxpayer, or an associate, of a compensating benefit the value of which, when added to the tax benefit or advantage, effectively recoups the taxpayer for the expenditure so that no real deductible loss or outgoing is suffered. Legislation to give effect to the Government's latest proposals will be introduced this session. The action taken by the Government in the present case should spell out in the clearest possible terms the Government's resolve to prevent the marketing of any further 'expenditure recoupment' schemes. Should this not be the result of this further announcement, the Government will not hesitate to act again to amend the income tax law to counter any other schemes exhibiting similar features. Any further necessary amendments would, as with the amendments in the present case, and in accordance with my earlier warning, apply to losses or outgoings incurred after 24 September 1978.I commend the statement to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I would refer you to parts (1) and (2) of the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2903 (Weekly  Hansard,  24 November 1978, page 3577). 
(a) 1976-77-One; 1977-78-None; 1978-79-None. 
1976-77-None; 1977-78-With the Prime Minister's approval one official of my department travelled on a Concorde aircraft with the Prime Minister from New York to London on7 June 1978; 1978-79-None. 
1976-77-One; 1977-78-Not applicable; 1978-79-Not applicable. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The honourable member is presumably advocating such incentives to encourage the use of solar energy devices and so conserve other fuels. As to that, I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 3037 by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 127). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question incorrectly implies that the issue of an Australian gold coin was announced in April 1 978. At that time I indicated that the Government was investigating the technical and legal aspects of the possible issue of a gold coin, and that any action on this matter would depend on a number of factors including the nature of any legislation that might have to be introduced to give effect to any Government decision. The matter is currently under active consideration and I shall be making an announcement as soon as I am in a position to do so. 
In opening the debate for the Government I think it is worth while reminding the House of the thinking of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who led for the Opposition. The honourable member is the Labor Party spokesman who, at Labor's conference of economists in Brisbane in 1978, said: 
If Labor does not gain office next election - 
And I can understand his thinking along those lines- then by 1983, when we could next hope to gain office, we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of taxation to enable us to do so. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand was doing two things on that occasion. Firstly, the honourable member was acknowledging the transfer of resources from the public sector to the private sector under the Fraser Government which, of course, is correct. Secondly, he was acknowledging that in order to effect a re-transfer of those resources a future Labor government would do as the Whitlam Government did between 1972 and 1975 and allow significant increases in the overall burden of taxation paid by the Australian community. That is the quality of the economic and taxation thinking of the honourable member for Gellibrand who proposed the discussion of this matter of public importance on behalf of the Opposition. We ought to keep that fact in mind as this debate proceeds. This debate is an attack upon the equity of the taxation policies followed by the Fraser Government. The honourable member for Gellibrand in his speech accused us of favouring the rich and penalising the poor. He accused us of distorting the taxation system in favour of the more well off in the community and against the interests of the less well off. 
In the brief time available I will recapitulate for the benefit of the House the record of this Government in the area of taxation. The Government's taxation policy contains many significant elements. One of the most significant was the introduction of tax indexation. It was introduced in the first year of the Fraser Government notwithstanding that the election commitment in 1975 was to introduce tax indexation during the lifetime of the first Parliament. The honourable member for Gellibrand did not acknowledge that we had accelerated the implementation of tax indexation in 1976. The great virtue of tax indexation is that it forces governments to be more direct and honest about changes in the taxation system. It forces governments to legislate openly for increases in taxation as well as to legislate openly for decreases in taxation which, I think all members of the House would agree, all governments like to be able to do from time to time. The great virtue of tax indexation is that it forces governments to be more open about what they are doing with the taxation system. No longer under tax indexation will a leader of a political party in Australia be able to say what the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  said at Blacktown in 1972. These words ought to be recalled whenever there is debate about the comparative equity of the taxation policies of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party. In that memorable speech  Mr Whitlam  said: 
The huge and automatic increase in Commonwealth revenue ensures that rates of taxation need not be increased at any level to implement a Labor Government 's program. 
He uttered those words after he had unveiled an extravaganza of commitments from the Labor Opposition. He knew well that the impact of the high inflation that that program would unleash on the progressive taxation scale would, without the need for the Government to admit that it was increasing taxation, produce a huge and automatic increase in taxation collections. The only way that that can be stopped is to index the taxation system. The indexation of the taxation system prevents the stealth of inflation on a progressive taxation system. If the honourable member for Gellibrand or the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  believed in the fairness of the tax system for the ordinary wage earner- that 90 per cent of the Australian community who pay 3 3 tec in the dollar taxation- they would realise the equity, the justice and the responsibility of tax indexation. That was the first major reform of this Government. 
In 1977 we greatly simplified the progressive taxation scale. We removed the seven steps and replaced them with three steps. One of the great benefits of that has occurred in the area of overtime work. How often did members on both sides of the House hear the complaint that a man on average weekly earnings who was able to work some overtime was disinclined to do so because of the higher tax bracket into which he would be pushed when he earned only a modest additional amount through overtime? The introduction of the standard rate system in 1977 means that a person can move from the average weekly earnings to about $16,800 a year without entering a higher tax bracket. That is a significant reform. It is a significant equity not for the wealthy or the affluent but for the average wage earner of Australia. It ought to be borne in mind. 
We have reduced the overall burden of personal tax notwithstanding the increase in the last Budget. No one can deny that. The honourable member for Gellibrand did not deny it; the 
Leader of the Opposition has not denied it. The net cost to revenue of half indexation and the rate scale reforms, even taking into account the 1  Vi  per cent surcharge, will still be about $700m in the current financial year. Some $3, 000m more would have been collected in 1 978-79 if the scales we inherited in 1975 had been left unchanged. I know that the honourable member for Gellibrand might think that that is not a fair thing to say because he would claim that if Labor had stayed in office it would have introduced tax indexation, lowered the tax scales and made the thing more equitable. That is what he said the last time we debated the matter. Perhaps he has a different riposte. I can only make assumptions about the Labor policy according to what Labor people say when in government and according to legislation initiated when Labor is in government. The truth of the matter is that if those Hayden scales had stayed in place through the years that we have been in government we would be collecting $3,000m more in this current financial year. That is a sizable leak in anybody's language. Indeed the great bulk of that would not have been paid by that privileged section of the community- the high income earners about whom the honourable member for Gellibrand waxed so fervently- but would have been paid by the average wage earners of Australia. 
We have given significant concessions to the business community of Australia. We make no apology for that. We happen to believe that the profitability of the private sector is to the benefit of the entire Australian community. The business community of Australia had been brought to its knees by the end of 1975. Both large and small businesses needed assistance and incentives. We were prepared to give them. For my part, I make no apology for such things as the investment allowance. We have encouraged exploration of energy resources. I believe that more than ever the pricing policies that this Government has adopted with respect to crude oil have been demonstrated to be correct. They have encouraged a greater sense of conservation and exploration. They could well be emulated in other parts of the world. 
The fact is that an individual on average weekly earnings pays $9 a week less than he would have paid under the Hayden scales in 1975. Personal tax collections this financial year will experience, for the first time in 10 years, a fall in real terms. There will actually be a reduction of about .3 per cent in the total volume of personal tax collections in 1978-79. 1 remind the House that that is the first occasion over the last 10 years that a fall of that kind has occurred. We should contrast it with the increase that occurred on one occasion of over 20 per cent in personal tax collections during the lifetime of the Whitlam Government. That surely is proof positive of the discipline which is imposed on governments through tax indexation and the other measures that we have introduced. The abolition of death and gift duties, taxes which wreaked considerable hardship on significant sections of the Australian rural community and the small business sector, shows that this Government has not only a defensible taxation record but also a record which has improved the equity of the tax system. 
Nowhere is the Labor Party on weaker ground than when it talks about tax avoidance. This is its real Achilles heel. One would have thought that a party which is so concerned about high income earners, that upper bracket of income earners, when in government would have done something about the level of tax avoidance in the community. Perhaps we can refer again to that memorable tome, the Blacktown address of 1 972, and see what the then Leader of the Opposition had to say on the subject of tax avoidance. He said: 
The rates for which the wealthier sections of the community including companies are liable are already high enough. 
That is an interesting contrast with what the honourable member for Gellibrand is saying now. I will pass over that because it is not central to the point that I am about to make. The Leader of the Opposition continued: 
The loss which the revenue suffers at this level is not because taxes are too low but because tax avoidance is too easy. 
He then went on to say: 
A Labor Government will close the loopholes. To do this we will set up a permanent expert committee on taxation to expose the loopholes as fast as lawyers and accountants discover them. 
We all know how many loopholes were closed by the Whitlam Government between 1972 and 1975. We all know about the expert committee that was set up. We all know how serious successive Labor Treasurers between 1972 and 1975 were about the widespread tax avoidance, which is an affront to the average wage earner in the Australian community and which ought to be resented by people on low incomes who have no opportunity and no incentive to engage in that sort of activity. That is why this Government has done something about tax avoidance. The Australian Labor Party is embarrassed by our activity in that area and it is now engaged in some kind of eleventh hour repentance on that subject. On account of its own inactivity, it is trying to get in on the bandwagon and is urging the Government to do further things. The Labor Party knows our position on tax avoidance. We have acted and we will continue to act. So far as clamping down on blatant tax avoidance is concerned, no areas are quarantined by this Government. That has been made clear in the past by both me and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Labor Party is extremely vulnerable in the area of tax avoidance. It has attempted to discredit the performance of this Government over the past three years in the area of taxation. We have committed ourselves to a program of reforming the taxation system. We have not only reduced taxation; we have restructured the system. 
Our taxation system is a complicated system. It still contains numerous inequities and I do not for a moment suggest that the job is anywhere near finished. But there has to be a sense of realism. Indeed, the Leader of the Opposition seems to lack some realism in some of the alternative proposals he has put. One of the proposals that intrigues me a great deal was outlined in his National Press Club speech. In that proposal- I think it is proposal number 5 but it might be number. 4- he said that he would restructure the taxation scale for the top 2 per cent of income earners. That is a very interesting proposition. I would like to know how he intends to do that restructuring. If he were to restore the maximum marginal rate to the 65 per cent level of his last Budget, the additional revenue resulting from that would be no more than $50m. If he were to push that marginal rate up to an unprecedented level of 70 per cent, a little more than $ 100m would be raised. Yet in that same speech the Leader of the Opposition was talking about raising an additional $ 1,000m. Just what does he have in mind? 
-Not just from that, I appreciate that. But we would have a few problems with the next year effects of those other four or five measures. I am questioning the arithmetic of those five propositions in respect of a 1979-80 Budget. The proposal is unspecific. The proposal is vague. It is silent as to the level and as to the quantum. Indeed, it is the sort of proposal that has not been thoroughly thought out. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In the period from 8 April 1976, the date on which the Foreign Investment Review Board was established, to 31 December 1978, 3,359 foreign investment proposals were lodged with the Foreign Investment Review Board for examination under the Foreign Takeovers Act and the Government's foreign investment policy. Details of the decisions taken by the Government on those proposals and of the proposals that were either withdrawn or did not require approval under the Act or policy are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A count is not made of form 'S' returns specifically. Statistics are, however, available for returns lodged by salary and wage earners with income of $400 or less from investments. Statistics for the last five years are set out below. Only returns lodged by 30 June following the close of the relevant year of income are included. 
-One of the things that have characterised the Opposition's involvement in debates on tax avoidance matters is a total misunderstanding of any technical fundamentals as far as the operation of the tax laws are concerned. I have already made it clear and the Prime Minister has already made it clear that no area of taxation activity is quarantined from the Government's campaign against blatant tax avoidance. To the extent that any section of tax activity represents blatant tax avoidance, under whatever description it may happen to come, it will be the subject of Government action, if appropriate circumstances arise. 
An answer shall be relevant to the question. 
I asked the Treasurer a simple question. It was in these terms: Will he introduce legislation to prevent family trusts from being used as a tax avoidance measure through income splitting? I asked for a specific answer. 
-Perhaps I should put the Leader of the Opposition right on one thing from the outset. The Loan Council meeting to be held on 2 April has not been called to discuss interest rates. A decision to call that Loan Council meeting was agreed at the time when the rates for the February conversion loan were set between the State Premiers and myself back in February. There have been a number of incorrect suggestions in the Press in the past few days to the effect that that meeting has been called to talk about interest rates and they have been picked up by the Leader of the Opposition. The meeting has been called to talk about Loan Council procedures. It has been called to talk about a number of proposals so far as the marketing of securities generally is concerned, as I alluded to in my Press statement on the February conversion loan. The Leader of the Opposition knows quite well that the rates that were set for the February conversion loan were the rates indicated as being appropriate by the market at that time. 
The Leader of the Opposition asked for guarantees from the Government about the movement of interest rates. I have told him already that no government has a capacity to guarantee movements in interest rates. 
-The Prime Minister did not guarantee movements in interest rates. The Prime Minister indicated the likelihood of a movement down, given certain eventualities with the economy. The only thing that this Government can guarantee in the interest rate area, and will guarantee in the interest rate area, is that it will continue to follow policies which are designed to create the conditions for further reductions in interest rates. That is a guarantee that we are happy to give. But to ask us to guarantee the future level of interest rates is an irresponsible question and, in fact, is quite unhelpful to the cause of lower interest rates in Australia. 
Indeed, I have seen such reports- in fact I have read in full the speech that the Leader of the Opposition gave to the National Press Club last week. The taxation proposals of the Leader of the Opposition were more remarkable not for what they said but for what they did not say. Perhaps I could take a couple of those proposals. Take the fondness of the Leader of the Opposition for a capital gains tax. He said that he will introduce a capital gains tax and that there will be a threshold of $200,000 under which people will be free from capital gains tax. He referred to this tax in the context of a package of proposals which presumably would raise $ 1,000m of extra revenue in the financial year 1979-80. He did not say how much of that $ 1,000m was attributable to a capital gains tax. So one has to go back a little further into what the Leader of the Opposition has said to find out how much would be involved. I do read his speeches on occasions. Those speeches are a mine of very interesting information and contradictions. If one goes back to his post-Budget speech of September of last year one finds that he said that a Labor government would raise $300m from a capital gains tax. The only way in which one can raise $300m from a capital gains tax in the 1 979-80 financial year is, first, to make the tax retrospective- in other words, to tax gains that have accrued already. Secondly, if one is to have a threshold of $200,000, in order to raise $300m one would have to apply the tax to people in receipt of over $200,000 at an absolutely confiscatory rate. This proposal is very interesting when one looks below the surface. 
The Leader of the Opposition talks about restructuring the taxation scales for the top 2 per cent of income earners. He said that he would do that and, as I understand it, in his post-Budget speech he said that he would cream off $200m from that exercise. My understanding is that in the current financial year the top 2 per cent of income earners are those on incomes of $27,000 or more. If the Leader of the Opposition is to claw back $200m from that section of the community and at the same time to keep in place the standard rate scale and the intermediate rate scale- in other words, preserve the benefits of our tax reforms for low income earners, which he has said he believes in preserving- the only way that he can get $200m from the top 2 per cent of income earners in this country is to lift the marginal rate of tax to 80 per cent. This is not bad stuff! This is good old, soak-the-rich, Labor dogma of the old school and it is about time that the Australian community really understood what this is about. 
He talks blithely about a resource tax. The only way one can introduce a resource tax and get a revenue gain for the coming financial year is to introduce a new tax retrospectively. That would be great for business confidence! That would be great for overseas perceptions of the government of this country! When one goes through the taxation proposals of the Leader of the Opposition bit by bit one sees that they are ill thought out and based on outmoded Labor Party dogma. A former Leader of the Opposition and former Labor Prime Minister of this country said by implication in 1972 that that dogma was outdated when he said in his Blacktown speech, which also is a mine of information about taxation matters, that we do not need to increase the rates for people in the high income brackets because those rates are already high enough. He was then speaking of a marginal tax rate of 65 per cent, which this Government has reduced to 6 1  lA  per cent. So when one examines the alternative tax proposals of the Opposition one sees that they are ill thought out, they are based on outmoded dogma and they demonstrate that, far from the Leader of the Opposition having come clean on how he would finance his alternative tax proposals, he has contrived to keep us very much in the dark. 
Yes. 
In his attempt to put into context what he had said the Leader of the Opposition made three mistakes. Firstly, he confirmed the fact that the resources tax would be introduced retrospectively. 
-The point I made, and on which the Leader of the Opposition did mislead the House, was not the question of whether or not a resources tax should be introduced. Opposition policy on that is clear; Government policy is clear. That is not the argument. The argument is the method by which $ 150m should be raised for next year. The only way that you can do that is to introduce it retrospectively. 
I am sorry. So far as the top two per cent of income earners is concerned, the point I made, and the point I make again, is very simply this: If you are to leave - 
Having obtained leave from the Chair, a Member may explain matters of a personal nature, although there be no question before the House; but such matters may not be debated. 
I ask you to rule that the Treasurer is debating the question and is not in any way explaining matters which are allegedly of a personal nature to him and by which he has been offended. 
-The point I made, and the point I make again in regard to the area of misrepresentation by the Leader of the Opposition, is this: If you are to keep the standard and intermediate rate scales the same, and surely the Leader of the Opposition is not saying that he is going to increase the standard and the intermediate rate scales, in order to obtain the $200m out of the top two per cent of income earners you have to increase the marginal rate to a much higher figure than it was when the standard rate scale system was introduced. Not only did the standard rate scale system reduce the marginal rate; it also restructured the minimum and intermediate rates. That is the point the Leader of the Opposition has missed completely. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government's foreign investment policy decision in respect of the takeover of Bushells Investments Ltd was announced in my press statement of 21 November 1978. 1 have arranged for a copy to be supplied to the honourable member. 
Yes. As noted in my press statement, the Government was aware of interest in Bushells by other companies. Information about this interest was made available to the Government in confidence and it would not therefore be appropriate for me to reveal the identity of the companies concerned. 
-The House will be aware of what was said in the Budget Speech. As best I can recall it, the Speech stated that, based on official advice available to the Government at the time, we expected that inflation would be down around an annual rate of 5 per cent by the middle of 1979. I and other Ministers have already indicated that, due to things that have happened since the Budget- 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Honourable gentlemen may well interject on that point, but the fact of the matter is that there have been developments which render that target, on the advice available to me at the present time, something that may not be achieved. The House will be aware of the adverse national wage case decision, an adverse result that was aided greatly by the attitude taken by Labor governments before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The target also has been affected by adverse developments so far as food prices are concerned. I do not intend to maintain before this House or before the Australian community anything other than an objective assessment of the state of the Australian economy at the present time. There is abundant evidence of strong and sustained economic recovery in the Australian community. Many of the economic indicators that are available now disprove so much of what was said by the Opposition at the time of the Budget. I can assure the honourable member for Burke and this House that the Government will continue to follow policies designed to exert the maximum downward pressure on inflation. I do not propose to give this House, the honourable member for Burke, or anybody else, quantitative guarantees to the last decimal point on what an inflation rate will be. I have no intention of doing that. I can assure the honourable gentleman that unlike our political opponents this government will follow policies that exert the maximum downward pressure on inflation. If members of the Opposition really want to unleash inflationary forces in this country, they ought to adopt the alternative strategy urged by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I have seen the reports of that release from the OECD. I think the figures quoted by the honourable member for Lalor are substantially correct. 
I always have to have some reservation when figures are quoted to me from the other side. But I will concede that they are substantially correct. I have not seen the actual document. In large measure that less favourable comparison with the average rate than was the case earlier results from the larger than anticipated December quarter figure for the consumer price index in Australia. The honourable member asked whether that means that there has been a decline in international competitiveness. It depends very much on what is the starting point. If the starting point of Australia 's international competitiveness is December 1975, any measure at all, even a measure produced by the honourable member for Lalor, would demonstrate that our international competitiveness has massively increased. The best evidence of the increase in our international competitiveness over the last three years is not only the extent to which a number of our significant import competing industries have been able to hold and improve their position but also the growing evidence, even insofar as manufacturing exports are concerned, of the capacity of Australian industry to win and to develop export markets. International competitiveness is crucial to this country's future. I am glad the honourable member is concerned about it. That is why it is essential that the government of this country continues to follow policies that exert the maximum downward pressure on inflation. 
-I think that the honourable member for Bonython is really asking a bit much to expect any honourable member on this side of the House to draw that sort of conclusion. To start with, the difference between the anticipated inflation rate at the time of the 1977 Budget and the actual inflation rate being experienced in the early part of 1978 was much greater than the difference between the anticipated inflation rate for the year at the time of the 1978 Budget and the current inflation rate. In my statement in 1978 one of the reasons I gave- I cannot recall whether I referred to it as one of the principal reasons, one of the major reasons or one of the most important reasons- was that lower price increases had had an impact on certain tax collections. I do not retreat in any way from that statement. I put it to the honourable gentleman that given the impossibility of comparing those two situations, and given the fact that the differential in inflation rates was quite different- they were of different magnitudes at the time- I do not think that the conclusion he invites me to draw is one that can be drawn. I am not prepared to give the sort of guarantee that the honourable gentleman seeks. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement on the announcement of the New South Wales Government this afternoon of moves towards having a 3714-hour week. 
Leave granted. 
Leave has been granted. I should make it clear that the Government will have no objection to a response from the Opposition of the same duration as the period for which I speak. 
I have given the House the subject. I do not have a written text of my remarks but I would like to take advantage of the leave that has been given me. Today the New South Wales Government, through the Minister for Industrial Relations in that State, made an announcement which offered thousands of electricity employees in that State a 37V4-hour week. I want to make it clear to this Parliament that the Commonwealth Government unreservedly condemns this irresponsible action by the New South Wales Government. It is a decision and an action which is totally against the national interest. Its implications for wages policy and for general economic recovery in the Australian community are enormous. Australia cannot afford a 3714-hour week, let alone a 35-hour week, for which this particular decision will obviously create pressure. 
This decision is not and cannot be limited to the electricity employees in New South Wales. It is a decision which will flow on and in relation to which there will be pressures for it to flow on to other sections of the community. It will not help the unemployed people in New South Wales or in any other part of Australia. It will add to labour costs in New South Wales and throughout Australia. It will lead to greater inflationary pressures in the Australian community. By this irresponsible cave-in the New South Wales Government has forfeited any claim to a pursuit of a responsible wages policy. The Wran Government in New South Wales has caved in in a fashion that its predecessor government, as my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  knows better than any person in this House, was not prepared to do. This decision will put at risk the already fragile degree of wage restraint in the Australian community. 
I make it clear to the House that this Government cannot idly stand by and allow irresponsible decisions of a State government to undermine national economic policy. The House, the Australian community and all State governments are aware that Commonwealth financial assistance to the States comes in a variety of forms. Within the assistance provided by the Commonwealth Government there is significant flexibility as far as decision-making at the Commonwealth level is concerned. I make it quite clear that, in making future decisions about the level of assistance to be given to the States by the Commonwealth Government, this Government will not ignore the implications of irresponsible decisions made by individual State governments. 
In particular, I make it quite clear that there is no way that this Government will go on supporting a guaranteed formula for general revenue payments or tax sharing which enables a State to receive an automatic adjustment for cost increases which result from that State's irresponsible decisions. The decision made by the New South Wales Government is a very serious and adverse one. It strikes at the basis of any semblance of a responsible wages policy for the community. It will create pressures for a flow-on of that decision to other sections of the community. The decision made by the New South Wales Government is irresponsible. It is an abandonment of any claim by that Government to responsible economic management and moderate, middle-of-the road policies. It is a decision which ought to receive the unanimous condemnation of this House. I present the following paper: 
New South Wales State Electricity Commission- Grant of 3716-hour Working Week- Ministerial Statement, 22 March 1979. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-The short answer to the honourable member's question is yes, because if an investor were to subscribe now to the Australian Savings Bond and were to hold the bonds until 1 June 1 979 he would not be subject to a reduction of the 8.75 per cent interest. The honourable member for Ballarat is quite right to infer that in those circumstances, taken with its other attendant qualities, this form of investment is a very attractive form of short-term security. 
-I have already indicated both in this House and elsewhere that in the time between now and the Budget it will not be my intention seriatim to respond to specific questions raised by the Leader of the Opposition as to what may or may not be included in that Budget. I have nothing to add to the earlier statements made by either my predecessor or me on that subject. 
I have received a number of memoranda from the Taxation Office and from the Treasury regarding the size of tax avoidance. I take the opportunity of informing the House of the implications of a decision of the Federal Court of Australia last week. The decision received some publicity. It involved a now amended section 36a of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The amendment was passed on 21 April 1977 by the House. On my advice from the Taxation Office, the effect of that decision will be to cost the revenue about $500,000 in the current financial year. In subsequent financial years, if the decision had gone in favour of the Taxation Commissioner, it would have been hoped that an additional $100m of revenue would have been collected. 
So if the honourable member is genuinely concerned about the level of the tax avoidance in this community I share that concern. In the next week or so I hope to be in a position to provide the House with some further substantial figures so far as the level of tax avoidance is concerned arising out of individual schemes. I do not have any recollection of a memorandum which ascribes that particular figure. I think the honourable member would be aware that this is an area in which figures tend to get bandied around. I mention the Westraders Pty Ltd case as an example of how figures can be bandied around. It was suggested that the cost to revenue of that decision in one quarter was $ 1000m. My advice is that if it had gone the other way we would have gained an extra $100m in revenue. If the honourable member wants me to provide the House with hard information as to the level of tax avoidance, I will do my best. In any event, apart from his question it had been my intention of so doing, but I think he will understand that until very hard evidence is available it hardly contributes to a mature debate on the subject to bandy figures around. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I have already indicated to the House that the growth in M3 for the current financial year will be in excess of the upper end of the range announced in the Budget. The extent to which monetary policy contributes to the control of inflation is of course governed by not only the anticipated and actual level of inflation throughout the year but also the extent of growth which occurs during the year. I can assure the honourable member for Gellibrand and the House that the Government continues to regard monetary policy as being a highly significant, indeed crucial, element so far as the control of inflation is concerned and that the money supply aggregates as they now stand and are likely to be at the end of the financial year continue to receive the very close attention of the Government. The Government's policy remains very much that monetary policy should do two things. It should contribute towards a downward pressure on the level of inflation and it should be at a sufficient level to underwrite sustained economic recovery. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is: No, I will not. In relation to the second part of the question, I believe that the statistics and information available from other sources regarding the level of foreign ownership are adequate having regard to the fact that when determining the sort of surveys to be carried out by the Australian Statistician the Government cannot ignore the obligation to apply expenditure restraint in that area as it is applied in other instrumentalities. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
In moving this motion the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  based his case and his appeal to this House on being the great defender of the average Australian. It is a noble aspiration to be a defender of the average Australian. I think this House ought to examine the credentials of the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to be defenders of the average Australian. The greatest contribution that any government can make to the welfare of the average Australian at present in the economic area is to create a more stable, more predictable and less inflationary economic climate. The greatest contribution and the greatest gift of the present Government to the average Australian has been the extent to which it has been able to keep the fundamentals of this economy on the correct path. 
No debate in this House can proceed on any aspect of government economic policy, on any comparison of the record of this Government and the previous Labor Government and the alternative policies of the Opposition, without acknowledging the enormous contribution that the policies of this Government have made to a restoration of economic stability, economic predictability and economic sanity in this country. This side of the House will never allow the Opposition to forget the economic chaos of the years between 1972 and 1975. We will never allow the Leader of the Opposition to run away from the consequences of the alternative policies that he is espousing at present. We will not allow the economic spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Gellibrand, to run away from the speech he made to a conference of Labor economists when, in a burst of realism, he acknowledged that the Labor Party would not regain office at the next election and that its first opportunity might be in 1983. He said that one of the greatest tasks the Party faced was a massive rebuilding of the public sector and that the only way that it could do that would be to persuade the Australian people that they had to pay more tax. 
How does that acknowledgment sit against what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition today? He said that the public sector had not been reduced during the time of this Government 's term of office. If it has not been reduced, why does the honourable member for Gellibrand believe, in another forum, that it has to be massively rebuilt? If the Opposition is really a low tax party and if it really argues that it would have a lower rate of taxation if it were in government, why does the economic spokesman for the Opposition say to a conference of Labor economists that one of the principal tasks of the Labor Party if it is returned to office in 1983 will be to persuade the Australian people that more taxation has to be paid in order to rebuild the public sector? The truth of the matter is that this Government has reduced the size of the public sector. This has been a slow job, a difficult job and a job that has been resisted by sections of the Australian community, not the least being the Parliamentary Labor Party. The public sector has been reduced because the Government fundamentally believes that the only way for a sustained economic recovery, for a maintenance of higher levels of employment and for a maintenance of lower rates of inflation over a period of time, is to restore incentive, activity and predictability of economic climate for the private sector. 
There can be no doubt that there is a stark difference between the basic approach of this side of the House and those who sit opposite. We do stand for smaller government, for lower taxation and for greater personal incentive. Not only do we stand for these ideals in philosophical terms, but also we have translated our commitment to those ideals into practical reality. The level of personal income tax collections in this current financial year are predicted for the first time in over 10 years to fall in real terms. A lot of statistics have been bandied around by the Leader of the Opposition in an endeavour to demonstrate that the personal tax burden now is greater than it was when he was in government. 
He has taken some hypothetical examples and he has endeavoured to equivocate on the fact that when the Labor Government went out of office in December 1975 it had no commitment to introduce tax indexation. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  quite rightly pointed out that the truth of the matter on tax indexation in the Labor Party was revealed at the conference in October 1975. In the face of that, the claim by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand that tax indexation would have been introduced automatically if the Labor Party had remained in office is an absolute deception. For the Labor Party to come into this House and claim that the fact that it adopted tax indexation on the basis of an ex post facto repentance at its annual conference in 1977 retrospectively proved that it would have done so in 1975 is stretching logic and believability to unreal limits. In December 1975 when the Labor Party went out of office, it left tax scales which if they had remained in place would have meant the collection of an extra $3,000m of revenue in this current financial year. Let there be no doubt about that. We even have an admission from the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand that that is the case. 
Let me return to the level of personal income tax collections. In 1978-79, they are predicted to fall in real terms, using a deflator of 7 per cent, by minus 0.3 per cent. That is the first time in more than 10 years that personal income tax collections are predicted to fall. What better comprehensive measure could there be of the overall, tax burden borne by the average Australian than that? That is a computation of all personal income tax collections. It does not include corporate tax, excise or sales tax collections. It includes the taxation paid out of the pockets of the people whom the Leader of the Opposition claims to defend in this debate. What the table to which the Leader of the Opposition referred showssimilar tables have been incorporated in  Hansard  several times- is that during 1978-79 there will be a fall in personal income tax collections. In 1973-74, the same section of taxation rose by 20.1 per cent on the previous year. In 1974-75, it rose by 19.9 per cent. In 1975-76, it rose by 3.5 per cent. That demonstrates more eloquently than anything else the fundamentally different approach to taxation policy by the previous Government and its inheritors today and those on this side of the House. 
What we have done with the taxation system in this country through tax indexation and the rate scale reform is basically to build into the structure a protection against the ravages of inflation for the ordinary average person, the people in whom honourable members opposite are interested. We have heard a lot about high income earners in this community. It is claimed that the top 10 per cent of income earners receive 40 per cent of the benefit from our taxation changes. That is broadly correct but it so happens that, generally speaking, the top 10 per cent of income earners pay 40 per cent of the tax. In a progressive taxation system, it is a matter of elementary logic that, when the scale is restructured, the money return to a high income earner will be greater than the return to a low income earner. High income earners pay more tax in the first place. The only way that we can make a sensible comparison of the way in which people have been relieved by taxation changes is to look at the percentage reductions in the amount of taxation that people have to pay. 
We heard during this debate some of the good old solid 'soak the rich' rhetoric from the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand. The Leader of the Opposition went closer to a doctrinaire socialist position on taxation policy than any spokesman for the Opposition whom I have heard so far this year. He talked about hitting the wealthy and defending the average bloke. He did not acknowledge the importance of getting inflation down in order to protect the average bloke. He did not have the decency to acknowledge that when his party was in government it did nothing about taxation avoidance. Nothing offends more the sensitivity of the average taxpayer in this country than to stand by and see some people exploit the taxation system to their own selfish advantage. Who has done something about that? Was it the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  when he was Treasurer? Was it his predecessors when they held the office of Treasurer? What did they do about implementing that marvellous rhetoric in  Mr Whitlam  's Blacktown speech in 1972? After saying that existing taxation scales for the wealthy were already high enough and that what had to be done was to close the loopholes, he said: 'We will close the loopholes. We will act. We will stop all this cheating going on'. What did his party do during its three years of Government? It did absolutely nothing. Members of the Opposition now have the temerity to come into this House and claim that they are seriously interested in tax avoidance. They claim that they are the defenders of the average man and that they are determined to stop the rip-offs occurring. The truth of the matter is that this Government has brought more equity into the taxation system than any government since the end of the Second World War. The Leader of the Opposition talked about the Utah Development Company. What he did not say was that this Government re-introduced a branch profits tax last year in specific response to what was an obvious anomaly between the taxation laws governing the operation of companies through subsidiaries in this country and those which operate through branches. In his selective fashion he did not mention that when he referred to Utah. Incidentally, it is a company which pays a very large amount of tax. It has made a major and highly successful investment in this country. That is the type of investment and the type of success story of which this country wants more. The Government makes no apology whatever for encouraging such investment. 
At no stage during his speech did either the Leader of the Opposition or the honourable member for Gellibrand acknowledge their extreme vulnerability in relation to their alternative taxation proposals. The Leader of the Opposition waxed eloquent about a capital gains tax but he did not clear up the confusion whether there will be an inflation adjustment. He did not tell us how he can reconcile his statement to the ethnic communities in this country that a man who buys a house for $250,000 and sells it for $300,000 will pay a capital gains tax on the profit of $50,000 with the statement he made to the National Press Club that there would be an inflation adjustment. We can imagine what the level of adjustment would need to be if his broad alternative economic strategy were applied. 
I return to what I said at the beginning of this debate. Essentially in a debate about the welfare of the average Australian and comparative economic policies, we have to compare fundamentals. This Government has, in a very large measure, restored the fundamental strength of the economy. We have not restored the economy completely. We still have a long way to go. During the last 20 minutes, the national accounts figures for the December quarter have been released. I would be the last person to say that those sorts of statistics do not have a tendency to gyrate from quarter to quarter. They do. But one thing that they show is that over the past 12 months there has been a growth in overall gross domestic product of approximately 5 per cent. In the nonfarm area, there has been a growth of 4.5 per cent. In the farm area there has been a staggering growth of 25.4 per cent. Inevitably, there will be some revision of those figures in the future but are they consistent with the sort of gloom that the Leader of the Opposition expressed when the 
Budget was brought in? He said in this House that the Government's policies were forcing the economy through the floor, that we were in the process of a deep, long recession and that only a radical change of policy would bring us out of it. The fact of the matter is that this Government's policies have delivered to the average Australian a degree of economic predictability, security, incentive and hope about the future that we have not seen during the 1970s. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following tables contain information on imports into Australia from Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland during 1976-77 and 1977-78; 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tables contain information on exports to Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland during 1976-77 and 1977-78: 
I, and I am sure all honourable members, recall the precise terms of the commitment that was made in the 1977 policy speech regarding local government funding. I take the opportunity of pointing to the enormous contribution that this Government has made to the financial strength and viability of local government thoughout Australia. Not the least of the elements of that contribution has been the benefits that local government has derived from much lower inflation and a greater improvement in economic stability. 
The Government attaches considerable importance to the concept of revenue sharing between the States and local government. This is the first Government to have given local government a direct percentage share of a growth tax. That has made a major contribution towards helping. I can assure the honourable gentleman that I will not depart from my practice and my attitude of not speculating on what may or may not be contained in the Budget. All I can say to the honourable gentleman is that that commitment was deliberately put in the policy speech and the Government remains very conscious of the importance of the implementation of that commitment to local government. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has advised that he does not have any information on exports of domestic or industrial solar water heaters as these goods are not separately indentified in the classification used to record export statistics. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Latest ABS statistics indicate that new capital expenditure in the mining industry is expected to be $l,055m in 1 978-79. Forecasting beyond one year is extremely uncertain and estimates are not available from ABS for the period to 1980-81. The Prime Minister indicated to the House on 22 February 1979 that the most recent Government survey of the industry, in December 1978, showed that the estimated capital cost of mining projects committed or in the final feasibility stage was $4 billion. Some of this estimated expenditure is likely to extend beyond 1980-8 1. This figure does not include estimated development expenditure on the North West Shelf joint venture, which is currently the subject of a $50m feasibility study nor, of course, does it include other projects that may be undertaken but are not yet committed. 
and (3) The choice between Australian and overseas funds will be affected by such features as the relative cost and availability of funds in the Australian and overseas capital markets at the time when finance for these projects is required. Past experience, as revealed by private studies and a study by the Industries Assistance Commission, shows that during the decade from the mid- 1 960s a little more than one half of all new funds raised, that is excluding internal company funds, were obtained from overseas sources, with the bulk of these funds being in the form of long term loans. Local borrowings and local share issues accounted for around 45 per cent of all new funding. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have no knowledge of the business arrangements of  Sir John  and Lady Kerr. I should add, in relation to part (2) of the question, that the secrecy provisions of the income tax law prohibit the divulging of the taxation affairs of particular taxpayers. 
During my recent absence overseas the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  addressed a question without notice to the then Acting Treasurer, relating to the affairs of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. I now provide the following information in response. 
Ansett Transport Industries' investment in Associated Securities Ltd was been a matter of public knowledge since Ansett acquired its controlling interest in that enterprise late in 1976.I am not able to confirm the figure of $18m mentioned by the honourable member. Nor am I able to confirm the accuracy of the implication that appears to be conveyed in the question that ASL was known to be, or regarded as, endangered ' at the time Ansett Transport Industries ' investment was made. 
At the time of the enactment of the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill (No. 2) 1978, which authorises the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to give Commonwealth guarantees in respect of the principal repayments and interest payments on a borrowing by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pry Ltd, there were no reports requested from Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. Nor has any specific action been taken under that Act following the collapse of Associated Securities Ltd. 
Sub-section (e) of section 6 of the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Act (No. 2) 1978 provides that 'so long as the amount borrowed, or any interest on that amount, remains unpaid- 
officers of the Australian Public Service will have full access at all reasonable times to the financial accounts of Ansett Transport Industries Limited and Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Proprietary Limited when authorised in writing by the Minister for that purpose; and 
each of those companies will do everything within its power to ensure that the officers so authorised have similar access to the financial accounts of any company or firm in which that company at any time has, whether directly or indirectly, a controlling interest'. 
Action would only be taken under such a provision if it was considered that the financial interests of the Commonwealth were at risk. In the case of Ansett borrowing overseas with a Commonwealth guarantee to finance the purchase of aircraft, the Commonwealth has protected its financial interest as guarantor by taking a mortgage over the aircraft relating to the borrowings; the collapse of ASL has in no way affected this security. 
-I will consider the proposal which is implicit in the question, but I say that against the background of a belief on my part, which I think is fairly widely shared across party lines and in many sections of the community, that the taxation and revenue raising laws of this country should, as far as possible, be neutral on relative social and society attitudes to various forms of behaviour and various forms of conduct. I think the honourable member would agree that one could get into very difficult and contradictory situations if, through the revenue laws, one were to try to fine tune the behaviour of people and fine tune attitudes. 
Having said that, I recognise that there is a health view of substance, and I will consider the honourable gentleman's suggestion. But I would not want him to think that that consideration would take place other than against the background of the general view that I have expressed regarding the nature of our revenue laws. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is 'Yes'. The answer to the second part of the question is 'Not necessarily'. The answer to the third part of the question is that I have already indicated that I will not guarantee the level of interest rates in any area of the Australian economy. 
-by leave- Last week, in reply to a question from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen, I indicated that I hoped to provide the House with some figures to illustrate the level of tax avoidance which has been practised in Australia in recent times. The figures I provide in this statement are indicative only and are not meant to be a definitive calculation of the total threat to revenue posed by tax avoidance. It is a matter of record that no government has been as active as this Government in closing tax avoidance loopholes. During 1978 the Government introduced five Bills to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act. There has also been major amendments to counter sales tax avoidance schemes. I have already foreshadowed further amendments to deal with schemes covering such things as expenses of discharging mortgages, variations of pre-paid interest and rent schemes, abuses of the trading stock provisions, abuses of the mortgage deduction for borrowing expenses and variations of the so-called Curran scheme. I anticipate that these amendments will be presented to the House shortly. 
Tax avoidance undermines the basic equity of the taxation system. It allows a relatively small group of individuals to shift their tax burden to those who cannot enter into such schemes because of the size or nature of their incomes or to those who, while being able to do so, choose not to participate. The Government will continue to be uncompromising in its attack on artificial tax avoidance schemes. No area will be immune from that attack. A standing arrangement exists whereby the Commissioner of Taxation draws to my attention particular schemes of tax avoidance as soon as sufficient evidence of those schemes comes to his notice. On every occasion on which a scheme has been brought to my attention by the Commissioner in this way, action has been taken to eliminate the scheme. The Government will continue the practice of announcing its intention to take legislative action against particular schemes, with effect from the date of announcement. 
It is, of course, impossible to quantify the total threat to revenue posed by tax avoidance schemes at any given time. However, it is possible, on the basis of claims made in taxation returns pursuant to particular tax avoidance arrangements, to gain some idea of the magnitude of tax avoidance, the resultant threat to revenue, and the erosion of the equity of the tax system which loss of revenue from those schemes represents. In this connection I have been informed by the Commissioner of Taxation that examination of tax returns for 1977-78 has revealed total claims for deductions from assessable income totalling approximately $1,41 lm under certain tax avoidance arrangements. On the quite realistic assumption that the average tax rate of those involved would normally be approximately 50c in the dollar, the amount of revenue at stake in respect of these claims alone is approximately $705m, of which approximately $253m would, if the claims were successful, be set off against tax on income for the year 1 977-78 and the balance of $452m against tax of subsequent years. The claims of which I speak arise out of schemes against which the Government has already taken action. The Commissioner of Taxation will be vigorously contesting all claims under these schemes. The total sum of approximately $1,41 lm includes claims for deductions totalling $94 lm under the so-called Curran scheme and its variants, and approximately $295m under trading stock schemes. 
I interpolate here that that figure of $941 m in respect of the Curran scheme is relevant to the criticism made of the claim I made last year that the threat to revenue involved in that particular scheme was in the order of $500m. What I am saying is that on these claims alone revenue in the order of $450m is involved. One must also take into account the very large number of schemes in respect of which claims have not been made in tax returns for 1977-78 which are clearly involved in the total threat to revenue posed by that scheme. 
I stress again that the figures I have used represent claims made under schemes against which, on the best advice available to the Government, the Parliament has effectively legislated or I have foreshadowed legislation. The figures do not, of course, measure in any way the total volume of revenue which would have been at risk if the Government had not acted as it did last year. Nor indeed do they measure- and in fact, it is impossible to measure- the potential revenue loss from schemes about which the Commissioner of Taxation has not yet received full information. I am conscious that a schemebyscheme approach such as that taken by the Government over the past 12 months adds to the bulk and complexity of the Income Tax Assessment Act. However, until an effective general anti-avoidance provision can be inserted in the Act and is demonstrated to be effective, the Government has absolutely no alternative but to continue a scheme-by-scheme approach. A considerable amount of work has been done on the feasibility of rewriting section 260 of the Act. Students of our taxation law and practice will be aware of the formidable nature of this task. I can only say that the results of that endeavour will be made known to the Parliament as soon as practicable. Honourable members will be aware of the recommendation of the Asprey Review Com.mittee on Taxation that an advisory committee on taxation be established. I see considerable merit in that proposal and intend putting certain recommendations to the Government in relation to it. In framing my own recommendations, I am seeking the views of a number of interested bodies, including those representing the legal and accounting professions. 
Needless to say, the Government is anxious to ensure that, in the process of acting against tax avoidance schemes, there are no unintended inhibitions placed upon normal commercial transactions. I do not believe that this has occurred with the legislation which has been enacted to date. However, it is something which the Government has very much in mind when framing anti-avoidance legislation. The Government very much welcomes comment and constructive criticism on its taxation legislation. Where the legislation is of necessity very complex- and this is inescapable in the anti-avoidance area- there is a special need to have such comment and constructive criticism. I commend the statement to the House. I take the opportunity in advance of apologising to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  if it is necessary for me to leave the House before he concludes his reply. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The information sought by the honourable member is set out in Table 1 . 
The per capita estimates are based on the estimated yields in each State for the years 1976-77 to 1978-79 of a hypothetical increase of one per cent in personal income tax, or the cost in each State of a one per cent rebate on personal income tax. (Under the Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Act 1978 each State is able to increase its share of income tax revenues by increasing the personal income tax paid by residents or to give residents of the State an income tax rebate at a cost to the State.) 
The estimates of a one per cent increase/decrease in personal income tax may be read directly from Table 2 (that is, by taking one per cent of estimates in columns (2), (5) and (8)). These estimates were derived by dissecting personal income tax collections (excluding receipts from the health insurance levy) in 1 976-77 and 1 977-78 and estimated collections for 1978-79 by State on the basis of taxpayers' residential post codes relating to preliminary income tax statistics for the 1 976-77 income year. 
As collections include tax paid in respect of the current and previous years, the State of residence dissection for the 1976-77 income year may not reflect accurately the residential dissection of collections in that year. The 1976-77 dissection was also applied to 1977-78 and 1978-79 (estimated) collections in the absence of more recent data. 
The estimated yields calculated in this way may not necessarily be an accurate representation of what would have been assessed as State tax. This is because, apart from the qualifications above, the basic statistics available to the Commissioner of Taxation as to the State of residence of each taxpayer that have been used in making the estimates are not classified in terms of the definition of State 'residence' contained in the Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Act 1978. 
Table 2 compares the States' Stage 1 tax sharing entitlements for 1976-77 and 1977-78 and the Budget estimates for 1978-79 with estimated Commonwealth net personal income tax collections (excluding receipts from the health insurance levy) raised in each State over the same period. The figures in columns (3), (6) and (9) show estimated Stage 1 tax sharing payments to each State for each SI of estimated income tax collections raised in the State by the Commonwealth for the years 1976-77 to 1978-79. 
The State by State pattern of estimated Stage 1 tax sharing payments for each $ 1 of income tax collections reflects the equalisation assistance built into the tax sharing payments to compensate the less populous States for the higher cost of providing government services and the lower tax bases in those States. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has misunderstood my answer and he continues to misunderstand the effect of the present levels of taxation on the Australian community. When I spoke yesterday about the income tax system being neutral as far as possible, I had in mind that the income tax system ought not to express a government view as to whether a particular form of behaviour was desirable or undesirable. Quite obviously the Leader of the Opposition has misunderstood that answer. 
As he has given me the opportunity of replying to his question, let me point out to him that in suggesting that rises in indirect taxation have occurred in recent years it should be borne in mind that they are nominal rises only because, for example, the excise rises that were contained in the last Budget had the effect of restoring the real levels that pertained after increases introduced by one of the Budgets were brought down during the Whitlam years. It is a totally false representation of the situation to talk only about the effect of indirect tax increases without acknowledging that side by side with any changes that have occurred in that area have been very significant personal taxation changes. Principal among the effects of those changes in respect of the people of whom the Leader of the Opposition speaks is the fact that under those changes 500,000 Australian people are no longer liable to pay any income tax. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 2 March 1979 by a  Financial Times  writer on the subject mentioned. It would be premature to say at this stage that a code exists, as the OECD Council has not yet considered the matter. 
Australia has provided comments to the group in the OECD which examined this matter. 
Australia's longstanding attitude, as evidenced by its domestic tax law and the double taxation agreements it has entered into, is that the principle of arm's length dealing, on which the OECD report is based, should be used in determining profits on international transactions between associated enterprises, so as to ensure that transnational corporations pay an appropriate amount of Australian tax on profits from activities on this country. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. A draft Code of Conduct is to be prepared by an Ad Hoc Inter-Governmental Working Group under the auspices of the UN Commission on Transnational Corporations. Australia has participated in and continues to participate in meetings of the Working Group and was originally a founding member of the Commission. Since 1977, when we ceased to be a member of the Commission, Australia has attended its meetings as an observer. 
The Working Group is at present attempting to prepare an agreed outline of the Code. 
-The following answer to the honourable member's question is based on advice received from the Reserve Bank: 
I ) Reserve Bank Governors and  Deputy  Governors have continued to speak on economic and monetary subjects, including comment from time to time on aspects of monetary policy. Examples of such addresses since 1972 are: 
September 1 973- Governor- Seventh Monash Economics Lecture: 'Some Aspects of Allowing for the Future '. 
March 1975- Governor- Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies Annual Conference: 'Some Policy Challenges'. 
February 1 976-Governor-29th International Banking Summer School: 'Central Banking in a Changing Environment'. 
April 1978- Deputy Governor- Committee for Economic Development of Australia/Commercial Law Association of Australia: 'The Australian Capital MarketPressures for Change'. 
The text of each of these addresses has been made public. 
and (3) There has been no change of policy. There is no reason why the Governor and Deputy Governor should not be heard publicly from time to time and I would expect this to take place. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The question of which institutions are to be accepted as non-shareholder prime lenders and so have access to Primary Industry Bank funds is essentially one for the Bank itself to decide, although the provisions of the Primary Industry Bank Act 1977 requiring the Bank to keep the Treasurer informed as to its policies and proposed policies, and in certain circumstances to consult with him in relation to them, are relevant. I am informed that the Primary Industry Bank has accepted applications for prime lender status from three pastoral finance companies. I understand that the Bank expects to announce the names of these companies and that they will have access to the Bank 's funds as soon as legal formalities are completed. 
I am informed that stock mortgages are acceptable within the policies of the Primary Industry Bank. However, security for loans refinanced by the Primary Industry Bank is arranged between the prime lender, which accepts any risk associated with the loan, and its customer, the primary producer, and the Bank is not involved in decisions on individual cases. 
-The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia approved loans and equipment finance for various categories in the year ended 30 June 1 978 as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( I ), (2) and (3)1 have consulted the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation on the point raised in the question and the following is based on his advice. 
The Commonwealth Development Bank can and does accept stock or plant mortgages as security for its loans. It is prepared to consider requests for finance from a share farmer where the purpose falls within the scope of its lending policy and the applicant meets the general criteria set out in its printed lending policy statement. The statement of the Bank's lending policy is a public document and is freely available to members of the farming community. 
The Development Bank does not specifically publicise that it accepts any particular type of security and does not see any need to do so. In accordance with its chaner as laid down in the Commonwealth Banks Act, the Bank is primarily concerned with the prospects of success of an enterprise and it does not necessarily have regard to the type or value of the security available. 
Department of the Media: Publications  (Question No. 3497) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In relation to the preamble to the honourable member's question I should explain that, although certain possible amendments to the Insurance Act 1973 have been circulated by my Department to the insurance industry Tor comment, neither I nor the Government are committed to these proposals either in principle or detail. 
The matters referred to under (i), (ii) and (iii) in the question are under notice as part of the normal process of monitoring and review of domestic and overseas insurance legislation. The Government does not, however, have them under special consideration at present. 
The question of regulation of insurance brokers is under consideration at present and an announcement will be made in due course. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
There were some valuation problems associated with the provisions applicable to the production of finished stones from stones in the rough supplied by customers. These have now been overcome. 
No. 
-I would have thought that even the honourable member for Melbourne Ports who, in one way or another, has been a member of parliaments of this nation for over 20 years would have realised one very simple fact, that is, that I do not have ministerial authority under the taxation Act, nor had any of my predecessors, to determine which individuals or companies should be prosecuted. I know nothing about the matter to which the honourable member has referred. I think it is nothing short of disgraceful that the time of the Parliament should be used to imply that some alleged prosecution has been delayed, presumably- by innuendo- by some kind of intervention by this Government. 
My attention has been drawn to the decision of the South Australian Government. I think it is a regrettable decision. I think it will add - 
I think the decision is regrettable. I think it is regrettable for the State of South Australia. I think it will discourage industry away from the State of South Australia. Incidentally, I notice that the decision has already drawn the public support of the New South Wales Minister for Energy,  Mr Hills.  I think that honourable members on this side of the House will be very interested to know the views of the Victorian Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Wilkes.  I wonder whether he will be interested in supporting it. This kind of commercial provincialism on the part of State governments in Australia is to be deplored. I think it distorts the operations of market forces. I think it is detrimental to overseas perceptions of Australia. I think it is something that in the long run will discourage foreign investment. If the South Australian Government is concerned about the price of natural gas in South Australia, if it is concerned about some aspects of that particular and at this stage potential development in South Australia, there are other weapons available. I do not believe that amendment of companies legislation arbitrarily reducing the shareholding of an individual company which has been properly acquired in the open market is a proper response by any government, irrespective, of its political persuasions, at a State level in Australia. 
The situation is that there is a relationship between the Reserve Bank and the Wheat Board in the nature of a banker-customer relationship just as there is between any other bank and customer. The honourable member is theoretically correct when he says that, just as with any other bank, once an overdraft limit has been agreed between the bank and the customer it is a breach of that arrangement for the bank unilaterally to withdraw that particular facility. I am advised by my colleague- and it is certainly the intention of the Reserve Bank to make the approach- that there will be an agreement between the Reserve Bank and the Wheat Board for the overdraft facility to be reduced by the amount of $300m and that that amount of money will be put out to the non-bank public through the issue of commercial bills. In those circumstances the proposition that the honourable member's question raises does not apply. 
-The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is yes. The M3 figure for the 12 months to the end of March was, to be precise, 1 1.4 per cent. For publication purposes that figure was rounded down to 1 1 per cent. For the 12 months to the end of February the figure was 1 1.6 per cent and for publication purposes it was rounded up to 12 per cent. If the honourable member pauses for a moment to analyse that figure of 11.4 per cent for the 12 months to the end of March and he bears in mind that virtually none of the effects of the refinancing of $ 155m of the first wheat advance would have been reflected in that figure and he also bears in mind that there is a further $300m of refinancing of the first wheat payment to be captured in the figures for subsequent months, he will be looking at a total of $455m, which represents slightly in excess of 1 per cent of the money supply growth throughout the year. Even making allowance for the fact that perhaps not all of those commercial bills will be effectively sold to the non-bank public, there is still some considerable scope, all other things being equal, for a further reduction in the rate of growth of M3 for the balance of the 12-month period to 30 June. 
The honourable gentleman spoke of a new money supply target. I have not announced and I do not propose to announce a new money supply target for the remainder of the current financial year. As I have already indicated, the outcome of M3 will be over 8 per cent. The reasons for that have been explained in some detail in answers that I have given in this House and also in the Press statement and Press conference which accompanied the announcement of the increase in the interest rate on Australian savings bonds and on semi-government interest rates. There are good, proper and anti-inflationary reasons why the money supply outcome should be above 8 per cent for the current year. Growth is greater than forecast at the time of the Budget, and it is entirely consistent with an anti-inflationary stance in monetary policy that the outcome should be above 8 per cent. So far as the terms of the main loan are concerned, they will be announced when appropriate. Just as this Government was not prepared to delay other announcements in the interest rate area on account of the Victorian election, we do not intend to accelerate unduly announcements just because there is a Victorian election. 
It is true, as the honourable member for Henty says, that the Federal Government has made extremely generous financial provision for all State governments throughout Australia. The tax sharing arrangements which this Government has put into place over the past three years and which give to the States a percentage of income tax revenue and flexibility within that percentage to spend the money on what they wish have, I think, contributed enormously to the financial independence of various State governments and have enabled individual State governments to make very significant revenue concessions. I do not think that the significance of that point ought to be lost on any member of this House. It has been suggested in some quarters, in the context of the Victorian election, that the handling by the Victorian Government of this increased financial flexibility from the Federal Government has been less than satisfactory. The Federal Government believes that what the Victorian Government has done over the past three years has demonstrated a prudent use of this greater financial flexibility and has illustrated the extent to which the new financial sharing arrangements give State governments capacity, independence and flexibility to make revenue concessions of their own choice according to the needs and aspirations of their own people. I think that that policy has been of great assistance and has been widely received. 
The decision that an extra $300m of the first advance payment will be financed on the commercial market is a very important part of monetary policy at present. If the honourable gentleman will be a little more patient I think that he will see some public reference to it today. I understand from the Australian Wheat Board that the Wheat Board and the Reserve Bank of Australia have agreed that the overdraft of the Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank will be reduced by some $300m and that as a consequence that additional amount of $300m will be funded as indicated in the statement I made last Sunday week. In those circumstances the necessity for any direction to the Wheat Board from my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, simply does not arise. As my colleague indicated in answer to a question yesterday, the matter is academic. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is complementary to the Bill I have just introduced. It will formally declare the rate of tax payable in respect of mining payments made on or after 1 July 1979 relating to the use of Aboriginal land for mining and exploration purposes. Provisions governing the imposition of a withholding tax on the payments and machinery for collection of the tax by a system of deduction at source are contained in the earlier Bill. The combined effect of the two Bills will be to tax the payments at the rate of 6.4 per cent of the payments, which is effectively the same as a rate of 32 per cent applied to one-fifth of the payments. Details of the provisions of the Bill are contained in the explanatory memorandum being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-I say at the outset that I welcome the interest that the Opposition is now taking in the subject of closing tax avoidance loopholes. It really is very welcome to see a strain of bipartisanship so far as this subject is concerned. We on this side do appreciate it because honourable members opposite have been rather dormant on the subject for a long time. I have read the report of the decision which was made, I think, by a Board of Review. I think the decision is substantially to the effect described by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in his question. The matter of an appeal against that decision is under consideration, I understand, by the Commissioner. I cannot tell the honourable member without checking with the Commissioner precisely where it stands at the present time. I will give consideration to whether some change to the law arising out of that particular decision is necessary and desirable. I will not at this stage try to indicate whether it is or it is not. I would want to take some further advice from the Commissioner before I did that. 
-After Question Time I will be in touch with my colleague the AttorneyGeneral. I will convey the question to him. I undertake, on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, to give the honourable member an answer as soon as possible. I understand that the Minister representing the Attorney-General is indisposed this morning and that is the reason for his absence. I will try to get an answer for the honourable member as quickly as possible. 
I am aware of the statements made by the Prime Minister and by the Deputy Prime Minister during the 1977 election campaign. Unlike some of the descriptions of those statements that have been used by members on the other side of the House, I say that the Prime Minister made a prediction and not a firm and unqualified commitment as is suggested by - 
Opposition  members- Ha, ha! 
-Well, the honourable member for Lalor used the word 'prediction' in the first part of the question that I am now answering. That is an accurate description of what the Prime Minister said, so let us not distort what was actually said. The truth of the matter is that the sorts of interest rate reductions that were predicted at that time have not materialised, and there are reasons for that. But what ought to be borne in mind is that, notwithstanding the increases that have occurred recently in the longterm bond rate and in the interest rate on Australian Savings Bonds, the interest rate on Australian Savings Bonds at present is still 0.75 per cent below what it was in the middle of 1977 and the official interest rate on long-term bonds is presently lower than it was in the middle of 1977. There are reasons for this. I have explained, in this House and on other occasions, the reasons for the circumstances that made it possible in November of last year for this Government responsibly to reduce official interest rates, which were altered after that decision was taken and which altered the background against which interest rate decisions could be taken in the future. 
I have said repeatedly over the past few weeks, and I will say it again, that no government is in a position to guarantee interest rates. I do not propose to guarantee interest rates in any area of the Australian economy. The only thing I can guarantee is that, so far as I am concerned and so far as this Government is concerned, we will continue to pursue to the maximum extent possible an anti-inflationary policy. Ultimately, the success of an anti-inflationary policy is the determinant of whether or not we will have higher or lower interest rates in this country. Ultimately, there remains the stark distinction between the Opposition and us that we are the party that will follow policies that in the long run will produce lower interest rates because we are committed to policies of anti-inflationary activity and lower deficits. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, together with another that I shall introduce shortly, contains provisions to implement the proposal that the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and I announced on 20 July last to the effect that certain revenues derived by Aboriginal communities and groups from the use of Aboriginal land for exploration and mining purposes be taxed by means of a withholding tax system. There is a clear need for certainty and simplicity in the rules governing tax on payments flowing to Aboriginals from mining operations. It is important for representative bodies, such as the Aboriginal Land Councils which, on behalf of Aboriginal communities, are authorised to negotiate terms and conditions on which mining may take place, to have a ready means of assessing the after-tax benefits of payments to the communities. 
Under the present income tax law this would not be an easy task. Much of the mineral royalties and other payments that Aboriginal communities can expect to receive as a result of agreements for mining projects in the Northern Territory and elsewhere in Australia will be received in the first instance by various Aboriginal bodies having representative and administrative roles. Those bodies will form a conduit through which mining payments will pass to the benefit of Aboriginal communities. Because of the unusual nature of this structure and other related factors, application of the present law would present difficulties. It would mean that, in practice, the after-tax value of payments received for the use of Aboriginal land for mining purposes would not with any assurance be determined in advance by those negotiating on behalf of the Aboriginals. Perhaps more importantly, there could also be some quite inappropriate taxation effects. The new withholding tax will overcome these problems and will have a simple operation. 
Broadly speaking, the tax, which will be a final tax not subject to later processes of assessment, will be collected by deduction at the earliest point at which revenues from mining activities are paid to representative distributing bodies, such as the Aboriginal Land Councils, or to Aboriginal persons or groups. Once a mining payment has borne withholding tax at the source in this way, subsequent distributions or applications or the after-tax proceeds, other than by way of remuneration for services rendered, will not be subject to any further income tax in the hands of the Aboriginal beneficiaries or of any interposed Aboriginal body. Specific tax exemption provisions in the Bill will ensure this. 
Withholding tax is to be set at a fiat rate of 6.4 per cent of the gross payments to which it will apply. This rate, which will be formally declared by the second Bill, is a convenient way of giving expression to the Government's decision that a tax of 32 per cent be applied to one-fifth of the gross payments. I stress that the rate was arrived at after most careful consideration. It takes into account that substantial amounts attributable to payments from mining operations can be expected to be expended on the provision of facilities and services for Aboriginal communities and for the benefit of people whose income level is low. On balance, the Government believes that a rate calculated in this way is a reasonable revenue contribution out of mining payments of this kind. 
The formal provisions contained in the Bill for calculation and collection of the withholding tax follow closely the form of the existing dividend and interest withholding taxes. Whilst the formal legislative structure of the tax is to impose liability for the withholding tax in the first instance on the Aboriginals or bodies who receive the payments, the recipients are not actually called on to make tax payments. Under the withholding tax collection provisions, mining companies, governments and others who make the payments will carry this responsibility. They will be required to deduct withholding tax and forward the deductions to the Taxation Office in the normal way in satisfaction of the tax liabilities of the recipients.  (Quorum formed). 
As announced in the statement of 20 July 1 978, the withholding tax system is to apply to payments made on or after 1 July 1979. Opportunity is also being taken in this Bill to make two purely technical amendments to replace redundant references to departments that have been abolished. Being substituted are references to the departments that, under current administrative arrangements, have assumed functions of the abolished departments. Detailed explanations of the various provisions of the Bill are contained in a memorandum that is being circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has referred to some very good company figures. I am delighted that those companies have made larger profits because that is good news for their employees and for the confidence and profitability of Australian business. The fact of the matter is that, on an historic basis, according to the most commonly-used measure of Australian companies, the profit share is still significantly lower than it has been over a period. I think that, using that traditional measure, with which I am sure the Leader of the Opposition is very familiar, the comparison is that the profit share is now under 14 per cent, as opposed to an average over the years of about 17 per cent. So I do not think that we have anything to crow about as far as corporate profitability is concerned. As far as speculation about corporate tax levels is concerned, I think the Leader of the Opposition will know that it is not my practice to respond to speculation of that character. 
I think this is about the third occasion in the last six months that the Opposition has raised a matter of public importance on the question of our overseas borrowing program and, for the third time, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has fallen into the rather simplistic error of contrasting the action of this Government of borrowing heavily overseas to supplement our international reserves with its criticism in opposition of the overseas borrowing antics of the Whitlam Government in 1975. What the honourable member for Gellibrand did not do was to acknowledge the very significant differences between what we have done during the past two years in borrowing overseas to supplement our international reserves and what was attempted to be done in 1 975. What he did not accept, and what I put to the House, is that the burden of our very legitimate criticism at that time was directed towards the methodology of the then Government in its overseas borrowing practices. One is reminded of the almost parting comments of a former Treasurer, the former member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Crean,  when he said- and I do not think I do him an injustice with these words- that the Government of the day should continue to be a cautious borrower on official account. In using those words he criticised very trenchantly the use of dubious intermediaries and thereby the debauching of the international credibility of this country in borrowing overseas. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand does not take into account the differences between the purposes of those purported borrowings and the purposes of these borrowings of which he has spoken. He does not acknowledge the secrecy and the deception alleged by some in what led up to those attempted borrowings. Of course, nor does he acknowledge that it was contemplated at one stage that $4,000 m would be borrowed in one hit, whereas the borrowing program in which this Government has engaged over the past three years to supplement our international reserves has been spread in fact over a significant period and has not been purportedly in one hit. 
What he did not like to remind the House of is that at one stage a Minister in the former Government held Executive Council authority to borrow a total sum of $4,000m in one hit. I put it to the House at the beginning of my speech that it is absolute nonsense to suggest that one can draw an analogy between what occurred thenthe methodology, the secrecy, the bunching , effects and the purposes of the borrowings- and what has occurred since this Government began in 1976 and 1977 to borrow in very large measure to supplement our reserves. One cannot make an accurate comparison. 
It is correct that we have borrowed about $4,000m during the period of which the honourable member for Gellibrand has spoken. The Government makes no secret of that fact. We borrow to supplement our international reserves. Whereas I thought the honourable member for Gellibrand had devoted most of his speech to a criticism of the use of overseas borrowings as a method of supplementing our reserves, when he came to the end of his speech I was utterly confused as to how he believed that we could help our balance of payments in this country short of a miraculous upsurge in our export industries over the next 12 months, because he criticised not only overseas borrowings to supplement our reserves, but also, by implication, attempts by the Government to encourage private capital inflow into this country. He tried to pull back a little from that towards the end of his speech when he realised what he had done because he criticised the level of foreign ownership- a good old faithful to be dragged out by the Opposition when we are having a debate about economics. He said- and I am sure that I quote him correctly- that the level of foreign ownership in so many of these industries is unsatisfactorily high.  His  words were that that is an inevitable concomitant of encouraging private capital inflow. He criticised us for encouraging overseas investment in this country. I see that he nods assent. 
-Of course we have encouraged overseas investment in this country. We will go on encouraging overseas investment in this country, because overseas investment in Australia has made an enormous contribution to the development of this country in the past and will continue to make a contribution towards developing this country in the future. The fact is that traditionally Australia has financed its balance of payments through a supplementation of our trade account by private capital inflow, lt has been the hesitant character of that private capital inflow over the past few years- a hesitancy which is diminishing- that has made it necessary for us to borrow substantial amounts on official account to supplement our reserves. The honourable member for Gellibrand made the rather simplistic criticism that we ought to invest some of the proceeds of these overseas borrowings in our export industries. 
-They are used to supplement our reserves. Surely as the Opposition spokesman on economic affairs the honourable member for Gellibrand would know the difference in the impact on our money supply between bringing those funds in for domestic purpose and using them to supplement our international reserves. To make such a statement is to misunderstand the fundamental reason for those borrowings. In his selective citation of figures the honourable member for Gellibrand started off by saying that in 1973 our overseas indebtedness was $96 a head. Of course it was $96 a head in 1 973 because at that time we were still experiencing the beneficial effects of the high private capital inflow into Australia that occurred during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Indeed, that was the pattern that was disturbed as the 1970s wore on. As private capital inflow dropped off, as people became more reluctant to invest in Australia as people were told by representatives of the then Australian Government that foreign investment was no longer wanted, is it any wonder that people became hesitant? 
Is it any wonder that Australia's balance of payments situation deteriorated as the 1970s wore on? Naturally one would find a healthy situation in June 1973. Over the past two years we have not acted out of character so far as overseas borrowings are concerned. We have been traditionally a net importer of capital. I am sure that the honourable member for Gellibrand would agree with that. It is a thoroughly orthodox, sound, predictable and appropriate economic practice for a government to borrow overseas at a time when private capital inflow is more hesitant than it has been in earlier years. 
I think it is worthwhile spending a few moments analysing Australia's balance of payments to recognise that there have been some improvements in the past few months. We face a situation where I and the Government believe that there will be a continuing strengthening over the remaining part of this financial year, particularly on the trade account. All honourable gentlemen will be aware of the remarkably plentiful wheat crop in the current year and the enormous contribution that that section of our rural industries will make again to Australian export earnings. I think we are all aware that the level of imports in relation to exports has begun to trail off over the past few months, due in large measure to having got out of the system the bunching effects of the phasing down of the investment allowance from 40 per cent to 20 per cent from the middle of last year. Both of these factors add up to a healthier situation for our balance of payments. Whereas in the months that immediately followed the Budget we were told by critics that our balance of payments was going to be very much worse than had been predicted by the Government at the time of the Budget, according to the latest information available to the Government from its official advisers the situation is that the balance of payments forecasts will be very much on track for the current financial year. 
Thus far in 1978-79 we have borrowed $ 1,560m. We have borrowed it in a variety of currencies, which surely the honourable member for Gellibrand will accept as sound practice. It is obviously sensible not to borrow everything in yen, in American dollars, in Swiss francs or in deutschmarks, but to achieve a spread; and we have succeeded in achieving a spread. I think that we have a very proper spread amongst the various currencies of the world. Of course, there are exchange risks in borrowing and there are also interest rate differentials. To the extent that we borrow in a hard currency at a low interest rate we take an exchange risk; that is an inevitable fact of life. In our overseas borrowings we have attempted to achieve a diversification of interest rates, taking advantage of lower interest rates and also a spread of exchange risk. 
I think it is also worth pointing out to the House that as a percentage of gross domestic product Australia's overseas indebtedness to date now stands at about 6 per cent. True it is- and I will be fair to the honourable memberthat in 1973 it stood at 3;9 per cent. It is equally true that in 1965- one could hardly say that that was a bad year for the Australian economy- it stood at 8.7 per cent. In 1968 it stood at 6.5 per cent. In 1969 it stood at 6.3 per cent. One could hardly say that 1968 and 1969 were bad years for the Australian economy- that our triple A credit rating was at risk as alleged. They were very good years for the Australian economy. The fact of the matter is that at the present time, historically speaking, Australia's international reserves, as a percentage of gross domestic product, are not high and they do not justify some of the alarmist language which the honourable member for Gellibrand has used during his remarks. 
I say again to the House in response to the honourable member for Gellibrand that to compare the thoroughly responsible, orthodox and official borrowings which have been undertaken very prudently by the Government, under very favourable terms and in a fashion which has done credit to the international reputation of the Australian Government as a prime borrower over the past two years, with what was attempted during 1975 by the former Administration is to compare two entirely different situations- two entirely different propositions. What we have done over the past two years has been in response to a situation which we trust will not continue indefinitely; a situation which gradually is being rectified; a situation which, in the long run, can be rectified permanently only by achieving much lower rates of inflation and even greater levels of international confidence about the strength of the Australian economy. 
What we have done during that time has been done in a responsible, entirely proper and entirely cautious manner to supplement Australia's international reserves in a way which does not impose an undue burden on future generations of Australians in so far as the repayment of the debt is concerned. Any examination of the overseas debt in terms of percentage of gross domestic product would give the lie to any suggestion made in that direction. I put it to the House that there are no grounds for the alarmist talk and the criticism which has come from the honourable member for Gellibrand about an instrument of that section of this Government's external policy which, I submit, has been conducted in an entirely proper, responsible and productive fashion. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Solar heaters for use in heating water for household hot water systems are exempt from sales tax. Solar heaters for use in heating water for swimming pools or for business or industrial use are taxable at 1 5 per cent unless they qualify for exemption as aids to manufacture or production. 
Statistics of the value of solar water heaters sold in Australia are not available. However, the Australian Bureau of Statistics has supplied the following figures which relate to solar absorber units (components of complete solar water heating systems) manufactured in Australia. 
-I think the honourable member for Sydney knows, as does every honourable member of this House, the attitude and the record of this Government regarding blatant tax avoidance schemes. It is an attitude and approach which will continue without cessation and without any area being quarantined. But I think honourable members on this side, and I would hope honourable members on the other side, would also recognise that not every transaction which involves a person entering into an arrangement whereby the path followed results in a lesser as opposed to a greater amount of tax being paid constitutes a tax avoidance arrangement. lt is about time that some people on the other side of the House understood that if a person enters into an arrangement with a proper commercial objective, and implements it in a way that attracts the least amount of tax, that does not, in the minds of a great number of people in the community, constitute a tax avoidance scheme. That fairly simple and practical distinction ought to be borne in mind by all honourable members. 
As to the specific circumstances which t,he honourable member raised in his question, I am not going to give a kerbside opinion as to whether or not they constitute a tax avoidance scheme. The honourable member ought to be aware of the traps into which a government of his persuasion fell when kerbside opinions were given about the legal effect of certain arrangements. I will look at what the honourable gentleman has said.  His  question draws attention to a greater buoyancy in the trading in shares of a great Australian company. I believe that that is a good thing. 
The honourable member for Newcastle has been a member of this House long enough to know that at this time of the year there starts a process of speculation, innuendo, rumour and suggestion, a great amount of which is designed not to promote productive debate on economic or social issues in Australia but rather to cause unnecessary panic and distress in sections of the Australian community. I tell the honourable member for Newcastle that I have absolutely no intention of being drawn into comment on that speculation. I have indicated that before and I indicate it again. I do not intend, by responding to specific questions, bit by bit and suggestion by suggestion, to flesh out what will constitute the economic decisions of the Government in the forthcoming Budget. 
-I thought that the Leader of the Opposition, as well as the honourable member for Newcastle, had been here long enough to know that this time of the year is the happy season or the silly season for speculation and rumours. In respect of his question, as with the question from the honourable member for Newcastle, I have absolutely no intention of responding specifically to what he has asked of me. It ill becomes the Leader of the Opposition, a former Treasurer, to start to talk about the comparative taxation records of this side of the House and his party when it was in government, as it presided over the largest and most automatic increase in personal income tax collections in any three-year period that this country has known since Federation. It did that for one very simple reason: It believed that that was necessary to finance its expenditure programs because that was the platform and that was the approach on which his party went to the people. The Leader of the Opposition, in starting to talk about the comparative taxation performances of the two sides of the Parliament, is, to use the vernacular, on extremely sticky ground. 
As the honourable member for Lilley attempted to point out during the course of his question, there is in circulation a publication called  Australia Ripped Off. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition thinks that it is a good publication. I would like everybody to remember that interjection. Members of the Opposition by their interjections are associating themselves with that publication. I invite members of the Government parties and members of the public to get hold of a copy of this document which costs 60c. If that is a measure of the moderate leadership of the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament, then it is a very interesting commentary on just how far to the left the Labor Party is drifting in these matters. If we analyse the sheer obsession of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union- and presumably members of the Opposition- with the level of foreign ownership we see a complete incapacity on their part to understand that companies employ people not out of thin air but out of profits. We also see a complete incapacity on the part of the Opposition to understand that high levels of taxation have a disincentive effect on both corporations and individuals. Most significantly of all, we see the complete hypocrisy on the part of that union- as the honourable member for Lilley indicated- in that the level of inflation in relation to its union dues over the past 3V4 years has been extremely high, whereas the record of this Government, so far as inflation is concerned, bears extraordinarily favourable consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 30 April 1979 there were (a) 5 temporary and (b) 856 permanent staff located at the Australian Taxation Office at 126 Church Street, Parramatta, NSW. 
-The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is yes, I am aware of those problems. It is worth taking the opportunity to note that the problems that are being experienced by some local government authorities in raising the money that they want for their activities are a symptom of the expansion in recent years of the demands that the public sector is making on capital markets in Australia for funds. The difficulties experienced by local government authorities are but one feature of a much greater difficulty, that is, the size of the public sector borrowing requirement. Those in the community who believe that our concern about the size of deficits is just a technical and fanciful concern, that they have no real economic impact, ought to understand that the ever-increasing demands that governments make on capital markets in Australia have a very adverse effect on the private interest rate structure. To the extent that governments can make decisions to reduce the demands that they make on capital markets for funds, the better it will be so far as economic conditions generally and private interest rate structures are concerned. We have taken a number of measures. Both the Commonwealth and the State, through the Loan Council, agreed only 10 days ago to an increase in the semi-government rate. 
It ought also to be observed that the wholly desirable increase in the availability of funds for housing from the savings banks has had some impact upon the capacity of those banks to service the requirements of local government authorities. To the extent that we divert funds from one area within the banking system to another we naturally impair the capacity of that system to service the areas from which the funds are diverted. They are only some of the problems. I think it is very much an overall question of the size of the demand that governments make on the available funds in the capital market. That simple economic reality has to be grasped and has to be driven home as frequently as possible. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains further measures designed to counter income tax avoidance practices. It covers four main areas of avoidance that were referred to in my announcements of 24 September 1978, 3 October 1978 and 1 March 1979. With the introduction of this Bill, all proposals for action against specific schemes of tax avoidance foreshadowed in announcements by me will have received legislative form. However, it is not to be inferred that this is the end of the matter. The Government will continue its fight against tax avoidance schemes along lines that have now become well established. In addition, as I have said already, examination of possible changes to the general anti-avoidance provision contained in section 260 is proceeding. 
Taking the present amendments in the order in which they appear in the Bill, the first gives effect to the proposal announced on 3 October 1978 relating to tax avoidance through modifications of the so-called 'Curran' schemes. The second is concerned with commodity trading schemes and the third with share trading schemes that are variations of the schemes in respect of which legislation was enacted last year. The fourth amendment is concerned with expenditure recoupment' schemes that seek to exploit the availability of deductions for expenditure incurred in borrowing money, in discharging a mortgage, in the acquisition of trading stock, or in respect of a liability to pay interest or rent. The last three amendments were foreshadowed in my announcements of 24 September 1978 and 1 March 1979.  (Quorum formed). 
Modified Curran Schemes 
In my statement of 3 October 1978, 1 said that tax scheme promoters were marketing modifications of the so-called Curran Schemes which they claimed were not caught by the amendments made last year. The Government advice is that the scheme is caught, but it cannot afford to take the risk. As was the case with the original scheme, the modified version depends for its success on a non-taxable issue of bonus shares. However, the bonus issue is paid out of a share premium account created solely for the purpose of the scheme, instead of out of capital profits reserves. The amendments made last year were clearly intended to cover such schemes, but promoters of the modified schemes argue that, for very technical reasons, they are not within the scope of the earlier amendments. The Commissioner of Taxation will be contesting this interpretation of the effect of the earlier amendments, but the Government has decided that it is necessary to guard against the eventuality of an adverse court decision and is, for this purpose, introducing a declaratory amendment. 
The amendment will apply in respect of bonus shares allotted after 3 October 1978. At the same time, should it be held by the courts that the earlier amendments are defective, any artificial tax deductible losses arising from schemes based on the Curran decision, where bonus shares were allotted after 7 April 1978, will not be available for carry-forward beyond the 1978-79 income year. The date 7 April 1978 is of course that on which legislation to counter the Curran Schemes was introduced in the parliament. 
Commodity Trading Schemes 
The second group of amendments contained in the Bill will give effect to my announcement of 24 September 1978 to expand the scope of antiavoidance measures enacted last year to counter schemes that rely on the special provisions of the income tax law that apply to transfers of trading stock. Those provisions, which are contained in section 36 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, require a taxpayer who disposes of trading stock otherwise than in the ordinary course of business- including a transfer of trading stock to a partnership in which the transferor is a partner- to bring the market value of the stock to account in assessable income and for this value to be taken as the purchase price paid by the transferee. 
Honourable members will recall that last year amendments were made to section 36 to deal with tax avoidance schemes that used these special provisions to generate artificial losses on the transfer of trading stock consisting of shares, debentures or other choses in action. In effect, those amendments authorised the Commissioner of Taxation to fix the transfer value for taxation purposes on a commercially-realistic basis, having regard to guidelines set out in the law. The amendments proposed in this Bill will extend the scope of the earlier measures so as to counter schemes of the same general character, involving other forms of trading stock such as precious metals, antiques and fine art. The scope of the earlier amendments will be widened so as to include all trading stock and related property that is covered by section 36 of the Income Tax Assessment Act.  (Quorum formed). 
-The Bill also proposes amendments to section 36A of the Income Tax Assessment Act that are consequential upon those being made to section 36. This is being done to close off avenues that may otherwise be available to scheme promoters to exploit the election provisions of section 36A so as to frustrate the intention to widen the scope of the antiavoidance provision of section 36. This amendment to section 36A, along with another more technical change concerning items that in legal terms are described as choses in action, will apply in relation to a notice of an election under the section given after today, unless it can be established that the change in ownership or interests occurred on or before today. 
Share Trading Losses 
In my statement of 24 September 1978 I mentioned that there were further schemes designed to fall beyond the reach of other amendments to the income tax law enacted early in 1978. Those 1978 amendments were intended to ensure that deductions under the general deduction provisions for purchases of trading stock in the form of shares and other choses in action do not exceed the trader's real commercial outlays. One such scheme involves a company issuing shares at a premium to a trustee of a trust in which a beneficiary is a trader in shares. The trustee borrows the funds to pay for these shares from a finance company controlled by the promoter of the scheme. Arrangements are then made for most of the shares to be vested in the beneficiary who treats them as an accretion to trading stock and claims to be entitled to an 'imputed deduction' for the value of the shares. The company then makes a bonus issue of shares from the share premium account on the few remaining shares held in trust and these shares are transferred to the finance company in repayment of the original loan. 
The issue of the bonus shares by the company causes the shares owned by the beneficiary share trader to fall substantially in value and the beneficiary would then claim, despite not having suffered any commercial loss at all, to be entitled to a tax deduction for the difference between the sale price and the 'imputed' cost. The amendments proposed in this Bill will make it clear that the law dealing with share trading losses under the general deduction provisions, as enacted early in 1978, is to apply where a deduction is sought for losses or outgoings not involving actual expenditure. 
The Bill also proposes to put beyond doubt that all losses or outgoings in relation to the acquisition of shares, whether incurred on application, allotment or by way of call or premium, come within the scope of those provisions. This further amendment is to counter schemes promoted on the basis that if shares, when issued, are paid up to only a nominal extent, say one cent per share, and the balance of the capital and a substantial premium, say $99.99, is payable by way of call, the call moneys are not within the scope of the present law. These amendments will apply in relation to relevant property purchased or acquired after 24 September 1978, but a more technical amendment of the provisions, not previously foreshadowed, will apply only after today. This concerns the meaning to be given to the reference in the existing law to choses in action. 
Expenditure Recoupment Schemes 
The remaining provisions of the Bill will implement proposals I announced on 24 September 1978 to deal with 'expenditure recoupment schemes'. These are schemes in which expenditure is incurred as part of a tax avoidance arrangement that results in the receipt by the taxpayer or an associate of a compensatory benefit, the value of which, when added to the tax saving arising from the deduction, more than effectively recoups the taxpayer for the expenditure so that no real loss or outgoing is suffered. 
As I said in my statement of 24 September 1978 the amendments proposed by this Bill will deny a deduction for expenditure incurred in discharging a mortgage, in the acquisition of trading stock, or by way of interest or rent, where the expenditure is incurred after 24 September 1978 under a tax avoidance agreement of this type that is entered into after that date. As I said in my statement of 1 March 1979, the provisions will also apply in respect of expenditure incurred in borrowing money under a tax avoidance agreement of this type. 
Let me here emphasise a point. I warned in my statement of 24 September that if further expenditure recoupment schemes were to emerge, the Government would, with effect from that date, act against them as outlined in that statement. My statement of 1 March 1979 is in earnest of that intent and I say again that the Government is determined to stamp out tax avoidance schemes in which taxpayers seek deductions for expenditure which, in a practical sense, they do not bear. I hope, for the sake of those taxpayers who may be contemplating paying fees to promoters to 'buy' deductions under such schemes, that this message is getting through. I do not think that I need spell out further the various types of expenditure recoupment schemes at which the Bill is directed, or the complex arrangements that are made under these schemes. 
Honourable members may obtain that sort of detail from the explanatory memorandum accompanying the Bill. It is probably sufficient for me to say that the Bill is directed at expenditure recoupment schemes that have been devised to exploit deductions ordinarily available under section 67, section 67A or section 5 1 in respect of the purchase of trading stock or a hability for interest or rent. But as I say, the Government intends to act on my 24 September warning. 
The major part of the Bill is concerned with countering tax avoidance under expenditure recoupment schemes and, unfortunately, it is both lengthy and complex. It would be idle to expect that this length and complexity will not be criticised. However, as I have said before it is extremely difficult to avoid complexity and length where the aim is to counter arrangements that are in themselves highly artificial and complex unless there is resort to very broad provisions incorporating wide discretionary powers to deal with particular situations. I might also note that much of the complexity arises from the necessity to cover the various situations that in practice occur. For example, the legislation must cater for cases in which a taxpayer participates in more than one expenditure recoupment scheme and where the taxpayer's participation is in his or her own right or through a partnership or trust. It has also been necessary to provide for those schemes that take more than one year to implement, and for situations in which a taxpayer's activities for a year have resulted in a loss. There may be a number of combinations of these different eventualities and they have had to be catered for.  Mr Speaker,  the Government does not seek the passage of this Bill until the Budget sittings. As I have indicated in respect of earlier Bills directed at tax avoidance schemes, I see an advantage in introducing a Bill and delaying its passage so that provisions giving effect to earlier announcements are available for study by interested members of the public and the Parliament before being debated by the Parliament. The Government is ready to examine any constructive comments that might be made about technical features of the legislation after it has been examined by interested parties. It is because the Government is not seeking passage in these sittings that the Bill is titled (No. 4). A (No. 3) Bill to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act, and relating to valuation boards, will be introduced shortly with a view to passage in the current sittings. Details of the various provisions of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence to add to an answer I gave to a question from the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi). 
-The Government and I are concerned about the level of increase in food prices which was published today. There is no point in anybody's disguising his disappointment that such a very important component of the consumer price index has risen by the largest amount since 1973. The facts speak for themselves. How the honourable member for Gellibrand relates an increase in food prices to actions taken in the last Budget, which the latter part of his question seems to imply, completely escapes me. Of course, there is a number of cost pressures in the Australian community at present. Some of them are the result of movements in commodity prices which are good news to the producers of those commodities and for 
Australia's balance of payments. They are long overdue increases. Nonetheless, they have a very significant impact on the consumer price index. What this means, of course,  is  that the Government must sustain, even redouble, the efforts that it is taking in the monetary and fiscal policy area to ensure that maximum downward pressure continues to be exerted on inflation. 
-I will take the last part of the honourable member's question first. I have seen some reports that suggest there are certain tax avoidance consequences as a result of the abolition of gift duty. I remind the honourable member that the great bulk of the abolition of gift duty took effect back in November 1977, not from 1 July this year. So if the consequences to which he is referring are correct, perhaps they would have been observable by now. I doubt the figure that the honourable member cites. There are obviously some consequences in terms of revenue diversion as a result of the abolition of gift duty. I doubt very strongly whether it is the figure that he has cited. Of course, the Opposition has a terrific track record when it comes to taking action against tax avoidance. It is quite fascinating that members of the Opposition continue to drag the issue of tax avoidance into questions on the overall area of taxes. I do not mind if the honourable member for Burke, the Leader of the Opposition or the honourable member for Gellibrand want to keep asking me questions about tax avoidance. I will be delighted to answer as many questions as they like to ask me. 
So far as the other matters in the honourable member's question are concerned, I inform him, in case he was away when the Leader of the Opposition asked me similar questions, that I have nothing to add to what I have previously said on the subject of the 1  Vi  per cent increase and tax indexation. 
-The honourable member for Hawker has asked me really two separate questions. I will deal first with the question about financial institutions. I think it is regrettable that the honourable member for Hawker inferred that shareholders and debenture holders in Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd have lost or are under threat of losing money. That is not the case. On my understanding of the situation I specifically repudiate the suggestion contained in the honourable member's question. I think it is extremely regrettable that he should have made it. So far as VIP Insurances Ltd is concerned, there have been investigations into the circumstances surrounding its collapse. Much of the investigation into the alleged misconduct of people concerned with VIP Insurances was of course the responsibility of the New South Wales Government and the New South Wales Corporate Affairs - 
-I am not suggesting for a moment that the New South Wales Government has not done its job because on this occasion there was significant evidence to justify the investigation by the New South Wales Government. I am glad that the honourable member does not dissent from what I have said. The second question raised by the honourable member concerns the allegation that in some way the Government's activities regarding tax avoidance are being hampered by staff ceilings. That has been the subject of discussion between the Commissioner of Taxation and me on a number of occasions over the past several months and, whilst no section of the Public Service ought to be totally immune from a policy of staff ceilings, I can say to the honourable member that there have been increases in the staffing levels in the Taxation Office. I am satisfied that no significant damage is being done to the anti-tax-avoidance activities of the Commissioner of Taxation. Indeed, if any evidence comes to my knowledge or the knowledge of the Government that the Taxation Office is being hampered by the present staff ceilings, something will be done about it. This is a classic example of people trying to jump on to the bandwagon. The honourable member for Hawker and the honourable member for Chifley both sat on the back bench when the Whitlam Government was in office, but for the 18 months that I was here while they were members of the Government back bench they never raised a squeak about tax avoidance. 
-I am aware of the attitude, and it appears to be the final attitude, taken by the South Australian Government in the Santos matter. 
-I think that it is a matter of regret. I have already made the attitude of the Federal Government clear and I will repeat it for the benefit of the honourable member for Port Adelaide who may be under some misapprehension about it. In terms of the reputation of this country for foreign investment, I think that the South Australian Government's decision is very damaging. In the eyes of many people, it amounts to a confiscatory action by the South Australian Government. It is precisely the sort of action on the part of a State government which creates a reluctance on the part not only of overseas industries but also of people inside this country to invest in that particular State. I think that the great majority of people in South Australia, irrespective of their political allegiance, want to see the maximum incentive for industry in South Australia. This is not the sort of action by governments which will encourage industry into a country. It is the sort of action that sits very poorly with the expressed statements of the South Australian Premier and the Minister for Mines and Energy in South Australia. I state this as a mattter of principle and repeat that any action by a State government, irrespective of its political allegiance, which demonstrates the degree of commercial provincialism which this decision demonstrates, does not help the cause of investment, either in Australia or in that particular State. 
This matter of public importance is about, inevitably, the comparative taxation records of the Government and the Opposition. I welcome the opportunity to respond to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  on the question of taxation. I will welcome at any time between now and the next election and during the next election the opportunity to debate the question of taxation with the Leader of the Opposition. I will be more than happy to draw comparisons between the taxation record of this Government in the time that it has been in office and the taxation record of the former Labor Government when it was in office and the likely taxation performance of a Labor government led by the honourable member for Oxley with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  as Treasurer. 
Honourable members should note that the two speakers from the Opposition in this debate, the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand, are responsible for the economic statements of a party which still believes that one of the first obligations of a re-elected Labor government will be to go about persuading the Australian people that they ought to be prepared to pay much higher taxation in order to rebuild the public sector. There is no argument about that. That is not my charge. It is not my fanciful allegation. Those words were used by the honourable member for Gellibrand when he was addressing the Labor Economists Conference in Brisbane only a few months ago. He said that on the quite realistic assumption that the Labor Party would not be elected to government at the very earliest before 1983, one of its first jobs would be to go about persuading the Australian people that much higher taxation was needed in order to pay for an expanded public sector. The Leader of the Opposition still leads a party which, when last in government, believed fundamentally that its vast public expenditure programs could be financed through the huge and automatic impact of a progressive taxation scale in a time of high inflation. The then leader promised the Australian people that that was what would occur in December 1972 if a Labor government were elected. 
The most important things to keep in mind when talking about taxation are the fundamentally different philosophies between this side of politics and the other side so far as the size of government is concerned and, as a consequence, the size of the taxation burden. Even the Leader of the Opposition and his economic followers know as well as I do that the capacity of a government to provide transfer payments, to provide public services and to function as a government is related directly to the revenue raising effort it is prepared to undertake and the revenue raising effort that the community is prepared to put up with. The fact of the matter is that we on this side of the House have demonstrated, whatever the test, that we believe in smaller government, we believe in making less demands on the community through taxation and imposts and we believe in giving to the individual in society a greater capacity to make decisions as to how he or she will dispose of his or her individual income. The first thing to remember when debating taxation policies of the Labor Party and the Liberal and National Country Parties is that we have a fundamentally different approach to the size of government. The Labor Party believes in high taxation because it believes in big and meddling government. The two parties have a fundamentally different approach to government. Over the past 3 years a number of changes have been made to our taxation system. I do not claim for a moment that the taxation system that we have at present is perfect. It is anything but perfect. It still contains a large number of anomalies both as to the actual levels of taxation and also as to the structure of taxation. 
This Government has attempted a number of quite fundamental reforms. Honourable members will remember that when we came to government there were seven steps in the progressive rates scale; there are now three. That particular reform is of very major significance itself. It has meant that a person on average weekly earnings can earn in the order of $5,000 additional income through overtime or a second job without being moved from the basic taxation rate into the intermediate taxation rate, whereas under the old scheme if a person earned something in the order of $2,500 extra he or she passed immediately from the lowest taxation rate into the next step in the progressive taxation scale. That is one of the reforms we have undertaken which has made a major change to the incentive for people on low and modest incomes to undertake further work, to expend further effort, to undertake overtime and to take on second jobs. It is an illustration of the commitment of this Government through taxation changes and through taxation reform to give a greater sense of incentive to the individual. Nothing that the Leader of the Opposition can say, nothing that the honourable member for Gellibrand can say and nothing that anybody on the other side of the House can say during this debate will alter the fact that if the Hayden rate scales had been in place now this Government would be collecting $3,000m more in tax in 1 978-79. 
Opposition members will interject. They will squeal and they will squirm, and they will not like what I say, but the fact of the matter is that I have given the sheer hard statistics. 
It was $3,000m more in 1978-79. Nothing that the Leader of the Opposition can say can alter that fact. The standard response of the honourable member for Gellibrand to that charge- I have mentioned it before and I mention it again because the Labor Party keep bringing up these matters of public importance dealing with taxation- is: 'Oh well, if we had stayed in government we would have indexed taxation. We would have altered the rates. We would not have kept the rate scales as they were'. The fact of the matter is that when the Labor Party went out of office it was not its policy to alter those rate scales. When it went out of government it had not given any commitment to make any changes to those rate scales. It was not until some time later that the Opposition realised, rather belatedly, that changes by the present Government were the sorts of changes that should have been made. Nothing that the Leader of the Opposition, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  or the honourable member for Gellibrand can say will alter that very simple statistical fact. 
Nothing can alter the other very simple fact that notwithstanding the grandiose things that were said by the then Leader of the Opposition at Blacktown in 1972, such as: 'We will end the tax lurks,' nothing whatever was done by the then Labor Government to end the tax lurks in this country. It is a source of endless amazement to me that the Opposition, the champion of the pay-as-you-earn taxpayer, the champion of the battler, the little bloke who has his tax deducted each week without option, when it was in government did nothing about tax avoidance. It is only in recent months that this Government, in a way that no other government has since the World War II, has cracked down on tax avoidance, and it will continue to crack down on it. It is only because we have done something about it that the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Gellibrand and other spokesmen for the Labor Party have decided that it is about time that they got on the tax avoidance bandwagon. Of course, having failed to do anything effective while it was in government, the Labor Party is now trying to exhort the Government to take more action against tax avoidance. 
Honourable members on the Government side and the Australian people know that it is the Fraser Government that has done something about tax avoidance. For the first time since the World War II, it is the Liberal and National Country Parties that have made a concerted attack on the inequities of tax avoidance. It will be ever to the credit of this Government that it has done more in that area to protect the take home pay of the average taxpayer in Australia than was ever done by the Labor Party. Let us hear nothing more from the Opposition Leader or Opposition spokesmen about tax avoidance. They sound extremely hollow. 
Of course, the Leader of the Opposition acknowledges that gift and estate duty ought to be abolished. This Government has done something constructive about it. The Leader of the Opposition rails about the Utah company. The Opposition seems to have a fixation about a company which has been extraordinarily successful and which has exploited in a most economic fashion the vast coal resources of Australia. Of course, what the Leader of the Opposition did not say was that Utah pays about $50m a year in wages, that it employs a large number of Australians and that it pays about $60m in Queensland rail freights. Of course, the Leader of the Opposition does not mention that. All he talks about are the profits that Utah makes. The Opposition still has an eternal hang-up about profits. It still does not like profits. It still cannot grasp the simple economic fact that when companies make profits they have a greater capacity to employ people and to pay taxation. 
What the Leader of the Opposition did not say was that Utah pays about $200m in taxes. He did not mention that. There is supposedly something wrong with that. He would have us believe that Utah pays no tax at all. He did not mention that this Government has introduced a branch profits tax to prevent a larger remittance of profits by Utah to the United States of America. Of course, the Leader of the Opposition does not mention those facts. He tries to have us believe that because the company makes large profits and because we have not imposed all the taxes that he would like us to impose, it follows as a natural consequence that that company is getting away absolutely scot-free. He does not recognise the royalties paid by companies such as Utah, the company tax paid by them, the freight charges that are borne by them, the wages bills they bear and the number of people they employ. It is about time that this House was treated to a more objective examination of precisely what are the realities of the profit levels of these very large companies in Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition also did not treat us to a comparison of the level of tax collections that have occurred in Australia over the past few years. I would have thought that a person talking about which government has taken the most in taxation- and that is essentially what the Leader of the Opposition's matter of public importance is all about- would have had a look at a set of statistics called 'Personal Income Tax Collections'. Copies are readily obtainable. They are official statistics. They show personal income tax collections between 1968-69 and 1978-79, the current financial year. In 1971-72 there was an increase of 11.4 per cent over the previous year. In 1972-73, the last year of the LiberalCountry Party Government, there was an increase of 2.4 per cent over the previous year. In 1973-74 there was an increase of 20.1 per cent over the previous financial year. In 1 974-75 there was an increase of 19.9 per cent. In 1975-76 the increase was 3.5 per cent; in 1 976-77 it was 7.6 per cent; and in 1977-78 it was 0.5 per cent. In 1978-79, for the first time, it is projected that there will be a fall of 0.3 per cent in the real level of personal income tax collections in Australia. If that fall eventuates, and the evidence is that it will eventuate, it will be the first fall in the level of real income tax collections in this country over the past 10 years. I would have thought that to someone comparing personal taxation collections made by various governments in Australia those statistics would not have been a bad guide or a bad indication of what this Government has done about taxation. 
If the Opposition is not satisfied with that illustration, let us go to the most recent Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development figures, which show that Australia ranks seventeenth out of 23 countries in taxation collections as a percentage of gross domestic product. They show that on that basis taxation collections are 6 per cent less in Australia than in the United Kingdom and West Germany. They are almost the same in Australia as they are in the United States of America. Of course, they are of the order of 20 per cent less in Australia than they are in socialist, welfare-state-ridden Sweden. That gives a good idea of the comparative taxation performance of this country under this Government. This Government is happy at any time to debate its taxation records and taxation performance with the Opposition. Our record stands very fairly and squarely as evidence of this Government's philosophical commitment to smaller government. 
I can assure the honourable member for Sturt that in reaching decisions on Budget and, of course, taxation matters- there is nothing quite so fundamental to budgetary decision-making as the decisions one makes on taxation- the Government will take into account the impact of not only revenue matters but also expenditure matters on Australia's families. I think the record of this Government over the past three and a half years in paying regard to the welfare of Australian families in its Budget decision-making and in looking to the interests of Australian families compares very favourably with the record of any government since Federation. In relation to the type and structure of Australia's taxation system, the honourable gentleman's question invites a very general response because there are, as the honourable gentleman knows, different views in the community about our taxation system. He knows that 
I have, on a number of occasions, expressed certain views about the comparative position of single income families. These views are not the views that may be universally shared by everybody in the community. But what I can say to the honourable gentleman is that the Australian taxation system is one which must remain under very close and continuous study and that this and any other government must strive continuously to achieve even greater levels of equity and fairness within our taxation system. 
I want to say quite plainly in reply to the honourable member for Adelaide, that I reject the interpretation that he has wrongly placed on the role of the Reserve Bank of Australia in this matter. The role of the Reserve Bank has been one in which in every respect it has responsibly discharged its responsibilities as the central bank in the Australian banking system. What the Reserve Bank and the other trading banks in Australia did in relation to the Bank of Adelaide demonstrated the essential strength and responsibility of the Australian banking system. The Reserve Bank acted in a way which served the interests of the Australian financial system, the shareholders and the creditors of the Bank of Adelaide and of the Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd. The honourable member for Adelaide, by his statements, attempts to impugn the commercial judgment of people involved, closer to the events than he clearly is.  His  remarks show an abysmal lack of understanding of what is involved and they also show an abysmal lack of concern for the interests of the shareholders of FCA and the Bank of Adelaide. I think that the honourable member for Adelaide demonstrates a total misunderstanding of the situation and the interests of the people of South Australia whom he is elected here to serve. 
The honourable gentleman is correct in saying that the consummation of the offer by ANZ to the Bank of Adelaide will amount to a contraction of the number of banks in the Australian system. The answer to the first part of the question is yes. Such a reference is already included in the terms of reference of the Campbell committee. The second part of the question related to whether I would consider allocating the licence of the Bank of Adelaide, to which the honourable member referred, to another organisation. The attitude of the Government to the entry of other organisations and other banks into the Australian system ought to be stated in general principle rather than explained by reference to a particular situation. The attitude taken by successive Australian governments has been to restrict the granting of banking licences to foreign banks. That has been the attitude recognised by banks over a number of years. I can only say that there are some very good reasons why that policy has been adhered to over the years by governments of different persuasions and that very good reasons would have to be given before that policy were departed from. 
Having said that, I also say that the Government and I do not have a closed mind on the subject of granting licences to new and foreign banks. I do not believe that we ought to have a closed mind about that, particularly as this matter will come under surveillance and examination by the Campbell Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System. I think the need to retain an open mind about the policy that has been followed up to date is strengthened by the fact that as a result of the likely merger of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd with the Bank of Adelaide the number of competitors in the Australian banking system, in the words of the honourable member, will be contracted to a very considerable extent. In a general sense, the answer to the honourable member's query is that whilst there has been a policy to which we have had very good reasons to adhere in the past, the Government does not have a closed mind about the matter. We will be interested in what the Campbell committee has to say about it. Obviously specific applications have to be dealt with on their individual merits. 
-The answer to the first pan of the honourable gentleman's question is yes. The answer to the second part of the question is thatI invite the honourable gentleman to stay around for a few hours. 
-by leave- 
-Members of the Opposition have the temerity to interject that the Government has not done much in this area. The honourable member for Paterson asks me whether my attention has been drawn to these advertisements. My attention is regularly drawn to these advertisements and the contents of these advertisements are of course very carefully perused and studied by the Taxation Office and by the Treasury. I think that many honourable members- I hope on both sides of the House but certainly on this side- are concerned about the blatant forms of advertising of many tax avoidance schemes. However, I would have to say to the honourable member that notwithstanding my own very strong revulsion at the widespread advertising of tax avoidance schemes, I do have some conceptual difficulty with the proposition that if in a strict sense it is legal to do something it also ought to be legal to advertise it. I know the honourable member may find many exceptions to that general rule but in all honesty I would have to say to him that I do find some difficultly with the proposition that the Government should declare illegal the advertising of practices which of themselves are not illegal under the provisions of the law. I think the honourable gentleman is well aware of what this Government has done over the past two years to restore the basic equity of the taxation system through reducing levels of tax avoidance. 
-We have done things in the taxation area that the Labor Government was not prepared to do - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding). 
I am aware of a campaign by the National Party in Queensland to raise money. I cannot tell the honourable member for Griffith or any other honourable member the precise status of that campaign under the Income Tax Assessment Act without obtaining some advice. In any event, ultimately opinions on the Income Tax Assessment Act are not matters for Treasurers or other Ministers to give; they are matters upon which people should obtain their own legal counsel. As far as the Government and I are concerned the National Party of Queensland or any other branch of a political party in Australia will not be given any privilege under the tax law. 
The honourable gentleman will be aware that when the changes were made in the 1978 Budget-the 40 per cent-$20 arrangements- they involved a very significant increase in the amount of the direct Commonwealth subsidy for health care. In those circumstances any suggestions that there should be an adjustment regarding the consumer price index were entirely inappropriate. 
-I do not recall offhand sufficient details of the matter to be able to answer the honourable gentleman's question. I will investigate it. For the moment, I will treat the question as being on notice and I  will  give the honourable gentleman a detailed response as soon as I have conducted that investigation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as  follows: 
1 ) As from 1 July 1979 revenues received by Aboriginal groups from exploration or mining operations on Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory or elsewhere will be taxed on the basis of a 32 per cent rate of tax applied to 20 per cent of gross revenues. This gives an effective rate of 6.4 per cent. 
Incomes derived by States are not generally subject to Commonwealth income tax and, in keeping with that principle, mining royalties levied by States including the Northern Territory are not subject to Commonwealth income tax. There are some circumstances in which private land owners are entitled to mineral royalties. In those cases private citizens in receipt of income by way of mining royalties are generally subject to income tax on that income. 
Aboriginal Land Councils can be expected to devote part of the expected revenues they will receive from the mining of Aboriginal land to community advancement projects. 
There is nothing unusual in the taxing of income derived by non-government land holders by way of payments for the use of land for mining or exploration purposes. However, the tax rate referred to in ( 1 ) above was determined after taking into account that some of the revenues concerned would be expended for Aboriginal community purposes. Other taxpayers in effect meet part of the costs of community projects from which they benefit out of their after-tax income, to the extent that they are paid for by local government authorities out of rates which they collect. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As I said in my statement to the House of Representatives on 8 June 1978 on the review of foreign investment policy, a foreign company which wishes to become a naturalising company must, among other things, make a public commitment to increase Australian equity to 5 1 per cent and hold regular discussions with the Foreign Investment Review Board on progress towards achieving this objective, but the Government does not believe that it would be realistic to impose a strict time-table because of commercial considerations outside the company 's control. 
I also stated that a company wishing to naturalise would be required to reach an understanding with the Government on the practical arrangements for achieving the required level of Australian ownership and that companies would be expected to move towards this objective primarily by way of new share issues to Australians to fund new projects and expansions, rather than by the takeover of existing businesses. 
CRA has made such a public commitment and will hold regular discussions with the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
I am informed that the Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Limited held a 90. 1 per cent interest in CRA in 1 962 and that this had been reduced to 72.6 per cent at the beginning of 1979. A recently announced share issue by CRA is expected to reduce RTZ's interest to 68.2 per cent. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eight officers are fully engaged in examining all aspects of the returns of multi-national oil companies, including the purchase prices of imported crude oil and petroleum products. 
No. 
and (4) The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that, because of the secrecy provisions contained in the Income Tax Assessment Act, he is unable to provide this information. The Commissioner has pointed out, however, that companies engaged in importing and marketing oil products are not required by law to do more than furnish in their income tax returns details of the actual prices paid for trading stock. When the Commissioner, in the exercise of discretionary powers under section 136, substitutes for these his estimate of what would have had to be paid in an arm 's length trading situation, his action does not carty an implication that the returns lodged by the taxpayers were designed to mislead or to provide less than a full and true disclosure of all the facts required by law to be disclosed. 
In recent weeks there has been speculation in the Press as to what the budgetary outcome for 1978-79 might be as compared with the forecast made in August of last year. My colleague the Minister for Finance has already indicated that, on the basis of expenditure decisions that have been taken since the last Budget and very minor areas of additional expenditure that were not specifically anticipated or decided upon, there would be an estimated addition of approximately $230m to outlays, which constitutes 0.8 of one per cent and which, in an overall spending amount of about $29,000m, is an extremely small area of overspending. 
The latest estimates that I have been given by the Treasury and the Taxation Office indicate that the revenue will fall short of the Budget target by about $500m, and that this amount is made up as follows: about $70m shortfall for Customs duty; about $46m shortfall for payasyouearn collections; about $200m shortfall for provisional tax collections; and about $200 m shortfall for company tax collections. My advice is that about $ 180m of the shortfall of $400m for company and provisional tax collections has been accounted for by the incidence of tax avoidance arrangements. I mention these figures firstly in the interests of providing factual information on what is the advice to me as to the current position. 
-Would the honourable member mind containing his impatience? We will come to that in a moment. The purpose of providing this information is simply to put an end to any speculation about the advice that is coming to me on the subject. I stress again that at this stage these are estimates of what the position will be at the end of the current financial year. A great deal can happen in the last month of a financial year in terms of revenue collections. If the scenario I painted in fact does occur, then the deficit outcome will be in the order of $3,500m. I should mention that the estimated revenue shortfall of about $500m is less than 2 per cent in a total revenue collection situation of about $26,000m. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

It has nothing to do with levels of taxation. It has to do with people who may be interested in what the deficit situation is. I think it is significant, in the context of the decisions announced last Thursday, that those people on the Opposition side of the House and in the community who might argue that the Government had all of the facts to hand in order to make decisions for next year's Budget are completely wrong. The fact of the matter is that revenue estimates can vary, for thoroughly explicable reasons, and particularly at this time of the year they can vary by several hundred million dollars. 
I repeat to the House that the latest information I have is the information I have just given. It is quite possible that those revenue collections could alter between now and the end of the financial year. I think the element of tax avoidance which is contained in that additional figure of $500m underlines the outrage on the Government side of the House at the level of tax avoidance that is practised in the community and will very much strengthen the determination of this Government to pursue an even more vigorous attack on tax avoidance in the Australian community. 
-The short answer to the first part of the question asked by the honourable member for Darling Downs is yes. The new federalism arrangements of the present government which have given to the States both increased financial flexibility and increased financial resources also carry with them increased financial responsibility. Federalism cuts both ways. It means more power and independence for the States but it also means more responsibility for the States. It also means a fair sharing of national economic burdens. So far as the attitude of this Government at the next Premiers Conference is concerned, naturally we will be making it plain at that Conference that national economic goals are to be striven for by both Commonwealth and State governments because Commonwealth and State governments share alike in both the benefits and the adversities of changing economic circumstances. 
I have to say to the honourable gentleman in all candour that in a number of significant areas the States have not followed the lead set by the Commonwealth Government. It is a matter of regret that, whereas the levels of employment under Commonwealth Public Service jurisdiction have declined during this Government's, term of office, in the case of a number of State governments the levels have sharply increased. The levels have also sharply increased so far as a number of local governments are concerned. The fact is that under our revenue sharing arrangements the States will receive an increase of 14 per cent, so far as untied funds are concerned, in 1979-80. I make it plain to the honourable gentleman, and to the House, that this Government sees federalism as carrying both responsibilities and privileges. In its approach to the States the Commonwealth Government will not follow a course of conduct which imposes a lesser burden of restraint upon the States than that which the Commonwealth Government imposes upon its own programs and activities. 
As the honourable member for Bonython knows, throughout both this year and last year questions have been asked of the Government about progress and current estimates about the size of the deficit. Persons along with the Minister for Finance who, in the first instance, receive advice from departments regarding the size of the deficit, give answers on the basis of the information then available. Any answers that have been given either by myself or by the Prime Minister over the past six or nine months about the size of the Budget deficit from time to time are based on the information currently available. The information that I gave to the House yesterday is the latest information available. Equally, statements that I have previously made have been based on information that was then available. If the honourable member for Bonython knows anything about the course of trying during the year to estimate the outcome of the Budget deficit he knows very well that there will be fluctuations and variations. The most important area in which there is likely to be a revenue shortfall this year is in provisional tax and company tax. He knows as well as I do that it is not until the last four months of a year that it is possible to make any more finely tuned estimates about how company and provisional taxes are going. So really the question is a bit of a nonsense. 
On present indications there will be a shortfall in the revenue estimate so far as the excise on spirits is concerned. As to the precise extent, we will have to await the final figures. It could be close to what the honourable member has said. The Government is obviously disappointed that there looks like being a shortfall. I can assure the honourable member that we will take into account what is involved in that result. 
My attention has been drawn to the recent index which is entitled 'The Price Index of materials used in Manufacturing Industry'. For the 12-month period up to the time it was released, it records an increase of over 30 per cent. This is a very large increase and is the source of some concern to the Government. However, I think honourable members ought to be aware that this index contains, as to 47 per cent of its composition, agricultural products, of which meat is a very large proportion. Whilst I am not in any way casting any doubt whatsoever on the statistical accuracy of the inputs of this index, I think the very strong point ought to be made that, given that almost half of it is composed of inputs of agricultural product price rises, of which meat is the major proportion, there must be some serious question as to whether it is really accurately described as a price index of materials used in manufacturing industry. I think that ought to be understood by honourable gentlemen and by the wider community in assessing the real impact and the real significance of the index. 
-I am glad that the Leader of the Opposition has asked me this question. It gives me the opportunity to give some additional facts following those I gave yesterday. As honourable members on both sides of the House know, the really important thing is not only the money size of the deficit but also the relative size of the deficit to gross domestic product. I think it is a self-evident fact that a deficit of $3,500m now is a lower deficit than $3, 500m a few years ago - 
If the honourable member for Wills will contain his economic enthusiasm for a moment I will give him a few more facts. In 1972-73, the last Budget for which the McMahon Government had any responsibility, the deficit as a proportion of GDP was 1.69 per cent. In 1973-74 it was 0.58 per cent. In 1974-75 it rose to 4.23 per cent. 
I repeat, it was 4.23 per cent. In 1975-76 it rose to 5.02 per cent. In 1976-77 there was absolutely blinding restraint and it came back to 3.29 per cent. It rose to 3.68 per cent the following year. This year, on the basis of a $3. 5m outcome, which I said - 
-I am sorry, a $3.5 billion outcome. 
-There is a big difference. This year, on the basis of a $3.5 billion outcome, which yesterday I conceded was quite possible as a percentage of GDP it would represent 3.40 per cent. So in terms of blowouts and in terms of big deficits, the Leader of the Opposition still takes the prize. Let us not get our facts wrong about that. In case it is thought that a revenue shortfall is a creature of the last couple of years, let us also see what has happened to the revenue estimates over the past few years. I do not think that it indicates broken promises, as the Leader of the Opposition misleadingly suggests. It represents a pattern which has some significance insofar as estimating and the level of tax avoidance are concerned. Between 1968 and 1973 total receipts in all cases exceeded the Budget estimates by up to 4 per cent. The reason why they exceeded the Budget estimates by such a large amount in 1 973 was the operation of a rip-roaring rate of inflation on an unindexed taxation scale. That is why they exceeded it by 4 per cent in that year. But in every successive year since then revenue has fallen short of the estimates. In 1974 it fell short by 2.7 per cent; in 1975 it fell short by 4.4 per cent; in 1976-77 it fell short by 1.5 per cent; and last year it fell short by 4 per cent. This year, if my prediction of yesterday is correct, it will fall short by 2 per cent. I think that those figures are important and that they ought to be borne in mind by the Leader of the Opposition. 
As far as the financing of this year's deficit is concerned, the Leader of the Opposition is quite correct in saying that there has been a greater movement in and out of treasury notes this year and that the non-bank take up this year is significantly lower than it was last year. Quite obviously the money supply prediction in the Budget of last year is going to be exceeded. There are good and proper reasons for that both in terms of the greater growth and the higher than anticipated level of inflation. I have already given the House chapter and verse the reasons for that. The Leader of the Opposition is really engaging in a form of deception in trying to suggest that those matters are in any way related to the question of promises. 
If I were the Leader of the Opposition I would not talk too loudly about the 1975-76 Budget. Let it be remembered that the 1 975-76 Budget deficit was born in the Budget Speech of the honourable gentleman when he was the Treasurer in the Whitlam Government. It was that Budget that this Government took over. It was that Budget which, if this Government had not in early 1976 introduced stringent expenditure restraint, would have resulted in a much larger deficit than the $3,500m which finally turned up in 1975-76. The last part of the honourable gentleman's question was concerned with the percentage of overall public sector borrowing requirements. I will look at the proposition that the honourable gentleman has put. I will have his statistics analysed to see whether there is any truth in what he says. 
The honourable member for Holt raises quite properly the anxiety and concern of the lower income families in our community. I say to the honourable gentleman that the greatest gift that any government can make to low income families in our community or those on the age pension is to have the lowest possible rate of inflation. We ought never to lose sight of the fact that no objective or goal of government can be more important than the controlling and reducing of the cost of living, because the cost of living impacts most severely on those in the community of modest means. The yardstick that should be used to measure the relevance and the equity of government policy should always be the success of the Government in reducing the level of inflation. 
We have deliberately designed our health policies and we have borne in mind, in the recent changes that have been made, the position of low income earners. The Minister for Health has repeated what I said in my statement last Thursday night; that is, that the position of pensioners and those adjudged by their doctors to be of indigent circumstances will not be affected one iota. That ought to be understood, not only by the House but by the community generally. I can assure the honourable gentleman that in considering the Budget the position of low income families, the aged and those in genuine need will be kept very much in mind. 
My attention has been drawn to the comments of the gentleman to whom my colleague has referred about the trading stock valuation adjustment. 
I simply say that my attention has been drawn to them. I will add nothing further to that. The honourable gentleman mentioned the trading stock valuation adjustment. I simply say to him that the Government gave very careful consideration to the impact of its decision on various sections of the business community. I would have to say to him that the Government is conscious that its decision has been seen by some sections of the community as a disappointment. 
I think the House ought to bear in mind that the trading stock valuation adjustment concession was introduced at a time when the level of inflation was very much higher than it is now. It was introduced at a time when, in particular, manufacturing industry in Australia needed a sharp and effective stimulus to improve its profitability position. I think that the trading stock valuation adjustment concession has done a great deal over the past 2 or 3 years to tide Australian manufacturing industry and other sections of Australian industry over an extraordinarily difficult time. I have already mentioned that in the case of a large number of companies the concession was not used in quite the way intended by the Government or by Professor Mathews and his committee of inquiry when it was recommended. 
In regard to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I will look at the report to which he referred about the reduction of the average income of a section of the red wine grape growing industry in the McLaren Vale part of South Australia. The honourable gentleman has displayed a consistent concern about the welfare of those people since he has been a member of this House. I cannot be more specific than to say to the honourable gentleman that, whatever revenue decisions the Government takes in the Budget, the Government will pay very close attention to the effect of these decisions on the whole community and to individual sections of the community. 
-For the information of honourable members I present a policy information paper on natural disaster insurance. The paper follows an announcement on this matter I made on 1 7 January in which I undertook to provide more detailed information on the measures proposed and on the considerations underlying the Government's approach in a policy information paper which would be presented to the Parliament. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
My attention has been drawn to the article in the publication  Taxation in Australia.  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the text of a letter dated 24 April 1979 written by the Commissioner of Taxation to that journal canvassing the concerns that have been expressed about the operations of sections 82KH, 82KJ and 82KK of the Income Tax Assessment Act. If the honourable member for Gellibrand would like the opportunity of perusing the letter before responding to my request, I would be happy for him to do so. There is nothing tricky about wanting to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  It has already been published in the journal. Given the interest of all honourable members in tax avoidance, I am sure that they would like to see it. 
Leave granted.  24 April 1979 
The Editor, Taxation in Australia, 19th Floor, CAGA Building, 8 Bent Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 
Dear  Sir, 
It is not my usual practice to answer the many theoretical analyses of taxation legislation that appear in professional and other journals. I do not regard doing so as serving any good purpose. It has, however, been suggested that, because of widespread concern that is said to exist amongst ordinary taxpayers and their advisers about the scope of section 82KJ of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936,I should make an exception to the general rule and say something about the commissioned study' that appeared in the March issue of your journal. 
The concern said to be being felt by taxpayers and their advisers is, as I understand it, based on the proposition being put by analysts that section 82kj, which deals with so-called  pre-pay ments' schemes of tax avoidance, may create great problems and uncertainties for people engaged in ordinary commercial transactions. I do not think that, when properly interpreted, the provisions have that effect. 
There are two key features of section 82kj which are recognised by your analyst. He accepts that the existence of a tax avoidance agreement is but one of four elements all of which must be found to be present for the provision to have effect. In noting that the words ' at the time ' in paragraph ( b ) are critical he also accepts that the element described in that paragraph relates only, to use his own words, to 'frontending transactions'. With these conclusions I am, of course, in complete agreement. The words 'at the time' are indeed critical and have the effect that the paragraph cannot be applicable, if a pre-payment is lacking, merely because a payment is excessive. I think any real concern that has been generated elsewhere about the possible application of the provision to excessive payments has been due to a failure to recognise this point which is basic to the provision. 
I do not hesitate, however, to take issue with the suggestion by your analyst that ordinary annual plant-lease rentals, e.g., for motor vehicles, could conceivably be caught by the provision. 
I think the best way to dispose of this suggestion is to examine ordinary plant leasing arrangements, otherwise acceptable for income tax purposes, in the light of the four elements that must be found for the provision to be applicable. 
First, can there be detected in such arrangements a 'tax avoidance agreement ' as defined for the purposes of the provision. In my view, clearly not. If the term had been defined in relation to an effect of tax avoidance and not, as it is, in relation to a purpose, there might be something in the argument. But that is not the case and, even if it were, the arrangement would still have a long way to go before it fell foul of section 82KJ. 
The second question to be asked is whether, in an ordinary plant leasing arrangement, there could be said to be a payment of the kind to which paragraph (b) applies, i.e., one made as part of a 'front-ending transaction . With respect, your contributor seems to me to put two arguments which contradict each other. The first proposition appears to be that there is a ' front-ending ' of deductions in a lease arrangement as compared with a hire purchase arrangement. The other appears to be that, because the leased plant is worth less in the later years of the lease than in the earlier, the later lease payments could be non-allowable under section 82KJ even though payments are much the same in amount throughout the term of the lease. 
I could not accept that these arguments are based on a correct interpretation of paragraph (b). In the first place I do not think the paragraph sanctions anything but comparison of like with like; it does not permit a comparison of, for example, payments under a leasing arrangement with depreciation allowances. Secondly, however conservative a Commissioner's views might be as to what is reasonable, surely he or she could not expect to sustain an argument that, in terms of paragraph (b), a payment of the final year's rent for a car under a normal leasing arrangement is greater in amount than what might reasonably be expected to have been paid at that time if the payment had not been incurred under a (not 'the') tax avoidance arrangement. What is involved I think, with respect, is not a question of a strict temporal relationship between the expenditure and the benefit but one of whether, tax avoidance purposes aside, a payment as great as the particular amount could have been expected to have been incurred at the time that it was. And, in any event, can it be predicated that the benefit constituted by a right to use a car changes over time because the car grows older and depreciates in market value? 
Thirdly, can it be said about a normal plant leasing arrangement that property (the plant) has been, will be or may reasonably be expected to be acquired by the taxpayer or an associate as a result of, by reason of, or as part of, a (supposed) tax avoidance agreement? Surely not. If confronted with a leasing arrangement of that kind I would probably have to consider whether the arrangement ought properly be regarded as a contract to acquire the plant rather than to lease it. If it were a contract of that kind, recourse to section 82kj would not be possible or necessary. Other provisions of the law would apply to disallow payments under the arrangement. Disallowance of the payments would be consistent with advice given and practices followed by previous Commissioners. 
Finally, there is the question of whether the consideration for the acquisition of property- and it has to be property that answers the description in paragraph (c) that I have just spoken about- is or may reasonably be expected to be less than the consideration that might reasonably be expected had the expenditure in question not been incurred. Again, that is not something that one expects to find in a normal leasing arrangement. An arrangement has not been regarded as normal if it provides for a disposal of the subject plant at the end of the lease to be for less than the then current market value of the plant. 
From what I have said, you will appreciate that I do not accept that ordinary leasing of a car or other plant is caught by section  82kj.  To be wrong in that I must be wrong in respect of the applicability of all of the four tests contained in the section. I am sure that this is not the case. On the contrary, I do not think any of the tests would be satisfied by such arrangements. 
Your contributor also raised the question whether section 82kj would deny a deduction for amounts paid as income equalisation deposits, but he notes the difficulty of applying the second test (in paragraph (b)) to a transaction in these securities. 
I think that what I have said earlier is enough to dispose of any real concern that an income equalisation deposit deduction is within the scope of section 82KJ but I would have thought that your analyst himself would also have reached and stated the conclusion that it is not, for he has correctly commented earlier in his analysis that: 'It also seems clear reading the section as a whole that, as foreshadowed by the Treasurer, only two step transactions will be affected, i.e., loss or outgoing combined with an acquisition of property not the subject of the original loss or outgoing.'. Income equalisation deposits do not fit that description. 
Yours faithfully, W. J. O'REILLY Commissioner of Taxation 
-The important thing about this letter is simply to make the point that some concern has been expressed that the sections went too far and affected normal commercial transactions. The Commissioner of Taxation is not a court of law. He is only expressing a point of view and explaining some background of the interpretation of the amendments. I also inform the House that it is the opinion of the Australian Finance Conference, which represents over 80 per cent of Australia's leasing industry of more than $4 billion annually, that these changes do not impinge upon normal commercial transactions. I thank the honourable member for Macarthur for the question. I take the opportunity of informing the House that, particularly in the light of the details that I gave the House last week of the revenue shortfall expected for 1978-79 and the contribution to that shortfall made by the incidence of tax avoidance, the Government's campaign against those practices will continue with renewed intensity. I hope that it will be possible during the Budget session to expose a redraft of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Act. The Government has been working extensively on this section. In present economic circumstances, it is more than ever necessary for the Government to continue its campaign against tax avoidance to restore greater equity to our taxation system. 
I can confirm for the honourable member for Mackellar that that in fact will be the case. However, I should make it clear to the House that the purpose of the decision that was announced last Sunday by the Minister for Industrial Relations and myself was not to subtract from the existing provisions of the investment allowance- all of those provisions remain unimpaired and unaffected- but to add to the existing provisions of the investment allowance a further proviso to insulate, as far as possible, against union blackmailing of businesses which, through industrial stoppages, are not able to have plant installed and ready for use by 30 June, thereby losing the benefits of the investment allowance. 
The addition that has been made is simply so that firms that are placed in a position where they have ordered equipment before 30 June 1978 but have not had it installed and ready for use by 30 June 1979 may still qualify for the 40 per cent investment allowance if it is installed and ready for use after 30 June 1979. The only proviso is that their entitlement would fall against their assessable income in the later year, that is, not in the current financial year. But those additions in no way take away the eligibility of people who comply with the precise terms of the law as it now stands. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911 to enable certain of the Governor-General 's powers under that Act to be delegated to the Treasurer, or a delegate of the Treasurer, so that new arrangements for marketing Commonwealth securities, as agreed to by the Loan Council, may be introduced later this year. Honourable members will probably be aware of these new marketing arrangements, which were the subject of a Press statement issued following the Loan Council meeting on 2 April 1979, and have commonly been referred to as the 'tap' issue of bonds and the issue of Treasury notes by tender. Essentially, these new arrangements are designed to modernise the marketing of Commonwealth securities in a way which is appropriate to the changed funds markets in this country. Ultimately interest rates can only be determined in accordance with market forces. The increased sophistication of capital markets makes this more apparent. The arrangements introduced in this legislation facilitate the selling of Commonwealth securities at rates more in accordance with the forces of supply and demand. 
In outline, the proposed new arrangements are as follows: Treasury bonds and associated inscribed stock, which are referred to simply as bonds', are to be made available on a 'tap' basis, that is, with one or more securities available to investors on a more or less continuous basis throughout the year, in contrast to the past practice of issuing new Commonwealth bonds through periodic cash loans. Bonds will be offered to investors by the Reserve Bank of Australia acting as agent for the Commonwealth. The Loan Council will continue to determine the maturity date and coupon rate of the securities issued in the tap and will, from time to time, establish the limits within which the yields on the approved tap stocks on issue may be varied by the  chairman  of the Loan Council without further consultation with Loan Council. Treasury notes and associated inscribed stock, referred to as 'notes', are to be sold by periodic tender, through the Reserve Bank acting on behalf of the Commonwealth. This will replace the present system whereby notes are available on continuous issue at predetermined prices. 
The advantages of selling bonds through a tap rather than through the occasional cash and conversion loans of the present system include the following: Firstly, having bonds on sale for longer continuous periods, with different stocks being issued from time to time and adjustments being made to prices to reflect market movements, will offer greater flexibility and scope for greater control over the quantity of securities issued and the maturity spread. Secondly, it should minimise the disadvantage of the present system of encouraging speculation associated with good and poor loan results, thus contribute to an unwelcome instability in bond rates and difficulties in marketing debt. Thirdly, the issue of bonds on a more or less continuous basis should also be more satisfactory from the point of view of institutional investors. Even with the instalment facility, the take-up of securities has in the past tended to be concentrated into a very short period which, given the large size of some past cash loans, and the large borrowing programs to be financed, itself contributed to instability in money markets.  (Quorum formed). 
I repeat that the third advantage of the new system is that the issue of bonds on a more or less continuous basis should also be more satisfactory from the point of view of institutional investors. Even with the instalment facility, the take-up of securities has in the past tended to be concentrated into a very short period which, given the large size of some past cash loans, and the large borrowing programs to be financed, itself contributed to instability in money markets. 
Fourthly, sharp swings in liquidity, for example, as are associated with tax payments can mean that the maturity dates of existing bonds, which normally coincide with new cash loans, can be quite inappropriate for trying to raise large sums in cash loans, though of course, cash loans can be, and have been, held at other times. 
The advantages of selling treasury notes by tender include the following: Firstly, the amount sold can be more precisely determined by the authorities but with the price more fully reflecting market views. Secondly, the advantages of that situation will be that the authorities will be in a better position to ensure that adequate volumes of treasury notes are taken up by the private sector in accordance with policy objectives, including the need for the private sector to be adequately equipped to finance seasonal contractions in liquidity. 
For the new arrangements in respect of the marketing of bonds and notes to operate effectively, it may be necessary to make changes at short notice to the prices at which the securities are issued. It may also be necessary to make changes to the maturities, interest rates and other conditions of issue at short notice. With notes being offered by tender, the prices and hence the yields at which notes will be issued will, of course, depend on the terms bid by those participating in each tender. The tap issue of bonds will also entail adjustments to price in order to change yields so as to reflect market conditions. In addition, technical adjustments to prices will be required to maintain the existing pattern of yields as the period to maturity of the tap stocks shortens. 
The Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act, which I note is a very old Act, presently provides for the prices and other terms and conditions of issue of Commonwealth securities to be determined by the Governor-General. To allow for the flexibility required for dealing with these matters under the new arrangements, it is proposed that provision be made to enable the Governor-General to delegate his relevant powers, and it is the essential purpose of this Bill to amend the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act accordingly. It is to be emphasised that these amendments to existing legislation will, if passed, in no way reduce the powers of the Parliament to authorise the borrowing of money by the issue and sale of stock, bonds or other securities. Such borrowing would continue to require the authority of an act of Parliament. The new arrangements for marketing Commonwealth securities represent essentially a modernisation of procedures in relation to the issue of Commonwealth securities in line with developments in capital markets which have become increasingly sophisticated since existing methods of marketing treasury bonds and treasury notes were introduced. 
Finally, I mention that, whilst certain details of the arrangements in respect of bonds are to be the subject of further discussion with the State Premiers later this month, the new marketing schemes have been endorsed by all the State governments as well as the Commonwealth. 
The Bill does not in any way pre-empt further consideration of marketing techniques in the Loan Council. Rather, it provides for flexibility in adopting methods of marketing of Commonwealth securities as agreed to by the Loan Council. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  have endeavoured this morning, in contrast to the approach that was adopted last night, to protest outrage and concern about the forms of the House. They have tried to demonstrate that what is involved is a high matter of parliamentary principle. I would like to say at the very outset that there is one thing that this debate is not about. It is not about the unwillingness of the Leader of the House (  Mr Sinclair)  to respond to debate about the subject of investigations into a number of companies of which he happens to be the director. I remind you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  and all members of the Opposition, that last night the Leader of the House quite properly sought leave and was given leave under Standing Order 64 to make a statement. It was only as a result of a suspension of Standing Orders being moved by the Opposition and a willingness on the part of the Leader of the House to allow the Opposition to respond to his statement that the provisions of Standing Order 64 were not availed of. 
This debate is simply about whether a ruling which was made by you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  under a combination of Standing Orders 142, 144 and 153 should be upheld. The principle involved in that ruling is a very simple one, that is, whether or not a matter which can only be the subject of a substantive motion in respect of an individual can be the subject of a question at Question Time. It is not about anything else. It is certainly not about the unwillingness of my right honourable friend to respond to the matters that the Opposition has raised. If there is one thing that has characterised the proceedings of the last few months as to the investigation into a number of companies with which my right honourable friend is connected, it is the way in which he has been the subject of an absolutely shameful trial by leak, innuendo and smear. That is really - 
-I repeat that this matter is about a very simple parliamentary principle. If a specific charge is made against a member of this House a substantive motion is moved and he is given particulars of that charge. We have cries from Opposition members in the name of decency, a fair go and doing the right thing. What do they do? They try to invoke the Standing Orders. They abuse the forms of the House, as they did last night, to prevent the reply of my right honourable friend to newspaper stories that everybody in this House knew would appear. They delayed the proceedings of this House so that the editions of some of the newspapers would have already gone to bed. Everybody in the Parliament and in the Press Gallery knows that that is why the honourable member for Fremantle - 
-One of a number of matters that has emerged from this whole episode has been the openness and willingness of the Leader of the House to have these matters investigated. 
The noise makers of the Opposition are anxious to prevent legitimate debate.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I remind you of what occurred last night. In deference to your ruling on relevance I will not go into detail. I say again that this debate is - 
-I repeat that this motion is not about the unwillingness of the Government, the Leader of the House, myself or any other member of the Government to have these matters debated. It is about the upholding of a very important parliamentary principle. The more that the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  or the other noise makers of the Opposition try to stop me speaking, the more apparent it becomes that members of the Opposition do not want an honest debate about the conduct of the Leader of the House. All they want to do is abuse the forms of the House which, according to the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Melbourne 
Ports, they are trying to uphold. As I said earlier, the whole affair has subjected my right honourable friend to a trial by innuendo, smear and false accusation. The forms of the House are designed to protect honourable members. They are also designed to enable a proper debate on matters bearing upon the public affairs of this country. I say to the Opposition that we have no objection to its moving a substantive motion. We will debate it quite willingly and openly, just as the Leader of the House was prepared to have debated the statement that he made last night. We will not allow members of the Opposition to rape the Standing Orders of this House.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I draw your attention to page 328 of May's  Parliamentary Practice.  On the subject of personal reflections May said: 
It is not in order in a question to reflect on the character or conduct of those persons whose conduct may only be challenged on a substantive motion. 
That, in a nutshell, is what this ruling is all about. It is not about anything else. It is not about whether anybody is biased. It is not about the matters involved in the investigation of the companies of which the Leader of the House is a director. It is simply about that very important parliamentary principle. It is there for a combination of reasons. It is there to stop people being subjected to a form of parliamentary trial without being given particulars of charges. It is also put there to enable a proper process whereby members on either side of the House may bring forward substantive motions. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, I draw your attention to page 3333 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 23 November 1 978 on which there is a ruling by  Mr Speaker  in respect of a motion of dissent which had been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The principles involved then were not dissimilar to the principles involved here, and this is very relevant to the point.  Mr Speaker  said this: 
I remind the House that Standing Orders and long established practices regulate the manner of debate on these matters. 1 will state them clearly to the House so that there can be no doubt about their meaning and intent. First, Standing Order 1 42 provides that a question may be put to a Minister relating to public affairs with which he is officially connected or to any matter of  adminstration  for which he is responsible. May's Parliamentary Practice, page 331, which this House uses as a guide, further amplifies this rule by stating that a question may not be asked which deals with the action of a Minister for which he is not responsible to Parliament. 

 Mr Speaker then goes on to explain exactly what I have just put to you, sir, and that is, that where a question is asked of a person in respect of whom a criticism or a challenge can be made only by way of substantive motion, that question is not in order, and it has nothing whatever to do with the question of whether a substantive motion can be used. It is not put there to allow Ministers to escape public scrutiny for matters on which there ought to be some public scrutiny. 
If the honourable member has any complaints about taxation or the administration of the taxation law or any claims whatever to make about my right honourable friend, he can make them and we will be quite happy to have them investigated. So this is simply about a very important parliamentary principle, a principle that is designed to enable proper parliamentary scrutiny of Ministers, but at the same time to give to Ministers, in the words that members of the Opposition have used in this debate, ' a fair go '. ' A fair go ' means that if members of the Opposition have a complaint against the Leader of the House or against any other member of the Government front bench, they should move a substantive motion and have the courage to give particulars of their charge. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
Question put- 
That the question be now put. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. However, I am informed that Weisscredit Australia Pty Ltd (in liquidation) has no Australian shareholders and that the Statement of Affairs filed under the Companies Act of NSW lists amounts of approximately $69,000 owing to creditors in Australia. The amounts recoverable by these creditors will depend on the realisation of the company's assets now in progress. I have no information that would enable me to answer your question concerning Renzo di Piramo. 
No. 
Yes. 
No. I am informed that the then Treasurer decided that, on the facts available, prosecution for breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations was not warranted. It would not be proper for me to inquire into the reasons for a decision made by a Treasurer of a former Government. In any case, it is not the practice of Treasurers to give reasons for decisions in relation to prosecutions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs and the Australian Bureau of Statistics have recently started a joint project to develop an Australian Standard Classification of Occupations. The project is currently engaged on preliminary tasks such as detailed discussion of requirements with potential users of the classification, the development of a detailed work program, and the determination of resource needs. 
) Until this preliminary stage is concluded it will not be possible to provide precise information on personnel and funds allocated to the project. However, a preliminary assessment suggests requirements of the following order: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The various Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Acts provide authority for the Treasurer to guarantee on behalf of the Commonwealth, borrowings undertaken by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to finance the purchase of aircraft. 
The table below lists details of all Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd borrowings supported by a Commonwealth government guarantee under the provisions of such Acts since 1958. 
To date, TAA has not requested the assistance of a Commonwealth guarantee for any aircraft borrowings but, during the period, some funds were borrowed by the Commonwealth and on-lent to TAA for aircraft financing. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There was no separate appropriation for the 1976 Census of Population and Housing. Funds were appropriated on the basis of approved requirements for each financial year as part of the ABS's general appropriation. Depending on the particular financial year these amounts included allocations for the 1971, 1976 and 1981 Censuses because of the overlap of different phases of the various Censuses. 
In addition many items of expenditure arc met from general ABS resources and it is not possible to precisely identify the 1976 Census component amongst such expenditure. Most of the expenditure for the 1976 Census, however, fell under specific functional categories viz printing, field collection, salaries for clerical staff, accommodation, transportation, etc and it is from such sources that the direct cost of the 1 976 Census has been calculated at $ 1 9.4m. 
It is expected that this direct cost of $ 19.4m will be fully spent by the end of the financial year 1 978-79. 
Not applicable. 
The tabulation program for a population Census is so large that, of necessity, it must span several years. For budgetary reasons, the Government deferred the main processing of the Census for 12 months, and consequently the main tabulation phase did not commence until May 1978. 
Considerable statistical information has already been produced from both the preliminary processing phase completed in 1976 and. during the last year following the creation of the final data files. 
A wide range of characteristics of the population and housing for all geographic areas of Australia is available in the form of publications, microfiche and summary tabulations on computer tapes and such information has been made available to a wide range of users, including the Parliamentary library. 
The tabulation program will continue for the next 2 to 3 years when further detailed tabulations will bc produced both in the Canberra Office and in each State Office of the ABS working to a program determined in consultation with major users of Census information. 
National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence (Question No. 3846) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Yes. 
) and (3 ) As the honourable member may be aware, recent press reports indicate that the liquidator of VIP Insurances Limited may be recommending legal action against Allstate Insurance Company on matters connected with the reinsurance arrangements entered into between these two companies. In these circumstances, I do not feel that it would be appropriate for me to make any comments at this time on the reinsurance arrangements. I should add, however, that where any breaches of the Insurance Act are established, appropriate action will be taken. 
(a) No. Allstate is not subject to the Insurance Act. 
The Act makes no provision for the formal classification of unsatisfactory reinsurers by the Insurance Commissioner does, of course, have regard to such matters as the standards of reinsurers in administering the provisions of section 34 of the Act. 
5 ) No such amendments are envisaged. 
VIP Insurances Ltd (Question No. 3883) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am not in a position to say what factors might or might not have 'encouraged' people to take out policies with a particular company. I should add that there is no basis in the Insurance Act 1 973 for any suggestion that authorisation under the Act represents a guarantee against possible losses by the creditors of individual insurance companies authorised under the Act, although the general effect of that Act has been to improve the overall soundness and stability of the industry. I note that there was a large number of insurance companies authorised under the Insurance Act at the time of entry into liquidation of VIP Insurances Limited and that purchases of insurance had a wide choice of insurers available to them. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that the United States tax law does provide a tax incentive for employers to employ handicapped persons. 
The incentive takes the form of a credit against tax payable. It is based on salary and wages paid to handicapped individuals. Broadly speaking the credit is equal to 50 per cent of the first $6,000 of the year's wages and 25 per cent of second year wages paid to each handicapped person. Where a credit is allowed the income tax deduction allowable to an employer for wages paid is reduced by the amount of the credit. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I have indicated on several occasions, both in the Parliament and elsewhere, the Government has been looking very closely at the feasibility of rewriting section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act in order to have an effective general provision against tax avoidance practices. 
I said in the House on 4 June that I hope to have an exposure draft of a new provision available for comment during the Budget sittings. 
However, any person with a knowledge of income tax law will realise that drafting a provision to replace section 260 is an extremely complex task. It is not one that can be, or should be, hurried. 
Apan from considering all the ramifications of judicial decisions on the present section 260, it is necessary to ensure that any new provision does not impinge upon genuine transactions or concessions provided in the income tax law to encourage various forms of activity. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not not have information indicating which private sector insurance companies operating in Australia offer insurance against losses caused, related to, or arising from, landslip. I have, however, asked my Department to make appropriate inquiries. I shall pass the results on to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. As outlined in my statement of 1 0 June 1 979, the Government has given foreign investment approval to the joint venture arrangements for the development of the Yeelirrie uranium project by Western Mining Corporation 
Ltd, Esso Exploration and Production Australia Inc and Urangesellschaft Australia Pry Ltd. 
In reaching its decision to allow Esso to take up an equity interest in the project, the Government had regard to the substantial marketing, technological and financial assistance which the company would bring to the project. The Government was also satisfied that alternative Australian capital was not available. 
-I present the following papers for the information of honourable members in connection with the Budget for 1979-80: 
Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1 980. 
-My answer to the last part of the question is no. My comment on the first part of the question is that later today I will have a few things to say about a few of the matters raised and I invite the honourable member to come along. 
All I would say in response to the honourable member for Adelaide is that all the Budgets and principal economic statements of the Fraser Government, including those of May 1976 and May 1979, have made a far greater contribution to recognising the economic problems of this country than any Budget or economic statement produced by the Opposition when in government. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In doing so, I present the Budget for 1979-80. 
The purpose of a Budget Speech is not only to give details of a Government's revenue and expenditure plans for the year. 
It is also an occasion to take stock, to review the course of the economy over the previous year, to assess prospects and problems for the year ahead and above all to restate the basic economic policies of the Government. 
One persistent theme has dominated this Government's conduct of economic policy since its election in 1975. 
That has been the uncompromising nature of its attack upon inflation as the fundamental and most enduring cause of the economic difficulties of the 1970s. 
Tonight I reaffirm the determination of this Government to maintain that attack. 
In recent months, due largely to world wide price increases, inflationary pressures have intensified in Australia. 
The prime purpose, therefore, of this Budget is to respond decisively to these renewed pressures. 
In doing so we should not lose sight of the real gains that have been made. Despite the recent upward movement in inflation, it is still very much lower than it was several years ago. 
It should not be forgotten that inflation was as high as 17 per cent in the year to June 1975 and stood at 14 per cent when this Government took office. For the year to June 1979 it was 8.8 per cent which was below the average for the OECD countries. 
The priority given by the Government to the attack upon inflation has been vindicated by the steady improvement in Australia's economic health over the past three and a half years. 
That improvement strengthened and broadened in 1978-79. 
Real gross domestic product is presently estimated to have increased by 4.7 per cent. 
It was, of course, a very good year for the rural sector, with a most gratifying rise in real farm product of 36 per cent. 
Growth elsewhere, while less spectacular, was still quite firm. 
On current estimates, real non-farm product grew by 2.8 per cent. 
Business fixed investment recorded an increase of 10 per cent in real terms. 
Private dwelling construction has also picked up. 
Overall business profits improved last year. This process must continue if recovery is to be consolidated. 
Civilian employment grew by 1 .4 per cent over the course of the year. Most encouragingly private sector employment rose by about  Vh  per cent and, for the first time since 1973-74, there was a rise in jobs in manufacturing industry. 
Our balance of payments turned sharply for the better in the second half of the financial year. 
It was especially pleasing to see a strong growth in manufactured exports reflecting a substantial improvement in the competitiveness of Austraiian industry. 
Confidence in the strength and stability of the Australian economy continued to grow. 
Private capital inflow for 1978-79 was the largest for seven years. 
There was also a marked rise in the number of major investment projects foreshadowed. 
These developments clearly show that policies which address fundamental economic problems do yield results. 
Lower inflation does inspire greater confidence and encourage greater risk taking. 
Lower costs do make our industries more com.petive; they do encourage development; and they do, thereby, provide jobs. 
The clear benefits of firmly pursuing an antiinflationary policy over more than three years are reason enough to reaffirm that policy tonight. 
Moreover, the difficulties faced by the entire industrialised world- including Australia- over the next year in responding to fresh inflationary pressures make it all the more essential that fighting inflation be the hallmark of this Budget. 
In doing so we should remember that no Government can guarantee that price rises will never occur; indeed, some price rises are inevitable. 
The rise in the price of oil is a case in point. 
Our policy in respect of crude oil is to conserve our resources through a reduction in consumption, to promote exploration and to encourage the use of alternative energy sources. 
There is no way this policy can be effectively pursued unless the price of Australian crude oil is set at the world level. 
This means we now feel the full effects of price increases by the OPEC countries. 
Oil prices alone will add directly about 1  per cent to the Consumer Price Index in 1979. 
We might wish that we could isolate ourselves from higher world oil prices. 
But to have persevered with the old pricing policy would merely have delayed the,inevitable change and would have run counter to our energy objectives. 
Ultimately the change would have been forced upon us: Ultimately it would have been necessary to recognise that if something is scarce, artificially holding down its price will make it even scarcer. 
If we had delayed the change the eventual dislocation would have been all the greater. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1979-80 totalling $l,552.486m. The Bill provides for proposed expenditure on the construction of public works and buildings, the acquisition of sites and buildings, advances and loans, items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure, grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution and new policy initiatives not previously authorised by special legislation. 
Details of these proposed expenditures totalling $ 1,452.486m are set out in Schedule 2 to the Bill. Of this total, $754.7 18m was authorised by Supply Act (No. 2) 1979-80, the balance of $797.768m being authorised by this Bill. An amount of $100m is included in the Bill for the advance to the Minister for Finance. The main features of the proposed expenditure for 1979-80, of which this Bill will authorise part, were outlined in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Banks do not provide information on these matters to the authorities. The Corporation has suggested, and I have accepted its advice, that it would not, for competitive reasons, be desirable for information on its position to be made publicly available in isolation. There would also be some costs involved in assembling the data requested. 
It would not be appropriate, for security reasons, to make information about any steps taken by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to reduce losses through fraud publicly available. 
The Department of Finance has advised that costs are incurred within the several cheque-issuing Departments and by the Commonwealth Police in investigating and replacing Commonwealth Government cheques negotiated without the authority of the bona fide payee. It is not practical to segregate the costs attributable to such replacements from the costs of other investigations. 
This information is not readily available: arrests would have been made by State as well as Commonwealth Police. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The Primary Industry Bank of Australia commenced refinancing operations in November 1978. The table below sets out term loan and farm development loan approvals by the major trading banks since October 1978. The statistics of term loan approvals include loans refinanced by the Primary Industry Bank of Australia as well as other term loans, both rural and non-rural. The growth in term loan approvals is not all attributable to the Primary Industry Bank: other term lending to the rural sector has also risen. The statistics of farm development loan approvals show that they also have risen since the establishment of the Primary Industry Bank. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Under the terms of the Statistics Act, the ABS is prohibited from divulging the contents of an individual return. In discharging this responsibility it has to ensure that this confidential data is not inadvertently disclosed, e.g. by publishing data which enables one respondent to deduce another respondent's data. Therefore manufacturing production data dominated by data for one or two respondents is suppressed from publication and other figures may also need to be suppressed to prevent derivation of confidential data by subtraction from totals. 
Patterns of manufacturing commodity production change over time and this often means that the confidentility pattern also changes. The number of data cells suppressed is kept to a minimum and the confidentiality pattern is maintained on a consistent basis as far as possible. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The gold price data set out below for London and Zurich markets are on the commonly-used basis of end-of-month quotations. The London price is that determined during the 1500 hours (GMT) fixing. It is the buying/selling price agreed upon by dealers at thetime of the fixing. The Zurich data are on the basis of the mid-point of the spread between buying and selling prices at the close of trading. The size of the spread varies according to market conditions but currently the buying price is around 30 cents below the midpoint quotation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Although I do not personally recall the details of the honourable member's representations on this matter, I am aware of his keen interest in this subject and my Department has a full record of the honourable member's representations on its files. I am, of course, also aware that the official representatives of the insurance broking and underwriting industries have expressed themselves in favour of legislation for the supervision of insurance brokers. A Discussion Paper issued last year by the Law Reform Commission included proposals- described by the Commission as 'tentative '-for legislation to supervise insurance brokers but it is to be noted that the Commission still has this matter under consideration and that its final Report on its Insurance Contracts Reference is not expected until later this year. I do not know what the honourable member may have had in mind in referring to ' calls ' from the ' media '. 
I do not believe that it would be appropriate to provide information on the internal workings of government of the kind called for in this question. I have, however, indicated to the Insurance Brokers' Council of Australia that I shall be seeking guidance from Cabinet on the approach to be adopted on this matter. 
There have been discussions between representatives of my Department and the Insurance Council of Australia on this matter although not in the recent past 
It is not the case that the regulation of the insurance industry is at present entirely 'left to market forces' as implied in the question. Considerable regulation is, of course, exercised under the Life Insurance Act 1945 and the Insurance Act 1973. In relation to the question whether there should be Commonwealth legislation for the regulation of insurance brokers that is a policy matter that remains under consideration at present. 
Although this matter has, it is true, been under examination for some years it is equally true that it remains under examination at present including by the Law Reform Commission (see ( 1 ) above). When I am in a position to make a statement of the Government's decision I shall do so. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics on 17 March 1978 indicate that, as at 30 June 1976, 107 of the 213 general (non-life) insurance companies then operating in Australia were foreign controlled on the basis of the definition used by the Bureau; these foreign controlled companies wrote 37.8 per cent of business, as measured by premiums, in the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The expressed fears put to the Government mainly centred around the possibility that, in the event of a major catastrophe or series of catastrophes occurring, the claims arising therefrom could result in some insurance companies facing substantial losses of reserves, possibly to the point of solvency problems arising. It was also suggested that there could, in these circumstances, be increases in reinsurance premium rates or withdrawal of reinsurance cover by the international reinsurance market. 
Fears of this general kind were expressed in the report referred to in paragraph 3 of the Policy Information Paper which I tabled in Parliament on 4 June 1979 and in various consultative processes with insurance industry representatives. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The main problem identified in relation to the question of providing insurance cover for landslip was that both the probability and cost of damage to properties in areas exposed to this hazard can be very high. In such circumstances a premium rate that is commensurate with the risk can be beyond the capacity of the property owner to bear. A related problem is the potential inequities involved in spreading this burden to insurers or those in the community that are not exposed to this hazard. There may also be definitional problems arising from the varied causes of this hazard. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that Minatome has been looking for Australian partners for the possible development of this deposit. However, I am unable to advise which companies may have been approached as information received by the Government in connection with foreign investment proposals is treated in confidence. 
A proposal for the development of the deposit would require consideration by the Foreign Investment Review Board in terms of the Government 's policy on foreign investment in uranium. 
Defence Housing in West Heidelberg Area (Question No. 4242) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Not all the information concerning sources and uses of funds for welfare housing sought by the honourable member is available. Also, as welfare housing arrangements in 1978- 79 were made under the 1978 Commonwealth State Housing Agreement, the figures for 1978-79 and for earlier years are in some cases not directly comparable, and, because of different accounting arrangements, estimates for the various States are not comparable in many cases. However, the information which is available, and the fact that under the revised Housing Agreement increased surpluses may be generated from the operation of housing programs and utilised for welfare housing purposes, support the statements made following the June 1978 Premiers' Conference. 
The following information relates to Housing Agreement activity and has been provided by the States to the Department of Housing and Construction in accordance with the requirements of the Agreement. (l)and(2)Outlays. 
-I will have the - 

 -Mr Speaker, while I am on my feet may I have your leave to correct an answer that I made earlier? 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of direct financial assistance by the Commonwealth to industry, by industry classification are available in the Budget Papers each year. 
Estimates of indirect Commonwealth assistance to industry through special taxation concessions are also available in the Budget Papers each year. 
Comprehensive details of 'other assistance to industry' are not available. Estimates of average nominal and effective rates of protection and net subsidy equivalents provided by tariffs and other forms of protection for groups of manufacturing industries are contained in Assistance to Manufacturing Industries in Australia, Industries Assistance Commission, 1 968-69 to 1973-74, AGPS, 1976 and in subsequent IAC Annual Reports. Estimates for other industries and for earlier years are not available. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is no. The Leader of the Opposition, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition have over the past few months tried to implant in the minds of the Australian community the idea that its living standards have been reduced under this Government. I say to the Leader of the Opposition and to all of his colleagues that he has a very heavy obligation to the Australian community. If the Leader of the Opposition intends to make allegations about a reduction in living standards I invite him to produce the evidence that living standards have been reduced. The Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues are engaged in a campaign of trying to fix this Government with promises that it has never made and with responsibility for things that it has never done. If the Leader of the Opposition wants honourable members on this side of the Parliament to take seriously his allegations about changes in living standards, let him give us some evidence. 
Let him also come clean about what would happen to the living standards of Australians if the taxation policies adopted at the Adelaide conference were implemented. Let him come clean with the Australian people by telling them what would happen to incentive under a taxation system that provided for a marginal rate of 75c or 80c in the dollar. Let him tell the Australian people what the Labor Party's funny money wealth tax ideas would do to the confidence of small business people and farmers in Australia. In other words, if the Leader of the Opposition wants to be taken seriously as an alternative Prime Minister, if he wants to beat off successfully challenges from within his own movement, let him do two things: Before he makes attacks upon the credibility of this Government, let him produce some evidence and let him have the honesty to come clean about the effect of his own policies. 
If I may reply to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first, the answer is emphatically no. I believe that the level of the deficit which was struck in last night's Budget is appropriate in the present economic circumstances and will be very widely received as the most appropriate response to the economic circumstances at present. The honourable member for Gellibrand has some familiarity with national account statistics. 
-He is more familiar with national account statistics than are some of his colleagues. He will know that those statistics have a great capacity to vary from quarter to quarter. Obviously, if that figure is a correct reflection of what occurred during that quarter, it is not a figure that pleased us a great deal. The honourable member asked about the availability of the figures. The answer to that question is that those figures formally became available to the Government only a few days ago and knowledge of those figures would not have been available to the Government for any longer than about five or six days. So any question of there being any massive capacity for us to alter things if we had wanted to, which we would not, does not arise. 
The honourable member for Cunningham obviously has not read exactly what was said last night. 
The honourable member for Cunningham obviously has not read exactly what was said in the Budget Speech and papers about the question of unemployment, and by his question he demonstrates the very narrow vision that the Labor Party has concerning the problems of unemployment. He also demonstrates- 
The honourable member asked a question about unemployment because he was worried about the jobless in Australia. Why does he not listen to the answer? The fact of the matter is that the Labor Party is totally obsessed with the idea that the only way - 

 Honourable members interjecting. 

If members of the Labor Party were really as concerned about unemployment as they profess to be and if they were really worried about the capacity of the Australian economy to create more jobs, which is the only lasting solution to the problem of unemployment- not some of the gimmicky solutions that are urged upon us by spokesmen for the Labor Party- they would think again about the consequences of some of the policies they adopted at the Adelaide Conference of the Labor Party, such as the policy that they adopted regarding foreign investment. It so happens - 
-The honourable member's question asked about the Government's attitude towards unemployment. He says he is worried about manpower programs. One of the most effective responses to unemployment in this country is to have more jobs, and one of the best ways to have more jobs is to have more investment in this country. One of the effects of the policies that were adopted by the Labor Party in Adelaide would be to make more overseas investment in this country far less likely. 
-The Labor Party is obsessed with the belief that the most effective way of reponding to the unemployment problem is to adopt policies which are specifically tailored to create jobs without recognising that the most effective way of creating jobs in this country is to follow economic policies which encourage both domestic and overseas investment. That is why the policy which the Labor Party adopted at the Adelaide conference, if implemented, will scare away foreign investment from this country and is so counter-productive to its concern about the level of unemployment in Australia. Part of the foreign investment policy adopted by the Labor Party at its conference in Adelaide was to establish within the Foreign Investment Review Board something that could be described as nothing short of a unit to spy on multinational corporations that might want to establish their operations in Australia. If the honourable member for Cunningham is really worried about the level of unemployment in Australia, he will urge his party to adopt a more realistic attitude towards both domestic and overseas investment in this country. 
I would genuinely like to know how the honourable member for Chifley has arrived at the allegation that the consumer price index has gone up by 48 per cent in the period that he cited. I may be living in ignorance of some hidden deflator that he uses in these things. Perhaps he is thinking of some earlier years before 1975 when the rate of inflation increased in a very short period. The honourable member for Chifley, like the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Newcastle, is trying, once again, through Question Time, to establish that the living standards of the Australian community have been reduced during the term of office of this Government. 
Very simply, the facts of the matter are that this Government has given to Australian families, through the family allowance scheme, one of the most revolutionary social reforms that this country has seen. At the time the family allowance scheme was introduced it was hailed not only by members of this side of the House; it was acknowledged also by members of the other side of the House. Members of the Opposition now have a fondness for the family allowance scheme that was not evident when they were in office between 1972 and 1975. Like most other major social reforms, it was introduced by a government of Liberal persuasion and not a government of Labor persuasion. 
-The extent to which individuals are affected by the increased health charges and changes in their take home pay as a result of the surcharge coming off on 1 December will vary according to their circumstances. I make one point to the honourable member for Prospect: To make a straight comparison between the increase in health insurance premiums and the increase in take home pay is to tell only half the story. What the honourable member for Prospect fails to understand is something that my colleague the Minister for Health has said on many occasions, namely, that there is no such thing as a free health care service. Indeed, if the arrangements that were announced on 24 May had not been instituted and the Government had sustained the same levels of Commonwealth subsidy for the health service, it would have been necessary for us to have a higher rate of taxation than will prevail throughout the course of this year. So it is totally misleading for the honourable member for Prospect and the Leader of the Opposition to make that simple comparison. 
-The Leader of the Opposition ignores the fact that during the whole time that his party was in government- he was a senior member of that government and for a period was Treasurer in that government- it followed the most profligate monetary policy that this country has seen since the end of World War II. It financed its large deficits by increasingly resorting to the printing presses. I do not have at my fingertips the figures quoted by the Leader of the Opposition. I will check the claim made by him and if I have any comment to make on it I will do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to increase the annual percentage of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. In his election policy speech in November 1977, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that the share of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government would be increased to 2 per cent by 1 980-8 1 . The increase proposed in the Bill is a major step towards fulfilling that promise. One of the aims of the Government's federalism policy is that State governments and local authorities should have maximum independence and flexibility in determining their priorities and carrying out their functions. Accordingly, the Government has placed emphasis on the provision of 'untied' funds to them through giving them access to a share of personal income tax revenue. 
As a result of the tax sharing arrangements which were introduced in 1976-77, general revenue or 'untied' funds made available to local authorities have increased very substantially- by 145 per cent in the three years to 1978-79. The proposed increase in local government's percentage share of income tax revenue in 1979-80 means that local government's entitlement in 1 979-80 will be $22 1 . 74m. That represents an increase of no less than 23.6 per cent on last year's amount. In the light of the budgetary difficulties facing the Government, that is a generous increase indeed. I note that it will not be possible to provide the funds for local government at this new higher level until the legislation is amended as proposed in this Bill. 
In addition to increasing the percentage share of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government, this Bill is intended to permit reviews from time to time of the relative State shares of the funds provided for local government under the tax sharing arrangements. The State percentages are set out in sub-section 5 (2) of the Act and were revised in 1977 following a review by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. At present, sub-section 12(2) of the Act states that the Minister- in this case, the Prime Minister- shall, before 30 June 1981, arrange for the question of whether any change is desirable in the percentage distribution table set out in sub-section 5(2) to be referred to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for inquiry and report by the Commission. This sub-section may be read as providing for one review only, and as one such review has taken place, an amendment is proposed to make it clear that the matter may be referred to the Commonwealth Grants Commission on future occasions. 
Honourable members may recall that in introducing the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill 1977, my colleague, the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Treasurer, told the House that following a suggestion by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  consideration was being given, in consultation with the States, to the question of making specific provision in the legislation that the Commonwealth Grants Commission should follow equalisation principles in future reviews of States' shares of the local government tax sharing entitlement. 
The matter of principles and procedures to be followed in relation to future reviews of State relativities and whether any of the principles and procedures should be included in the legislation was subsequently referred to the Commission for inquiry and report. The outcome was the Commission's special report 1979 on financial assistance for local government tabled recently in this House. 
Copies of the special report have been sent to the States and their views on the recommendations sought. We shall be examining the matter when the States have made their views known. Further legislation may be required then. In the meantime, and irrespective of the outcome of these processes, the Government has considered it desirable to take the opportunity to widen the provisions of sub-section 12 (2) to permit reviews of the States' percentage shares from time to time. It is in the interest of local government throughout Australia that this Bill receive passage promptly and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned.  (Quorum formed) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority needed to meet the prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1979-80. At the same time it will, together with authorities expected to be available under other legislation, provide the borrowing authority needed to finance the estimated overall Budget deficit for the financial year. Honourable members will be aware that, for many years, there has been legislation for these purposes in the legislative programs of successive governments. 
In my Budget Speech I announced that the prospective overall Budget deficit for 1979-80 is estimated to be $2, 193m. Except insofar as funds are available from accumulated cash balances or other miscellaneous financing transactions, this deficit must be financed by net borrowings. Such net borrowings must, of course, be within proper legislative authority derived from the Parliament. 
The overall Budget deficit takes into account all relevant transactions of the three separate funds used to record the Commonwealth's receipts and expenditures. These funds are the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund. The amounts which may be paid from each fund are limited to the amounts legally available to it. 
Underlying the overall deficit estimated for 1979-80 is an estimated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of $ 1,604m. Details of the current estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund transactions are set out, for the information of honourable members, in table 3 of Budget Paper No. 4- Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the Year Ending 30 June 1980. As payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund cannot exceed moneys available in it, it is necessary either to reduce payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund by charging to Loan Fund some expenditures normally met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or, alternatively, to supplement the receipts of the Consolidated Revenue Fund from some other source. Appropriate legislative authority is needed for such transfers. The simplest and traditional means of providing appropriate legislative authority is a Loan Bill of the type I am now presenting. 
This Bill will authorise borrowings for defence purposes in order that defence expenditure, which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, may instead be met from the Loan Fund. The Bill authorises borrowing for defence purposes. I should make it quite clear, however, that it does not authorise any defence expenditures additional to those which have already been authorised by Parliament in Supply Act (No. 1) 1979-80 or which will subsequently be authorised in Appropriation Acts for this financial year. It will simply allow reallocations of defence expenditures between the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loan Fund to be made during the remainder of the financial year, following the enactment of this legislation. 
In this regard I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 8 of the recently introduced Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80, which makes that Bill subject to the provisions of the proposed Loan Act. I should also mention that, as borrowings under this legislation will be for the purpose of financing defence expenditure, those borrowings will not require approval from the Australian Loan Council. The Bill includes a specific limit to the amount of such borrowings that may be undertaken. This limit is directly related to the level of defence expenditure which is expected to be made from the date of enactment of the Bill to 30 June 1980. Honourable members will be well aware that, at this early stage, the estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit is inevitably a qualified one. The actual figure for the year will be affected by presently unforeseen developments during the year which could cause departures from current estimates of receipts and payments of the Fund. In setting a limit on borrowings for inclusion in the Bill these inherent uncertainties need to be recognised. The limit that has been included is $ 1 ,800m. This provides a reasonable margin over the estimated Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit of $ 1,604m. Borrowings under this proposed legislation will be undertaken within the framework of the monetary policy objective to which I referred in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I do not know the answer to the question without checking. I will find out and try to let the honourable gentleman know as soon as possible. 
Yes, I have read it. 

 - Mr Speaker - 
I will answer the question. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to correct an answer I gave yesterday. 
I will come to indexation in a minute. I say to the honourable member for Gellibrand and to the Taxpayers Association that what they are saying is absolutely nothing new. It runs in stark contrast to the accusations of hoaxing that the Opposition itself levelled at this Government when tax indexation was introduced. Perhaps the most revealing thing of all about the whole debate is the attitude of the Opposition itself towards tax indexation. Opposition members appear now to be saying that tax indexation is a marvellous thing. A couple of nights ago the Leader of the Opposition was really saying that the Government ought to bring in tax indexation straight away. The tenor of the honourable member for Gellibrand 's statement was to the same effect. But it is very interesting if one looks at an interview with the Leader of the Opposition on 21 July 1979- barely a month ago- which is reported in the  National Times.  The Leader of the Opposition was asked this question: 
What is Labor's attitude towards tax indexation? 
That is a fair question. The Leader of the Opposition replied: 
Well, we are committed to the principle of tax indexation, but I'm not suggesting that we would go ahead with it immediately. We 'd have to weigh up whether we could afford it or not. The implementation of full tax indexation would cost another $S00m. 
But this next sentence is the daddy of them all. I ask honourable members to listen to it. The Leader of the Opposition stated: 
We've got to trade that off as against tax cuts. Which would people prefer? At this stage, I think they'd prefer the tax cuts. 
They are the words of the Leader of the Opposition used a month ago. This is the very man who is allowing his Party, through its economic spokesman the honourable member for Gellibrand, to be associated with a campaign which has criticised this Government for making a choice between dropping the surcharge and restoring full tax indexation. The Government has never made any secret of the fact it would have to make a choice between those two alternatives. 
I think this performance demonstrates the total hypocrisy of the Leader of the Opposition. 
-I did not hear the honourable member's question when he first put it. If he wants to know whether the estimates include an allowance for a future Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries price increase, the answer is that they do not. 
-The honourable member for Parramatta either did not read the  National Times  of 21 July 1979 or he did not hear the answer that was given at the commencement of Question Time because what he is really doing is criticising the policy that his own Leader then supported. That ought to be - 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I would like to disabuse the House and anybody else of any suggestion that I seek similarity between the economic policies of this Government and the Opposition. I was merely drawing attention to the palpable inconsistency in what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said on 2 1 July 1979 and what he and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  a month later, would have us believe - 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley-Leader of the Opposition)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question is yes, I did use the words spoken of and I also used the example quoted - 
-I suggest that the honourable gentleman hold his peace for a moment. I also used the example that the honourable gentleman quoted. The financial matters of my colleagues happen to be their own business and they take their own counsel and advice on them. I do not propose to give any gratuitous advice to anybody. 
-I am indebted to the right honourable member for Lowe for asking me that question. Not only is the right honourable gentleman's arithmetic accurate but also on this occasion it is a little on the conservative side. The information that I have been provided with indicates- I think it is important that the nature of what is being proposed is understood- that the cost of the three proposals put to the Prime Minister and me yesterday by the Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association was in the order of $900m a year extra. In those circumstances, for the person to describe those proposals as minor adjustments, as he has, and to describe them as proposals which leave the general shape of the Budget unchanged is, I think, to give those words in the English language a meaning which they do not have. The gentleman is proposing a radically different approach and quite obviously, if we had had another $900m to play with in the Budget we, like many other people, would have been able to design a very attractive additional tax package. 
But the fact of the matter is that when we came to the end of the day in terms of taxation relief we had a limited amount of money to play with and we were able to give a certain amount of taxation relief, and that will be felt on 1 December. 
No matter what the Secretary of the Taxpayers Association, the Leader of the Opposition or anybody says, nothing can take away the fact that there will be definite tax relief available on 1 December. 
If it had been done in a different way as recommended by the Secretary - 
-I will mention one other thing in the context of the question asked by the right honourable member. A considerable amount of play has been made upon the fact that, under a taxation system that involves a taxfree zone, if there are increases in wages and, therefore, in taxable income, the percentage increase for a person receiving an income only a little above the tax-free threshold is very large. That occurs simply as a result of having a taxfree zone. No matter what system we have, if it involves a tax-free zone, we cannot avoid that. I will give an ad absurdum example. If a person's income were $3,894, $ 1 above the tax threshold, in theory last year's tax would have been 33c. If that income went up by 9 per cent, this year's tax would represent an increase over last year of 35,000 per cent. That is an ad absurdum example but it gives some indication of how misleading it is simply to talk about the percentage increases in relation to amounts of taxable income immediately above the tax-free threshold. With great respect that has been the failing of what the Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association has done. 
I made a number of speeches in Brisbane yesterday and I answered a number of questions about the Budget. In one of those speeches I said that I did not mind for a moment the description of the Budget as 'a Budget for business'. I do not intend to make any apology for the fact that the Australian business community - 
Which is the best hope for providing jobs for the unemployed of Australia, has reacted in a very positive manner to the Budget that was brought down last Tuesday night. I do not mind saying anywhere in Australia that the Budget has been well received by the business community. So it ought to be, because it is a Budget that provides a large number of incentives for all sizes of business in Australia, not least the small business sector which is so much the backbone of the commercial community of this country. 
As far as the position of families is concerned, this Government has a record since it was elected in December 1975, through its Budgets and its other economic decisions, of giving support to the family which is the envy of other political parties in this country. The introduction of the family allowance system, which was greeted by many members of the Opposition with exclamations of 'Why didn't we think of that when we were in government?', is a very good example of the sort of policies we have followed. The extent to which inflation has been reduced benefits no section of the community greater than it benefits Australian families. The reduction in the overall burden of taxation which will occur after 1 December will benefit no sector greater than it will benefit Australian families. Of course there are different ways in which the taxation system can be arranged to benefit different sections of the community. I have made no secret in the past, I made no secret yesterday in answer to a question, and I make no secret again in answering the honourable member for Sturt, of my belief that there are features of the present taxation system that work to the disadvantage of single income families. Views regarding this have been put to the Government by a number of our members, and they are views that will continue to receive very close study from the members of the Government. 
It may not be apparent to the Opposition, in particular to the Leader of the Opposition, that there has been a general acceleration of inflation throughout the industrialised world in recent months. 
-Of course, like there was in - 
-I am glad that the honourable member for Robertson has interjected. 
There is no single economic matter which is more important to the future course of Australia, over the next 12 months in particular, than the extent to which we maintain the international competitiveness that we have gained over the past  VA  years. The single most important priority of economic policy ought to be directed to that end. It was for that reason that the Budget placed such great emphasis on fighting inflation, containing our domestic cost structure and preserving the competitive gains that we have made over the past 3'/z years. 
To illustrate those gains let me remind the House- these statistics are sometimes forgotten in the welter of exchange over comparative economic statistics- that when this Government came to office the average inflation rate for countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development was 9.3 per cent. Yet our inflation rate to December 1975 was 14.1 per cent. In other words, we were amongst the bad boys of the OECD countries. Our inflation rate was demonstrably above the average rate. Over the past  Vh  years not only has our absolute level of inflation been dramatically reduced but also our comparative performance has been reduced to a position where we are just below the average inflation rate for OECD countries. 
The challenge of economic policy is to do something about maintaining this competitive edge. The challenge of economic policy is to build upon the fact that last year there was a rise of 30 per cent in manufactured exports from Australia. The challenge of economic policy is to obtain more of what occurred last week when an Australian shipyard was able to bid competitively for a naval vessel without any special subsidy. A $70m shipbuilding contract was won for Australian shipyards. This was due in no small measure to the fact that the international competitiveness of this country through a combination of fighting inflation and managing the Australian exchange rate in a sensible pragmatic fashion has improved so much over the past  Vh  years. 
It is my understanding that all or almost all equipment which would fall into the category of having been manufactured expressly for use by handicapped people is already covered by existing exemptions. But I will have a look at the matter, and to the extent that equipment is not already covered, I inform the honourable gentleman that when the legislation comes before the House the Government will see that it is. 
It was such a nice interjection that I could not ignore it. What it really highlights is the point that I was about to make, and that is that what is important is how a government responds to world wide inflationary pressures. In 1973 the Whitlam Government did precisely the wrong thing. Instead of adopting domestic economic policies to contain world wide inflationary pressures, it adopted domestic economic policies that stimulated them. It adopted domestic economic policies which sent expenditure through the roof, which allowed monetary policy to get out of control and which encouraged an explosion of real wages to the extent that in 1974 wages in the manufacturing sector increased by about 38 per cent. By contrast this Government, faced in 1979 with world wide rises in commodity prices, particularly in the price of oil, has adopted a Budget strategy and an economic strategy which are designed to respond to those world wide inflationary pressures. 
Once again, what is the response of the Labor Party? Last night the Leader of the Opposition, on behalf of the alternative government of this country, gave us a speech for almost an hour which said virtually nothing about inflation. He devoted page after page to personal abuse of this side of the House, but barely a sentence of his speech was devoted to inflation. Near the end he could not contain himself. He said that he made no secret of the fact that he would settle for a much larger deficit. That was as far as he was prepared to go. He was not prepared to say how big the deficit would be. He was not prepared to admit that he was advocating an inflationary economic strategy. 
So, once again we have a situation where in the face of a resurgence of inflationary pressure around the world, just as in 1973 the Labor Party wants to stimulate it by a domestic economic policy. If the Labor Party were again given the opportunity to govern this country it would repeat that error and again stimulate world inflation by its domestic economic policies. 
The advice that I have received on this subject from my Department and the total number of people on which the figure is based are set out in the documents attached to the Budget. I inform the honourable member for Port Adelaide that according to my understanding, this is the first occasion for a number of years on which any set of Budget Papers has contained the number of people on which the calculation of unemployment benefits has been based. 
I appreciate the interest of the honourable member in this question. It is an important question. I am conscious of the fact that last year the number of people on which the calculation was based was exceeded. This year the total number of people on which the calculation has been based is, from recollection- I will need to check the figure but I will correct it if I give the wrong figure to the House- of the order of 325,000. That is the figure on which it is based and it is set out in the Budget Papers. There is no deceit. There is no duplicity about it. I know that it is an important figure. It is an honestly arrived at figure; it is not a political figure, and it is that figure I was given by the Treasury. 
-I would like to be able to answer that question. I would like to be able to say whether the Government was prepared to implement the policies of the Leader of the Opposition because, like the Prime Minister, I would like not only to treat the honourable gentleman's questions on their merits, but also to treat his policies on their merits. In trying to answer that question, I ask myself: What is the policy of the Leader of the Opposition on tax indexation? To try to inform myself I have had to go back to the genesis of the debate on tax indexation. That occurred in 1975. The first authoritative word from the Leader of the Opposition came when he was Treasurer. At one stage in 1975 he said, in the context of discussing the various claims that are made on the national exchequer, that to expect increases in education, to expect increases in welfare, to expect greater health benefits and also to expect tax indexation was to ask for the impossible. A little later on that year he said - 
-Just a moment. The honourable member's memory is not as good as he thinks it is. A little later on that year he said that indexing of the new scale would thus be available as an option next year, in the next Budget. But do honourable members know how much later on that year it would be? It was about 10 minutes later on that year because those two statements were contained in the Budget Speech of 1975-76 delivered by the present Leader of the Opposition when he was Treasurer. 
We all know that on 21 July 1979, about five weeks ago, the Leader of the Opposition was interviewed for the  National Times  and he said quite unequivocally: 'Well, we rather like the idea of tax indexation. It's an attractive policy, but really at the moment the people want tax cuts and that is what we'd give them if we were occupying the treasury bench'. Last night he contrived to create the impression that he is now in favour of tax indexation. Perhaps my honourable friend from Isaacs ought to ask me the same question next week because by then we might have an alternative stance from the Leader of the Opposition. The fact of the matter is that the Leader of the Opposition does not know where he stands on tax indexation any more than he knows where he stands on the size of the deficit or the appropriate alternative economic strategy. 
The Opposition invites the Government to compare standards of disposable income, security, housing, food costs and the like of Australian families now with what they were in December 1975. 1 welcome the opportunity that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has given the Government to debate this subject today. I make the observation at the outset that there is no better demonstration that somebody is struggling hard for a convincing argument than when that person resorts to the selective use of statistics and personal denigration. The Leader of the Opposition was a past master at that art in his speech today. 
He said that he was concerned about the living standards of Australian families. I will accept that he may be concerned with the living standards of Australian families. I will accept that there are people in the Opposition who are genuinely concerned about the living standards of Australian families. If that is the case, we ought to ask ourselves, firstly, this very simple question: What is the greatest destroyer of living standards, job security, personal security and family security of Australians? It is nothing other than the level of inflation that this country has. If anybody in the Opposition does not believe that but believes instead that that is a theory which is reserved for the Government side of politics, let him ponder for a moment the words used by the Leader of the Opposition when he was in Government. Let Opposition members ponder what has been said by economists who normally support the Labor Party. The greatest threat to any Western society- that is, to a society such as Australia's- is the level of inflation. Nothing so undermines the security of a family, the sense of wellbeing of a family and the sense of togetherness of a family and gives it a greater sense of desperation than a spiralling level of inflation. Yet, there was not a word about inflation in the speech by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Once again, we have a trilogy. At the Adelaide Conference of the Australian Labor Party, there was deafening silence on inflation. We had in the Leader of the Opposition's response last night, deafening silence on inflation. We have today the Leader of the Opposition worrying about the living standards of Australians, and deafening silence on inflation. The Leader of the Opposition would have us believe that all one needs to do to profess and to establish concern for the wellbeing of Australian families is to come into this House, to shout a few slogans, to quote a few selective statistics and to hurl a bit of personal abuse; in that way one establishes a credible economic alternative. The Australian people will not fall for that as an economic alternative. Unless the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to face the consequences of having an economic policy which is silent on inflation, unless he is prepared to say to the Australian people how big a Budget deficit is appropriate, unless he is prepared to come clean about his taxation policies, unless he is prepared to say how much his alternative health scheme will cost, unless he is prepared to cost his job creating schemes properly- in other words, unless he is prepared to match his rhetoric about economic responsibility to show us that he does have some interest in economics and that he can advance an alternative economic strategy, he is simply not going to be taken seriously by the Australian people. His speech so clearly demonstrates today one very serious, simple fact: The Opposition does not have an answer to inflation. It is totally silent on the subject of inflation. It has not learned anything, nor indeed has it forgotten anything, since it was last in government. In common with the Bourbons whom its former Leader was so fond of quoting, it has learned nothing and forgotten nothing. 
But there are a few matters that the Government has not forgotten over the past  Vh  years. There are a few matters that the Australian people have not forgotten over the past  Vh.  years. There are a few factors that they will remember about their own living standards when next they go into the polling booths of this country. We hear much from the Opposition about the living standards of the Australian people. We hear a lot about the stability of the family. We do not hear anything -from the Opposition about the fact that in 1976 this Government introduced undeniably the most valuable social reform for the Australian family, namely, the family allowance. The Leader of the Opposition does not talk about that subject. He does not say anything about the enormous benefit that that reform was to the living standards of low income earners in the Australian community. 
I wish to say a few words about the improvements that have occurred in the Australian economy in the past 3V4 years and, in particular, in the past 12 months. A debate like this about the living standards of Australian people ought to give us an opportunity to look at what has happened to the Australian economy during the past 12 months. It ought to give us an opportunity to look at some of the things that were said about the Australian economy and about the Government's economic policy. I shall refer to a few spokesmen for the Opposition and, first of all, to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  He is not in the House but I will quote him faithfully. He is the Opposition spokesman on industry and commerce. On 1 1 October last year he had a few things to say about overseas borrowings- not 'those' overseas borrowings, but the overseas borrowings that this Government has quite properly resorted to over the past two years in defence of the Australian dollar. 
We all know, of course, that when the Government embarked upon that overseas borrowing program, honourable members on the other side of the House, including the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Adelaide said that it was a hopeless cause and that the Government had embarked upon the wrong policy. They said that we were in a hopeless situation and that capital was never going to come into Australia because overseas investors had no confidence in the economic policies of this Government. On 11 October 1978 the honourable member for Adelaide asked a number of rhetorical questions. He said: 
Is this why our reserves have been dropping? Is this why we have had to embark on this borrowing program, the latest announcement being made by the Treasurer only last Friday? Or is the crisis due to the Fraser Governmentpromoted stagnation in another way? Because our level of economic activity is so low, does this mean that overseas investors have no confidence in us? There is no capital coming in for real income and job producing programs. 
The interesting thing about that proposition is that he totally miscalculated the attitude of overseas investors towards Australia but, more importantly, acknowledged by that very charge that capital coming into Australia is helpful in creating jobs. By his own words he acknowledged that an injection of private capital into this country is beneficial for employment creating purposes. We all know how wrong the honourable member for Adelaide was back in October 1978. We all know that when the honourable member for Gellibrand, the Leader of the Opposition and other people on that side of the House got up here and berated the Government for following a program of massive overseas borrowings, they were totally wrong. Over the past 12 months there has been a dramatic improvement not only in the competitiveness of this country but also in the perceptions of overseas investors as to our economic strength. Last year saw the highest level of private capital flow that we have seen since 1971-72. Is that the mark of stagnation? Is that the mark of lack of confidence? Is that the mark of people who believe that our economic policies are a failure? Rather, it is a mark of acknowledgment from people overseas that this Government has had the courage to follow the right economic policies and to stick to those policies. They have now voted with their dollars- their investments. They have given this Government's policies an enormous vote of confidence. So I thank the honourable member for Adelaide for saying that overseas investment is helpful in creating jobs in Australia. 
We should assess the impact of alternative economic policies on employment in this country. The Opposition says that we do not care about unemployment because we do not have job creating schemes. That is the only difference between us. That is the only real difference between what the Leader of the Opposition said last night and what we have been saying on unemployment. The great clarion cry of the Opposition is that we do not care about unemployment. The great hallmark of everything it says is that we are totally insensitive to unemployment. Yet when I read the speech that the Leader of the Opposition made last night- I read it very carefully-I found that he had devoted little more than a few lines to initiative so far as unemployment was concerned. He said that he would have a job creation scheme under which he would create 50,000 jobs at an annual expenditure of $85m to $100m. According to my mathematics- I know that the Leader of the Opposition will try to take some advantage of the fact that he reckons my mathematics - are no good- that works out at $40 a week. In other words, he reckons that he can run a job creation scheme by paying $40 a week to the individuals participating in it. What about the materials? What about average weekly earnings? What about the attitude of the trade union movement to that sort of scheme? All that the Opposition has been able to offer - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Batman will remain silent. I ask the House to maintain silence. 
-The fact of the matter is that when it comes to concern about unemployment, the Opposition's statements are total rhetoric. It has not developed an alternative strategy for unemployment. All it does is mouth a few platitudes about job creation. It does not recognise that in the long run we cannot solve the problem of unemployment in this country unless we achieve sustainedly higher levels of economic activity. Any policy that pretends otherwise is totally misconceived and is a cruel deception of those people who are out of work. I repeat that there is only one way in which we can permanently solve the problem of unemployment in this country and that is by achieving sustainedly higher levels of economic activity. It was the destruction of those levels of economic activity in 1973 and 1974 which led to the levels of unemployment that we still suffer in this country. It will only be through the restoration of those levels of economic activity that this country will see a reduction in the level of unemployment that we now experience. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this debate started out with a protestation of concern by the Leader of the Opposition about the living standards of Australian families. I share with the Leader of the Opposition a concern about the living standards of Australian families but I disagree with both his understanding of their present living standards and his recipe for changing those living standards. If the Leader of the Opposition is concerned about the living standards of the 94 per cent of Australians who are in work at present, he will spare a few more thoughts for the level of inflation that his alternative economic policies would give this country. He would devote a little more time to inflation than did the Adelaide conference of his party or than he did in his response last night or in his speech today. But he is not likely to do that, for the very simple reason that when really pinned on the subject of inflation he does not have an answer. He knows very well this Government's record on the level of inflation. He knows very well that in 1973 when this country faced world-wide inflationary pressures, the Government of which he was a senior member and of which he later became Treasurer, fuelled those inflationary pressures by following a totally permissive monetary policy, by allowing expenditure to go through the roof and by encouraging the level of real wages to get out of all hand and to sink the international competitiveness of the Australian economy. 
We will never allow the Leader of the Opposition to forget the way in which his party responded to international inflation in 1973. That is why the Leader of the Opposition is squeamish about inflation and that is why, so long as the Leader of the Opposition comes into this House to debate inflation or the Australian economy, this side of the House will never allow him to forget that when it comes to making an economic statement he is deafeningly silent on inflation, which is the most important single determinant of the living standards of Australians and Australian families. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Details of the balance outstanding on loans obtained by Ansett Transport Industries and guaranteed by the Commonwealth under the provisions of the various Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Acts, as at 31 December in each year since 1968, are set out below. Details as at 30 June in each of those years are not readily available to my Department. 
In the same period, TAA did not undertake any borrowings, on which a Commonwealth guarantee was provided, to finance the purchase of aircraft, but during the period some funds were borrowed by the Commonwealth and on-lent to TAA for aircraft financing. 
The Commonwealth does not maintain any records as to the foreign exchange profits or losses which have occurred on these borrowings. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The most common measure of the rate of inflation in Australia is the Consumer Price Index (CPI), although implicit price deflators derived from the national accounts are also used for this purpose. 
) The rate of inflation measured for either full calendar or fiscal year has not reached 1 9 per cent in the 1 970s. However, if shorter time periods are used for which it is appropriate to calculate annual rates of inflation, then inflation has exceeded 1 9 per cent per annum. This occurred in the second half of 1974 when the CPI increased at an annual rate of 1 9.2 per cent. Other indicators of the rate of inflation also approached or exceeded an annual rate of 19 per cent in this period. 
Using the CPI as the basis of measurement, the quarterly rate of inflation since the March quarter 1972 has been as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Minister for Industrial Relations and I announced  on  3 June 1979 that the Government has decided to amend the arrangements for the transition from the 40  pet  cent to the 20 per cent phase of the investment allowance, as a safeguard to prevent the use of the approach to the cut-out date for the 40 per cent phase to bring pressure to bear on businesses to yield to union demands. 
The law will be amended to enable eligible expenditure incurred up to 3 June 1979 on partly completed plant projects to qualify for the 40 per cent rate of allowance in certain circumstances. Where plant was ordered by 30 June 1978, expenditure incurred by 3 June 1979 on such plant that has been installed by 3 June will attract the 40 per cent rate of allowance- 
As we pointed out in our statement, this decision has been taken to ensure that employers are not exposed to intense industrial pressure as new plant is in the final stages of completion. The decision also demonstrates the Government's commitment to wage restraint and its preparedness to stand behind employers who adopt a firm wages policy in line with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's wage fixing principles. 
Boeing  VIP  Aircraft  (Question No. 3683) 
Perhaps the most conspicuous feature of the alternative revenue proposals presented the other night by the Leader of the Opposition was the vagueness that surrounded them. Unfortunately the Leader of the Opposition was not quite so vague in his address to the National Press Club earlier this year and in his subsequent interview on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program. On both of those occasions he freely admitted that one of the things a Labor government would do would be to restructure the tax scales to raise $200m or $300m more from the top 2 per cent of income earners. The effect of that very benign proposal would be to produce a marginal tax rate of 75c in the dollar. That would be very good news for the sort of incentive that the Australian community wants. I have repeated that charge on a number of occasions and the Leader of the Opposition has remained totally silent, as has the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
If in fact the Leader of the Opposition is going to preserve the existing standard rate and the intermediate rate at their present levels, to get the extra $200m it would be necessary for him to increase to 75c in the dollar the present upper marginal rate, which is an effective rate of 62.57c in the dollar at the moment and which will come down to 60c in the dollar later this year. The Opposition, with its soak-the-rich mentality, may think this a useful exercise in encouraging incentive. The Opposition may think it a useful exercise to make people who happen to earn $27,000 or more the victims of absolutely confiscatory rates of tax. That is not the sort of society that I believe the majority of people, even those who are not on that sort of income, want to see created in this country. If he imagines that that sort of approach to taxation is going to produce sufficient wealth for the vast social welfare progams that no doubt a Labor government would want to perpetuate and increase, I think he has another think coming. 
The funding arrangements for manpower programs announced in the Budget reflect two things. They reflect a reduction in the amount of funds being made available in respect of the SYETP following a tightening of the eligibility guidelines which applied to earlier programs. All that the tightening of those guidelines will do is to ensure that the people who will be subsidised are those who would not otherwise be able to obtain work or training. There is nothing at all wrong with that proposition. Just because a government is concerned about an area of activity in the economy does not mean that it is relieved of the obligation to ensure that in the provision of funds the programs are cost efficient. Just because the Government is concerned about the need to have viable training programs and to improve the skills of people who are out of work does not relieve this Government of the responsibility to ensure that the funds that we do make available are spent in the most effective way. So, that is the reason why there has been a reduction in that area. It has nothing at all to do with unconcern about unemployment. It does not reflect a lower priority so far as training programs are concerned. It merely reflects a desire on the part of the Government to see that the taxpayer's dollar is used in the most effective fashion. 
Not only is that the position in respect of those programs but the honourable gentleman, of course, allows to go unremarked the fact that the amount of money made available under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training schemes has been increased by about $26m. That fact ought not to go unremarked. This Government makes no apology whatsoever for adopting an approach to employment which is based upon improving conditions in the private sector so that more jobs are created. The honourable member asks me about the implications of what is contained in both the Budget Speech and the Budget Papers. I have nothing to add to what is in the Budget Papers or the Budget Speech. They were flat and candid statements of how the Government sees the situation regarding employment and prospects of improvements in the level of unemployment. 
I make no secret of the fact that we do not believe that the prospects for a fall in unemployment are good. There are reasons for that. We reject the glib assertion by the Opposition- the glibness of it was amply demonstrated the other night by the Leader of the Opposition in his reply to the Budget- that the unemployment problem can be cured by some kind of gimmicky job creation scheme. The Leader of the Opposition said that he would create 50,000 jobs by spending $85m to $100m a year. That works out at $40 a week for each person. The Leader of the Opposition shakes his head. What about the materials that the workers will need? What about average weekly earnings? What about the attitude of the trade union movement to this sort of scheme? 
The speech of the Leader of the Opposition was supposed to address the twin problems of the economy today; that is, inflation and unemployment. It was deafeningly silent on both subjects. Not only did the Leader of the Opposition devote no more than a few lines to inflation but also the problem of unemployment about which he professes so much concern barely received better treatment. He said that we would hear all about it from the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I say to the honourable member for Port Adelaide that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and I will wait with bated breath to hear the great alternative approach that the Opposition has to the problem of unemployment. 
No. 
I am not aware of the specific conference to which the honourable member for Prospect has referred. He has of course once again raised an issue which illustrates that members of the Labor Party are past masters at getting keen on an idea once they have seen that somebody else is doing it. As the honourable gentleman's question has suggested, the Labor Party is now starting to get interested in alleged abuses of the taxation system. It has taken a long time for the Labor Party to do that. I say to the honourable member for Prospect that, as far as I am concerned, the taxation laws of this country ought to contain provision for the deduction of reasonable expenses incurred in connection with conferences which involve professional and educational activities involved in a person's business or profession. There is no reason in the world why the taxation laws of this country ought not to include reasonable provision for matters of that nature. All that the honourable member for Prospect and other members of the Opposition do by raising these types of matters is to illustrate again and again how sensitive they are to the fact that when they were in government they did nothing about the real abuses of the taxation system. 
My attention has been drawn to the article to which the honourable member for Calare referred. I can tell the honourable member that it is wrong. The statement that I made on 26 July made it quite clear that income from deceased estates would not be included. I make it clear to the honourable member for Calare also that when the legislation is presented to the Parliament it will likewise ensure that circumstances erroneously referred to by  Mr Risstrom  are not caught by the changes. 
I have seen the price index to which the Leader of the Opposition has referred. The figures that he mentioned are substantially correct. While I am on the subject of price indices, perhaps I should inform the Leader of the Opposition of some other figures which have come out fairly recently and which are relevant to the international competitiveness of Australia. They illustrate that for the 12 months to July 1979 Australia's rate of inflation as measured by the consumer price index- the Leader of the Opposition was referring to the consumer price index in his question- was 8.8 per cent, whereas the average for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries was 10 per cent. The interesting point is that over the last six months regrettably - 
-That is just where the Leader of the Opposition is wrong, because over the last six months the gap between Australia 's rate and the rate of the OECD countries has broadened. Over the six months to July 1979 the rate in Australia was 9 per cent, whereas the average for OECD countries was 12.9 per cent. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'While they are coming down, we are going up'. The fact of the matter as I said in the Budget Speech and as members of the Government have not tried to disguise, is that there are inflationary pressures around the world. What really matters is the effect of domestic economic policy in containing those inflationary pressures in Australia. It is in that regard that the Government differs from the Opposition. 
We have an effective policy to contain domestic inflation, whereas the Opposition does not. 
The Leader of the Opposition talks about energy. He has an Alice in Wonderland energy policy which he says will achieve three things. Firstly, the Opposition's policy is to continue to encourage exploration and development; secondly, to reduce the price of petrol; and, thirdly, to increase revenue from the crude oil levy. They are the three mutually contradictory things which the Leader of the Opposition says that his energy policy will produce. The truth of the matter is that over the last two weeks since the Budget was brought down neither he nor his colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland, has had the courage to spell out anywhere in Australia what the Opposition's energy policy really is. The Opposition does not have an effective policy because it is mutually contradictory. 
-The Leader of the Opposition is getting deeper and deeper into fairyland on this subject. The fact of the matter is that I said in my answer that I was using figures that compared consumer price increases as measured by comparable means in all the OECD countries. The Leader of the Opposition reckons that the consumer price index for the end of July was rigged. If he wants to apply that double standard, the figure of 14 per cent that I used in the Budget Speech as being the rate of inflation in Australia for the 12 months to December 1975 would be closer to 1 6 per cent or 1 7 per cent. The Leader of the Opposition knows as well as I do that, as Treasurer, he had an artificially low figure of 0.9 per cent in the September quarter of 1975 through the rigging of the system with the introduction of Medibank. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) the OPTACON device is among the goods for use by the blind for which exemption from sales tax will be provided by the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 which was introduced on 21 August 1979. The Bill provides that the exemption will be effective from 22 August 1979. 
Equipment for the Blind: Sales Tax (Question No. 2764) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 which was introduced on 2 1 August 1979 will provide for exemption from sales tax for goods designed and manufactured expressly for use by blind persons, being goods of a kind not ordinarily used by persons who are not blind. Under the provisions ofthe Bill the exemption will be effective from 22 August 1979. It will replace an existing, but more limited, exemption for articles used by blind persons. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to correct a figure which I gave in a speech to the House on 22 August. 
My attention has been drawn to a call by the  president  of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party for a protest by local government councils throughout Australia against the federalism policy. I have to say to the honourable gentleman that I do not read the  Knox Sherbrooke News  every day, although the particular edition to which he referred has been drawn to my attention. All I wish to say in response to the question of the honourable member for La Trobe is that any political figure in Australia who thinks that he is on the right track and that he is going to win votes by advocating opposition to this Government's federalism policy is very sadly mistaken. No other area of the Government's federalism policy has received more support throughout Australia than has our policy of giving greater assistance to local government. 
At the last election we made a commitment to increase the percentage share of revenue to local government throughout Australia to 2 per cent. A decision announced in the last Budget has increased that share from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. We have indicated that the commitment to increase the share to 2 per cent will be met in full by the time the next Budget is introduced. This commitment will mean that all local government units in Australia- there are over 900 of them- will have greater access to funds. There is a sensible arrangement between the Commonwealth Government and the six State governments of Australia to provide to all local government councils per capita assistance and then topping up grants on the recommendation of local government commissions in the various States. 
The Government's federalism policy has meant that in the electorate of the honourable member for La Trobe, for example, the amount of money going to the Knox City Council has increased by approximately 80 per cent to 100 per cent. The local government councils in the electorate of every member of this House, including those represented by members of the Labor Party who are now interjecting- 
-The five local government councils in the electorate of the honourable member for Melbourne have done extremely well. The honourable member does not realise how well he has done. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) During the years 1975 to 1979, the Department of the Treasury has commissioned one survey. Details are as follows: 
1 ) One survey in 1979: completed. 
) (a) Bennett Research Pty Ltd, Sydney, NSW. 
Subject Matter. A quantitative awareness and attitude study on Australian Savings Bonds. Purpose: To assess awareness and acceptability of Australian Savings Bonds in the market place and to assess the effectiveness of current advertising techniques used for publicising ASB 's. 
Six thousand dollars. 
b) The Australian Statistician has provided the following information in respect of surveys carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics does not conduct surveys which are considered to be opinion polls. It does conduct surveys of households to collect statistics on economic and social questions. 
Household surveys conducted by the ABS from 1 975-76 to 1978-79 are as follows: 
Population Survey 
Household Expenditure Survey 1975-76 
Australian Health Survey 1977-78 
NSW Health Care Survey 1 975 
Survey of population, employment and housing in the Sunbury /Melton area of Victoria 1975 
SA Bread Industry Survey 1975 
Survey of Housing in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong 1978. 
The Population Survey is a continuing survey and results are published regularly. All the other surveys have been completed, although not all processing has been finished. 
(a) None. 
The surveys listed in ( 1 ) above are used to obtain information on subjects such as employment, health care needs, and housing, for use by Commonwealth, State and Local Government Authorities, industry associations and the public. Information on topics such as working conditions, household income and expenditure patterns, labour force experience and mobility and preferences and demands for housing is collected in response to specific demands for detailed statistical data. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is yes, there is a population factor and a State's share of personal income tax depends on its population as estimated at 3 1 December in a particular financial year. There is also a population factor in the formula used for calculating the guaranteed minimum payment to each State. It is estimated at present that in 1979-80 all States will receive their guaranteed minimum payment. The population figures used to adjust all States are the Commonwealth Statistician's estimates for the end of December in each year. The original levels on which Queensland 's population increase is based were underestimated prior to the 1976 census. While the population increases are accurate, the under-enumeration of the bases meant that Queensland has received a lower level of funding through this method than otherwise. That problem has been looked at and remains under examination by Commonwealth and State officers as well as by the Premiers Conference. I should point out to the honourable member that Queensland is the only State in Australia receiving special financial assistance through the Commonwealth Grants Commission, and in assessing the level of that assistance the Commission takes account of the actual levels of payment made to Queensland and adjusts its recommendations accordingly, to ensure that Queensland is not disadvantaged as a result of the underestimate of population prior to 1 976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The provisions of section 10 of the Life Insurance Amendment Act 1977 were designed to enable the Life Insurance Commissioner to oversight the investments by life offices in certain classes of assets where such investments were in excess of specified limits- in particular, investments in related companies, other life companies, unit trusts and investment companies. However, following passage of the legislation some sections of the industry expressed the view that the additional investment restrictions could interfere with efficient management of life office investments. I have indicated to the industry that I have decided not to proceed with the proclamation of the relevant section at this stage but to first seek appropriate amendments. I have also indicated that I am sympathetic with the Commissioner's views on the matter and I have expressed the hope that the necessary amendments can be introduced in the current sittings of Parliament. The proposed amendments, which are being prepared in consultation with the industry, are generally in the direction of making the provisions less restrictive. 
It is true, as the honourable member for Tangney says, that I have commented favourably on a recommendation of the Asprey report that an independent advisory committee on taxation be established. I can tell the honourable member and the House that the Government has approved a recommendation of mine that such a committee be established. I believe that it will make a valuable contribution to the advice on taxation matters currently coming to the Government. The committee will complement that advice and not compete with it. 
I am presently giving consideration to the personnel who might be invited to serve on the committee and who might be interested in serving on the committee, and I have sought the views of a number of professional and other organisations as to suitable people. I hope within a matter of a few weeks to be able to announce both the personnel of the committee and the precise terms of reference of the committee. I see this particular committee as playing a very valuable role, particularly in terms of giving alternative technical advice to the Government on what is undoubtedly an act of this Parliament of continuing relevance to everybody. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes. I first saw a letter last night, I think from a firm of solicitors on behalf of the trustees, but I was previously aware of an approach and I can tell the honourable gentleman that the matter is currently being considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount of calls in respect of on-shore petroleum exploration that would have resulted in a reduction in income tax revenue in the years mentioned if a shareholder rebate scheme on the basis proposed in the Budget had applied to on-shore petroleum is not known. However, an indication of the reduction in income tax revenue attributable to such a scheme is given in the attachments to the 1979-80 Budget Speech in which the full-year figures was estimated at $6m. It should be noted that this represents the revenue to be foregone in the first full year of operation of the new arrangements. To the extent that the exploration is successful and results in sufficient income, the consequential reduction in the deductions that would otherwise be obtained by mining companies in respect of exploration and development expenditure would offset the rebate, so that there would be no ultimate revenue cost. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Exemption under sub-section 23 (kc) applies only to pensions, annuities and allowances paid by a State of the Federal Republic of Germany as compensation to victims of National Socialist persecution. 
Yes. 
No. The pensions paid by the West German Government have always been exempt from German taxation in the hands of German residents and would have been subject to Australian tax in the hands of Australian residents but for the exemption provided by sub-section 23 (kc). That sub-section was enacted to avoid upsetting a tax-free pension arrangement set up by the paying Government. Unlike the West German pensions, those paid by the Dutch Government are subject to Netherlands taxation when received by Dutch residents. By reason of the Australian-Netherlands Double Taxation Agreement, they are subject to Australian tax when received by Australian residents. It would not be appropriate for these pensions, being subject to Netherlands tax in the hands of Dutch residents, to be exempt from tax when received by Australian residents. 
Taxation: On-shore Petroleum Exploration (Question No. 3582) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Individual taxpayers were asked for the first time to state their year of birth on income tax return forms for the 1 977- 78 income year. This information is being sought again in the 1978-79 return forms. Income tax statistics that would indicate the income tax payable by persons of retirement age are, however, not yet available. It is expected that they will be available for inclusion in Taxation Statistics 1978-79, the supplement to the Commissioner's annual report for 1 978- 79. This will be available for presentation to the Parliament during the 1980-81 Budget Sittings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Using the Consumer Price Index (CPI) as the basis of measurement, the quarterly rate of inflation (percentage increase on previous quarter) in 1 970 and 1971 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the announcement in my Statement to the House on 24 May 1979 I indicated in public statements on the changes to the health care system that those changes would add about 0.9 percentage points to the CPI during 1 979-80. That calculation was necessarily based on increases in health insurance contributions assumed at that time by the Government's advisers in that area. In the event, the increases subsequently announced by health funds have been lower that earlier assumed, and it now seems that the CPI effect will correspondingly be somewhat less than 0.9 percentage points. A more precise estimate must await publication of the relevant CPI figures. 
and (c) The connection between these measures and final consumer prices is too diffuse and indirect to make it possible, even after the event, to determine with confidence the magnitude and timing of their impact on the CPI. However, so far as effects on business cash flows in 1979-80 are concerned it should be noted that taxation assessments in that year will be based on the income year 1978-79, in respect of which the stock valuation adjustment will continue to apply. 
Since the price paid by refineries for all domestic crude was raised to import parity in the 1978-79 Budget, changes in the crude oil levy arrangements do not affect the CPI. 
The CPI is affected, of course, by the flow through of changes in the import parity price. In an address to the Australian Finance Conference on 23 July 1979 I indicated that oil price increases were expected to add directly around1 percentage points to the rise in the CPI in 1979. Of this, around1 percentage point is expected to flow through in the second half of 1979. The Budget estimates make no allowance for any possible further changes in the import parity price during the balance of this financial year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(2). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) Information in respect of 1 977-78 and the first six months of 1 978-79 is shown in the following tables. For the purpose of these tables tourists are defined as overseas visitors to Australia who indicated an intended length of stay of less than a year. Country of last residence was obtained, rather than country of origin. Persons accompanying business travellers are included in 'other categories '. Statistics for visitors from countries not separately shown are available but, because they are based on a sample of all visitors, the estimates derived from very small numbers are too unreliable for most purposes. 
-While I was absent I noticed reports of proposals, mainly emanating from the Opposition in this Parliament, that there should be a change in the Government's economic strategy in the name of being more effective in reducing unemployment. I tell the honourable gentleman and the members of the Opposition that the single most important impression that I gained more than ever before from the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Belgrade and discussions that I had with my counterparts in the governments of the United States of 
America, Britain, Germany, France and other industrialised countries was the unanimity of opinion amongst those countries as to the need to defeat inflation as a fundamental pre-condition of lasting economic growth and therefore a recovery in employment levels. 
Country after country which has tinkered with the policies now advanced by the Opposition has abandoned them. If members of the Opposition doubt that I invite them to look at what the former British Labour Government was doing to the job creation schemes that were established by the Wilson and Callaghan governments in the 1970s. I invite them to examine the communique issued by the interim committee of the International Monetary Fund after its meeting in Belgrade a couple of weeks ago. It stated, among other things, that the committee emphasised that the main task of economic policy was to contain inflationary pressures and to reduce inflationary expectations. I draw the attention of honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House to the increased emphasis now being placed by the United States Government on containing inflation. In that context I welcome the measures recently announced by the  Chairman  of the Federal Reserve which are designed to constrain the rate of growth of the money supply in the United States and also to introduce quantitative controls on the volume of credit in that country. 
All around the industrialised world governments are reaffirming in a stronger manner than ever before the importance of fighting inflation as a fundamental pre-condition to economic growth. There is no greater hoax in the economic debate in Australia at the present time than the proposition that one can defeat unemployment by allowing inflation to go up. Nothing has altered the simple economic truth that the only way effectively to fight unemployment in this country is to defeat inflation, and that is why more than ever before this Government does not intend to make any alteration to the fundamental basis of its economic policies. 
-Section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, as honourable members will know, is the general anti-avoidance section which was inserted many years ago. As a consequence of successive decisions of the High Court of Australia, the section now has a more limited operation than was originally the case. The Government has been engaged in trying to rewrite the section for a number of months. A draft of the section was completed by Parliamentary Counsel and the Taxation Office some weeks ago and on my instructions the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor briefed senior and junior counsel in Melbourne and Sydney to settle the draft of the section. So far I have received one of the combined opinions from two of the counsel involved and I am presently awaiting the second opinion. When that has been received, I, in consultation with my advisers in this respect, will consider those opinions and their impact upon the draft. 
The Government attaches a good deal of importance to the successful rewriting of section 260, for two reasons. Firstly, I believe that the Income Tax Assessment Act should, in the name of effective anti-avoidance, contain a general antiavoidance provision. I think that is a view that would be shared by honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House. Secondly, I believe that in the course of rewriting the section we should be careful that it is done in a way that makes it effective to detect tax avoidance but at the same time ensure that it is not written in such a general fashion as to cast an unnecessary pall over ordinary and thoroughly legitimate commercial transactions. It is for that reason that the Government is taking very considerable pains, through briefing private counsel, to make sure, to put it shortly, that we get it right. 
I do not believe, in view of the time scale involved, that it would be possible to expose a draft of the section before the House rises, but it is my intention, when I have completed a draft of it and it has been approved by the Government, to make that draft public and to invite comment upon it from all interested parties from both sides of the House so that, when the Parliament resumes in the New Year, we will be in a position, in the light of those comments, to present to the Parliament for adoption what will then be regarded as a satisfactory rewrite of section 260. 
While I am on this subject, I take the opportunity of publicly commending some remarks made recently in the Journal of the Institute of Chartered Accountants by  Mr Bishop,  the  President  of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. He drew attention to the obligations of members of that profession so far as advice in respect of tax avoidance practices is concerned. I believe that  Mr Bishop,  in giving that advice, displayed very considerable courage and displayed a conspicuous sensitivity to the responsibilities of his office. I believe that all of us who think that there is merit in members of the legal and accountancy professions accepting a sense of responsibility in these matters ought to pay particular tribute to  Mr Bishop's  stand and his remarks. 
-I thank the honourable member for Barton for that question because I believe that some unfortunate confusion and doubt has arisen from this Budget measure. I make it clear to the honourable member that the Government has given very careful consideration to many representations that have been received. As I indicated in the Press statement which I made yesterday, the Government intends to adhere to the Budget decision. I indicated in that statement that because of the application of the commencement date the measure will not affect cars and station wagons which were ordered or were on hand prior to the time of the Budget. In those circumstances, in effect, some kind of transitional period will be allowed. That will obviate severe liquidity problems that might- I stress the word 'might'- have been experienced by a limited number of dealers. 
I will arrange as soon as possible for details of the announcement and any anticipated questions arising out of it to be circulated to all motor dealers in Australia. I am aware, for example, that some dealers did not know that under the Budget decision all lease charges will remain totally tax deductible, provided a business use can be established. Equally, some people were under the impression that the measure in some way affects vehicles purchased entirely or partly for private use. Of course, that has never been the case. The measure was designed simply to put a ceiling on the amount that can be claimed for depreciation purposes for the business use of a motor car or station wagon. 
I think it is a fair measure that will be seen by the community as having been taken in the interests of tax equity. I think that the interruption in sales which has been alleged by a number of dealers in recent weeks has been due more to an anticipation that the measure may be reversed than the actual effect of the measure. Some of the evidence available to the Government, particularly that regarding motor vehicles which are priced only just above $18,000, indicates that this is almost certainly the case. I make it clear to the honourable member that the Government has looked very carefully at the measure. We have decided not to alter it. The modification I announced last night will be the only modification to it. The necessary legislation will be introduced in due course. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is introduced in conjunction with the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5) 1979 which proposes certain changes to the terms and conditions applying to the income equalisation deposits arrangements for primary producers. As I indicated in introducing the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5) 1979, the present limit of $100,000 on total deductions in respect of holdings of income equalisation deposits and drought bonds is to be increased to $250,000. Consistent with that, the amount above which any excess deposits may be repaid at any time under the Loan (Income Equalisation Deposits) Act 1976 is, by this Bill, to be increased from $100,000 to $250,000. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is yes. The honourable member has drawn my attention to it about a dozen times. The answer to the second part of the question relates to part, I think, of the explanatory memoranda which are available with income tax returns and which draw the attention of people who make payments in respect of life assurance and superannuation and who may not have concessional expenditures which exceed $1,590 to the need to supply the Commissioner of Taxation with details of contributions for life assurance and superannuation which may not be the subject of a claim for a concessional deduction, so that upon the retirement of those persons, certain benefits can be calculated and made available. 
I think the honourable member has raised a very practical point. He has made a very sensible suggestion. I will talk to the Commissioner of Taxation about his proposal. I think it is a very sensible one and I think that the Commissioner's being able to accommodate it within the form in the final shape of the taxation return is ultimately something to be determined by the Commissioner of Taxation and not by me. I think it is a sensible idea. If the honourable gentleman's suggestion is adopted I believe that a number of taxpayers, including one I know very well, who have not furnished that sort of information in the past will do so in future. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains measures to give legislative effect to three decisions that have been announced by the Government. One set of measures will deny income tax deductions for paper losses created by tax avoidance schemes initiated in a year of income and, because of insufficiency of income in that year to absorb them, carried forward to later years. Another will ease some limits on deductions for income equalisation deposits and the third will change arrangements for the transition from the 40 per cent phase of the investment allowance to the 20 per cent phase. 
Carry-forward of tax avoidance losses 
I announced this major initiative against tax avoidance on 24 May 1979 in this House. Its implementation will mean that paper losses generated in earlier years by tax avoidance schemes against which the Government has acted, but which were entered into before the operative date of the relevant remedial legislation, will not be allowed as income tax deductions. As I indicated in my original statement, this is necessary to prevent the substantial losses to the revenue in 1979-80 and later years that there would be if claims to carry forward these purely artificial deductions were conceded. 
The impact of tax avoidance activity on revenue collections, despite action by the Government to control the problem, is shown in the estimated revenue loss of some $230m in 1978-79 that is attributable to that activity. Of potentially greater significance in the particular context of this Bill, however, is the fact that claims exceeding $ 1,600m have been made to the Commissioner of Taxation for the deduction of paper losses from tax avoidance schemes carried out in 1977-78 and against which the Government has acted. The greater part of this amount- some $ 1,000m- would, if the claims were to succeed and in the absence of the measures proposed in this Bill, be carried forward for deduction against income of the 1 978-79 income year and later years. 
The size of the threatened loss is noteworthy in itself, but there is also cause for concern in the fact that a relatively few taxpayers have, to such an extent, sought to manufacture tax deductions of a magnitude that would, if the schemes were effective, shield them from tax liability for many years ahead. As I made plain in my announcement on 24 May, the Government could not accept this position, having regard to the interests of other taxpayers and of the community generally. 
I do not think that I need to speak at length about the range of carry-forward losses that the present Bill deals with. An explanatory memorandum contains details of the proposals and it seems enough in this introductory speech to say that the Bill will debar the carry-forward from one year to another of paper losses generated in, to use convenient shorthand terms, Curran-type schemes, trading stock schemes, pre-payment schemes and expenditure recoupment schemes. 
The amendments will means that losses generated in such schemes in the 1977-78 or prior income years, and before the applicable operative date of relevant remedial legislation, will not be deductible as carry-forward losses in 1978-79 or any later income year. As the applicable operative date of some of the remedial measures falls in 1978-79, the Bill will also debar carry-forward loss deductions for paper losses created in 1978-79 and before that date. I add that the Bill also contains necessary safeguarding measures to ensure that the denial of carryforward deductions is not circumvented by arrangements designed to give a formally different character to paper losses that have been generated by the particular tax avoidance schemes. 
Income Equalisation Deposits 
On 14 June 1979, I announced the Government's decision to change certain terms and conditions applying to income equalisation deposits arrangements for primary producers. Income equalisation deposits are a means of helping primary producers to set aside funds in good years so as to have them available in a year or years when income is significantly lower. For this purpose, income tax deductions are, with certain limitations, available for amounts deposited. Corresponding amounts are included in assessable income in an income year in which deposits are withdrawn. 
The present limitations on deductions allowable for deposits are to be eased in two respects. First, the limit on deductions allowable in any one year will be increased from 40 per cent to 60 per cent of the producer's gross receipts from primary production. Secondly, the present limit of $100,000 on total deductions in respect of holdings of income equalisation deposits and drought bonds at any one time will be increased to $250,000. Both of these changes are to apply in respect of the 1978-79 income year and subsequent years. 
Investment allowance 
The Bill also contains provisions to implement the Government's decision that I announced jointly with the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on 3 June last to amend arrangements for the transition from the 40 per cent to the 20 per cent phase of the investment allowance. 
As the law stands, the 40 per cent rate applies where plant ordered, or commenced to be constructed by the taxpayer, by 30 June 1978 was completed and in use for income producing purposes by 30 June 1 979. The lower rate applies for plant not brought into use by 30 June 1 979. This means that a delay in installation of even a few days could result in the allowance on the entire cost of new plant being halved. In these circumstances, employees stood to be seriously disadvantaged by unreasonable industrial demands during the latter stages of completion of new plant projects as 30 June 1979 approached. The decision announced on 3 June was designed to ensure that pressure of this kind did not have that result. 
The amendment proposes that, where eligible plant was ordered by 30 June 1978 or its construction by the taxpayer commenced by that date, the 40 per cent rate is to apply to the extent to which expenditure incurred on the plant by the date of the announcement- 3 June 1979- is attributable to the part of the plant installed in its operating position by that date. As is the case under the existing law, the deduction will be allowable in the year in which the plant is first used or installed ready for use and held in reserve. 
I mention at this point that the Government will, in the Committee stage of the related Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979, be proposing certain technical amendments to that Bill. Because of the interrelationship between the two Bills, and as the Government will be proposing that they be dealt with in cognate debate, it is appropriate that I should now foreshadow the amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4). 
When I brought that Bill before the House I invited comment from interested outside groups. Comments received have been valuable and have led the Government to propose several amendments that will clarify certain provisions of the Bill. In this context, I express my particular gratitude to the contributions made by the Taxation Institute of Australia to consideration of this Bill. A number of the proposals made by the Institute in a very constructive and helpful fashion have been accepted by the Government and form the basis of the amendments that will be proposed during the Committee stage. 
Foreshadowed amendments are now available to honourable members. They include some others of a technical kind that on review have been found necessary or desirable. One of these is consequential on the general prohibition against the carry-forward of paper losses that is a subject of the present Bill. The explanatory memorandum that I referred to earlier gives detailed explanations of all the provisions of the Bill and there is also available a supplementary explanatory memorandum dealing with the amendments to be proposed to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4). I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on the motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-The explanatory memorandum should be circulated by now. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment to Queensland of $12.4m in 1979-80 as a special grant. The payment of this amount is in accordance with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission contained in its forty-sixth report on special assistance for the States which was tabled together with the Commission's first report for 1979 on special assistance for the Northern Territory. 
In accordance with normal practice, the Bill also seeks authority for payment of advances to Queensland in the early months of 1980-81, pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year and enactment of necessary legislation to provide for any special grant that may be payable to the State in that year. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission has also recommended a special grant of $ 10m for the Northern Territory in 1979-80. However, in this regard no amount has been included in the Bill because, under arrangements agreed between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory governments, the Territory will receive an additional assistance grant of $20m in 1 979-80 in lieu of the special grant of $ 10m. The financial arrangements agreed between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory are set out in a memorandum of understanding, the main features of which are outlined in Chapter V of Budget Paper No. 7, Payments To or For the States, the Northern Territory and Local Government Authorities 1979-80. The memorandum of understanding provides phase-in arrangements under which the Northern Territory will receive, in addition to other payments, an additional assistance grant or a special grant, whichever is the greater. The level of the additional assistance grant is $20m for each of the three years 1979-80 to 1981-82. It will be phased out over the following three years. Provision for the 1979-80 additional assistance payment of $20m to the Northern Territory is made in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1979-80. 
It has been the practice of the Commonwealth Government from time to time on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission and following applications by States, to make special grants to the less populous States to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own sources and higher costs of providing government services of a standard comparable to that provided by the financially stronger States. The Northern Territory has now also been given access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission on the same basis as a claimant State subject to the arrangements already outlined regarding the additional assistance grant. When such special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance to the financially weaker States for this purpose. However, for many years now, the main way in which special compensatory assistance has been provided to these States has been through the payment of higher per capita amounts of other general revenue funds. This situation is reflected today in the fact that personal income tax sharing entitlements paid to Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are higher, in per capita terms, than the entitlements paid to New South Wales and Victoria. 
Under the personal income tax sharing arrangements, the less populous States continue to be free to apply for special financial assistance on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. This is one of the explicit understandings between the Commonwealth and State governments in relation to the tax sharing arrangements. Such special grants supplement a State's entitlement under the tax sharing arrangements in the same way as they formerly supplemented the financial assistance grants. Queensland has been the only claimant State in recent years. Tasmania made an application on 30 June 1978 for special assistance in respect of 1977-78, but subsequently withdrew the application. Queensland's estimated entitlement in respect of 1979-80 under the personal income tax sharing arrangements is $947.8m, representing approximately $431 per head of population compared with an estimated average of approximately $323 per head for New South Wales and Victoria. Accordingly, the assistance provided by way of the special grant should be seen as supplementing the special compensatory assistance of $109 per head, or some $239m, provided to Queensland by way of its tax sharing entitlement. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission, in arriving at its recommendations in relation to claims for special assistance, makes an assessment of the financial needs of a claimant State or the Northern Territory. In making such assessments, the Commission compares in detail the finances of the claimant State or the Northern Territory with those of New South Wales and Victoria, taking into account differences in revenue-raising capacity and differences in the cost of providing comparable services. Normally special grants recommended by the Commission consist of two parts. One part is based on a preliminary estimate of the financial need of the claimant State or the Northern Territory in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment two years later when the Commission has compared in detail the finances of the claimant State or Northern Territory and standard States for that year. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made two years earlier and is known as the completion payment. This adjustment may be positive or negative and therefore may result in the final grant in respect of the year being higher or lower than the advance payment for that year. 
The payment to Queensland in 1979-80 of $ 12.4m provided for by this Bill comprises an advance payment of $1 lm in respect of 1979-80 and a completion payment of $ 1 .4m in respect of 1977-78. The completion payment in respect of 1977-78, when added to the $ 14m advance grant paid to Queensland in that year, brings the final grant in respect of 1977-78 to $ 15.4m, which is $8. 3m below the corresponding figure for 1976-77. The advance grant for 1979-80 will, in accordance with normal practice, be subject to adjustment in two years time. The Commission's recommendations in relation to the special grants arrangements have been adopted by the Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-I submit that no matter of privilege is raised by what the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  has put to the House. 

 Honourable members interjecting- 

If it suits the wishes of the House and you,  Mr Speaker,  I will seek your guidance as to the appropriate form in which I may make a submission on the matters raised by the honourable member for Batman. I simply wish to draw to the attention of the House some facts that relate to what the honourable member for Batman said. Some of the things that the honourable member said are, according to the information in my possession, correct. It is true that the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation invited the Department of the Treasury to respond to a series of questions. It is true that, by a response of 3 July 1979, the Secretary to the Treasury responded to those questions in the questionnaire of the Committee which were of a non-policy character. In that same letter the Secretary to the Treasury indicated that he did not propose to respond to those questions asked by the Committee which sought the views of the Treasury on policy matters. The view was taken, quite properly in my submission, by the Secretary to the Treasury, that it is not the role of public servants to express and formulate government policy, particularly before committees. Rather, it is the role of public servants to respond to requests for factual information by committees. 
The Committee asked the Treasury to prepare a written submission to the Committee in this particular matter. Because the matter was before the Government at that particular time, the Treasury took the view that it would not be appropriate to furnish a written submission to the Committee. This in no way represents contempt by the Treasury or by any officer of the Treasury of the committee processes of this Parliament. I point out to the honourable member for Batman and to the House that in all of those cases where committees have requested written submissions from the Treasury in the time that I have been Treasurer- except on those occasions when the matter has been directly before the Government at the time the request was being made, or it has been a matter in respect of which the Treasury's capacity to provide a useful submission is very minimal- the Treasury has readily responded by providing a written submission. The charge of the honourable member, that the Treasury has been guilty of contempt of his Committee or any other committee, is without foundation. I do not believe that any case of privilege has been established. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (Hindmarsh)After the Committee of Privileges has dealt with the matter, if you,  Mr Speaker,  decide that it should go to the Committee of Privileges, the House can determine whether there has been a contempt of the Parliament. I can understand a public servant saying to a committee: 'I am under the instructions of my Minister not to answer that question'. That is a legitimate response from a public servant if the Minister has given him that instruction. That is a precedent that was laid down on several occasions, the last of which related to the loans affair. Public servants were called upon to answer questions in the Senate, and they all replied that they had received written instructions from their respective Ministers not to answer the questions. The question on that occasion became one of whether the Minister had the authority to issue the instruction. If he did not, it would have been the Minister who would have been in contempt of the Parliament, not the public servant. 
As far as we can discover, on this occasion no Minister gave the public servant concerned directions not to answer the questions put to him by the Parliament's committee. Had the public servant responded by saying: "That is a policy matter and consequently I wm need to obtain the approval of my Minister before I can answer it', the committee could have had no possible complaint. Its members would have been obligated, if they were fair, to stop pressing the question until the public servant had sought and obtained permission or had been refused permission to - 
My attention has been drawn to a very detailed study of this particular problem which appeared in a recent issue of the magazine, the  Economist,  and which studies the incidence of tax evasion through cash payments in Europe. I would have to say to the honourable gentleman that one would have to be extremely naive to pretend that there is not an incidence of this activity in Australia also. It is impossible for somebody to quantify anywhere near precisely the extent to which it occurs. To the extent that it does occur, it does place a much greater burden on either those who are not in a position to do it or alternatively those who are in a position to do it but who choose not to do it. 
The Government has had under study for a period the possibility of some changed arrangements regarding certain industries where it is believed the incidence of cash payments is greater than in others. I can say to the honourable gentleman that that study will continue. In framing any counter-measures in this area, the Government must of course be sure that the effect of those counter-measures is not heavyhanded and that it does not impose unfair burdens and unfair obligations on honest citizens and on those who are quite prepared to bear their taxation burdens. I can assure the honourable gentleman that, just as this Government remains concerned to curb what might loosely be called sophisticated tax avoidance arrangements, it is equally concerned to take appropriate measures against outright and illegal tax evasion of the type that the honourable gentleman has described. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply to House of Representatives Question No. 4299 provided by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Hansard,11  September 1979, page 972). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to the statement by the Australian Industries Development Association to which the honourable member refers. As to the substance of the statement, available data point to large increases in investment in plant and equipment in the June quarter 1978 and throughout 1978-79. This pattern is consistent with the assumption that the phasing down of the investment allowance for orders placed after 30 June 1978 did create a build-up of orders prior to that date. It is not possible to provide any direct evidence as to whether there has been increased reliance on overseas suppliers. A large share of capital investment goods in Australia has always been supplied from overseas. The evidence available suggests that there has also been an increase in local production of capital equipment. 
Imports of capital goods and industrial transport equipment, as defined in table 5 of the ABS publication 5406.0, increased by 13.1 per cent in current prices in 1977-78 and by 43.5 per cent in 1978-79. Those increases compared with increases of 7.3 per cent and 23.1 per cent in the two years for total merchandise imports. Since the investment allowance was only one of many factors affecting these imports it is not possible to estimate with any degree of confidence the extent to which the increases reflected the timing of the investment allowance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Gift duty did no more than put a constraint on the transfer of capital assets in that, where a person's gifts to non-exempt donees within a stipulated period exceeded $ 10,000, duty was payable at progressive rates. The gift duty legislation did not deter transfers in the sense of stopping them or necessarily making them unattractive. 
Abolition of gift duty is not seen as relevant to tax evasion practices which are, of course, illegal. To the extent that abolition resulted in the lifting of a constraint on the transfer of capital assets, it has, to a degree, made tax avoidance that much less complicated and costly. As against that, the Government has moved firmly against tax avoidance, including avoidance through certain lands of trusts, and will be monitoring other developments in the area of trusts generally. 
At the time of the announcement of the abolition of gift duty in November 1 977, it was estimated that the annual direct loss to revenue would be $ 1 3m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I was not aware of this Conference or where it was held. 
I am aware that some organisations hold conferences overseas on occasions but I have seen no evidence that this is happening more now than in the past. 
Expenditure on attending a conference is deductible for income tax purposes only to the extent that it is incurred in gaining or producing assessable income, or in carrying on a business for that purpose, and is not of a capital, private or domestic nature. In other words such expenditure is treated like any other business expense. It is a long-standing principle of income tax law that business expenses are deductible in ascertaining taxable income. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has supplied the following table, which shows estimated unemployment rates obtained from labour force surveys. For 1976, figures for May on a basis comparable with that of current figures are not available in the detail required. Estimates for August have therefore been substituted. The estimates are subject to sampling variability. Information on sampling variability, definitions and timing of the surveys are published in  The Labour Force, Australia(6203.0). 
-The Government has taken a very close interest in the announcements made by  Mr Volcker,  the  Chairman  of the United States Federal Reserve Board, several weeks ago which I and the Government believe brought a firmer inflationary stance to American economic policy than had been evident for quite a long time. The honourable gentleman's statistic regarding movements in the value of the Australian dollar in the time since that announcement sounds correct but because I do not carry that sort of figure around in my head I would like to check it before - 
If the honourable member is patient, I will come to that. I would like to check before confirming it. There is no particular reason why that movement should have occurred. The honourable gentleman knows that since November 1976 the value of the Australian dollar has been fixed potentially on a daily basis according to movements in a trade weighted basket of currencies. The system for managing the Australian exchange rate, which has been in place since November 1976, has proved remarkably successful and has made one of the greatest contributions to restoring the international competitiveness of Australian industry. I would hope that in asking the question the honourable gentleman is not trying to denigrate the management of the exchange rate and the new regime that were established in November 1976. They have brought to the value of the Australian dollar international confidence and respect which is very apparent to any member or representative of this Government who travels overseas. The Australian dollar is an exceptionally sound currency. I hope that the question the honourable gentleman asks is not predicated on any criticism of the method that has been used to manage the exchange rate since November 1 976. It has made a first-class contribution to the competitiveness of Australian industry and our international respect. 
-I would like to add briefly to the answer I gave to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The effective change in the United States- Australian dollar rate between 5 October and 23 October was 1.5 per cent. In terms of the time period, the figure that the Leader of the Opposition used was correct. The important thing is that in that period the American dollar has strengthened against most major currencies and in that respect Australia has been no exception. There has been an effective revaluation of the American dollar against the Australian dollar and most other currencies during that time. 
-I will come to that. I should inform the honourable gentleman that the index has been adjusted twice, on 9 October and 16 October, since the United States measures came into force. In both cases the adjustments had the effect of reducing the extent to which the devaluation against the American dollar was effective. In those circumstances the adjustments would have had the effect of reducing any loss which may have occurred on the forward book of the Reserve Bank. I make no comment about the quantum. 
I have completed my answer to the question. 
The Government welcomes this Dorothy Dixer of a matter of public importance. On the very day that the consumer price index for the September quarter is published, the Opposition brings forward a matter of public importance which allows us to compare the fundamental approaches of the Government and the Opposition to economic policy in Australia at present. What the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said in the 15 minutes for which he spoke stands or falls on one proposition alonethe validity of the attack that he mounted on the energy policy of this Government. He has not raised a debate about inflation. He really was not talking about inflation. He was talking about whether it is real life for any Australian government, be it Liberal or Labor, to pursue an energy policy other than one based upon the principle of accepting that when there is a dwindling energy resource we will encourage more rapid consumption of that resource if we subsidise its consumption. That is precisely what the honourable member for Gellibrand and the Labor Party would have us do. 
The honourable member said that one way or another Australia alone can stand out against the world trend towards market pricing of petroleum products. He said that we can ignore what the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries can do. He said that because we are 70 per cent self-sufficient we can continue to pursue a policy of subsidising the consumption of petroleum in Australia. There is probably no area in which the Labor Party is more muddled and contradictory than the area of energy policy. Somehow or other the Labor Party believes that it can do what no other country can do. It believes that it can thumb its nose at the fact that crude oil is a diminishing energy resource and that it can ignore the fact that unless we encourage through market pricing the exploration for dwindling energy resources, people will not spend large amounts of risk capital on looking for them. What the Labor Party is really saying about energy and what the honourable member for Gellibrand said in his remarks today are three completely and fundamentally contradictory things. The honourable member said, first of all, that a Labor government would reduce the price of petrol. The honourable member, his leader and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  have said time and again that they will reduce the price of petrol in Australia. That is their policy and that is what they are representing to the Australian people at the present time that they will do. That is point number one. The Labor Party will reduce the price of petrol. 
I do not need to put them in the honourable member's mouth. They have been put there by Houdini Hayden who believes that somehow or other the Labor Party can do this. The second thing the honourable member said is that the Labor Party could raise more revenue than we are raising from crude oil. That is what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said in response to my Budget. You are nodding your head. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is an annual measure to formally impose tax for 1979-80 at the rates declared in the Income Tax (Rates) Act 1976, as proposed to be amended by the Bill I have just introduced. Details of the provisions of the Bill, which follow those of previous years, will be contained in an explanatory memorandum which is to be made available to honourable members as soon as it is printed. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
My attention has been drawn to the bid or, more precisely, the activities of CSR to acquire a larger shareholding in Thiess Holdings. My own very strong view is that by and large governments, Federal or State, ought to stay out of share market transactions of this nature. I hold very strongly to the view that it is a great pity that people appear to take fright as soon as there is a bit of activity between some very large companies. Both of those companies have been extraordinarily successful. I am very conscious of the contribution that Thiess Holdings has made to the State of Queensland and the legitimate interest of the people of Queensland and the Government of Queensland in the employees of that company and its future fortunes. But equally one ought not to underestimate the contribution that has been made to the State of Queensland and to Australia by the CSR company. I will consider the honourable gentleman's suggestion, but in all honesty I have to say to him that I have a marked prejudice against any activity on the part of this Federal Government that would appear to intervene overly in normal commercial transactions that ought to be observed by governments and not be the subject of intervention by governments. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs, like, I am sure, a very large number of members of this House, displays an interest in the insurance industry of Australia. I can say to the honourable gentleman that the favourable conditions which have existed in recent years, following a period of adverse conditions up to 1976 and 1977 which imposed certain strains on the industry, particularly in the light of the number of natural disasters that occurred during that period, have contributed to a very considerable strengthening of the reserve position of Australian insurance companies. In this respect I refer the honourable gentleman to pages 31 to 34 of the report of the Insurance Commissioner which was tabled recently in this Parliament and which would give to the honourable gentleman some further background to the stability of the industry and the capacity of the industry to respond in the event of the occurrence of further natural disasters. The reserves of Australian insurance companies, which, of course, are subject to the provisions of the Insurance Act and the administration and surveillance of the Insurance Commissioner, are sound and stable. I believe that there is every reason for confidence in the stability of the industry and the strength of individual companies and their capacity to respond in the event of the occurrence of the types of disasters that have been experienced in the past. 
-The Leader of the Opposition asked a series of hypothetical questions and in the process of asking those questions he ignored a couple of central economic realities of the present time. The first of those economic realities of the present time is that the overall impact of the recent Federal Budget has been extremely beneficial so far as all aspects of the Australian economy are concerned. In no area has the impact of the Federal Budget been more beneficial than in the area of the perceptions of investors, both in Australia and abroad, as to the future strength and vitality of the Australian economy. I again remind the Leader of the Opposition, because he appears to be absolutely incapable of grasping this very simple fact, that the greatest test of all of people's confidence in the economic future of a country is their willingness to invest in its future. There is no better illustration of the long term value of this Government's policies and the long term preservation of the living standards of Australian people than the willingness of Australian people and people from abroad to invest in our country's future. The Leader of the Opposition is concerned about living standards. If he is concerned about the living standards of average Australians and average Australian families, he ought to manifest a greater concern about the greatest threat to the living standards of Australian families, that is, the possibility of higher rates of inflation. If the contribution of the Leader of the Opposition to curbing inflation in Australia is to be found in the Adelaide conference of the Australian Labor Party, where hardly a syllable was uttered about fighting inflation, he will go down in history as the first leader of a major political party in Australia to give up in the fight against inflation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The major purpose of this and associated Bills I shall shortly introduce is to give effect to taxation proposals announced in my Budget speech. This Bill will also give effect to proposals announced in my statements of 12 June and 25 June 1979. The first of these related to tax avoidance schemes designed to exploit the general depreciation provisions of the tax law. The second related to depreciation allowable when plant is owned and used for only a part of an income year. 
Before proceeding to the matters dealt with in the Bill I mention that it has not been possible to include in it provisions to give effect to some major initiatives announced in my Budget Speech. These are the proposed income tax concessions for conversion of oil-fired industrial equipment to other energy sources, the extension of the offshore petroleum rebate to onshore petroleum exploration and development, the provision of a system of depreciation allowances for buildings used in traveller accommodation and two proposals relating to motor vehicles. As honourable members are aware, the latter involve restrictions on depreciation allowances for luxury vehicles and adjustments- corresponding to those made in respect of depreciation allowances- where a taxpayer buys and sells a vehicle that had been held under a lease. These proposals are all matters of substance and considerable complexity, which require the most careful attention. In some cases they break entirely new ground. It has just not been possible to finalise them in time to be included in a Bill during these sittings. However, comprehensive statements on the proposals will be made within the next few weeks and the legislation will be available for introduction early in the 1980 Autumn sittings. 
Facilities for the Storage of Grain, Hay or Fodder 
One of the Budget proposals dealt with in the Bill is the special accelerated rate of depreciation for on-farm structural improvements used for storing grain, hay or fodder in the course of carrying on a primary production business. The cost of such a facility will be able to be written off as depreciation in equal instalments over five years beginning with the year in which it is first used or installed ready for use. 
Debate interrupted. 
-This accelerated allowance will apply to storage facilities ordered, or commenced to be constructed, by the taxpayer after 21 August 1979. As I mentioned in my Budget speech, the 20 per cent rate of investment allowance will continue to be available in respect of the facilities. 
Retention Allowance for Private Companies 
Another budget proposal implemented in the Bill is an increase from 60 per cent to 70 per cent in the retention allowance for business income of private companies. By so easing the dividend distribution requirements of private companies, the Government recognises that a frequent concern of small business is the maintenance of adequate working capital. The increased rate of retention allowance will first apply in respect of the 1 978- 79 income year. 
Rebates 
As tax indexation is not to apply for 1979-80, the Bill proposes that the value of dependant rebates will be the same as for 1978-79. To reflect the change in the standard rate of tax, the Bill also provides that the rebate for general concessional expenditure in excess of $1,590 will be calculated at 33.07 per cent. There is also provision that the rebate provided to ensure that certain lump sum payments on account of annual or long service leave bear no more than the standard rate is to be calculated by reference to a standard rate of 33.07 per cent. 
Provisional Tax 
Provisional tax is, of course, the part of the pay-as-you-earn system designed to collect tax on income other than salary or wages within the year in which it is earned. Provisional tax arrangements seek to achieve reasonable consistency between the treatment of salary and wage earners and the self-employed. As income for 1979- 80 will generally be higher than the 1978-79 taxable income on which provisional tax is based, somewhat higher rates than those applicable for 1978-79 are to apply for provisional taxpayers who do not self-assess. In essence, the Bill provides that provisional tax for 1979-80 will be an amount equal to tax payable for 1978-79 plus a loading of 2.57 percentage points applied to the part of 1978-79 taxable income in excess of $3,893. Provisional tax will also be increased to take account of the withdrawal of the trading stock valuation adjustment as from the beginning of the 1979-80 income year. 
Other Measures 
In addition to the Budget proposals I have mentioned, the Bill gives effect to four decisions of the Government that I announced in recent months. 
Pro Rata Depreciation 
On 25 June this year I foreshadowed amendments to make it clear that a pro rata deduction for depreciation is to be allowed where plant is owned and used for business purposes for part only of an income year. This decision was taken following a decision by a taxation board of review which allowed a full year's depreciation in a case in which plant was owned and used for only one day of the income year. That decision overturned a long-standing practice, widely accepted by accounting and legal practitioners as appropriate, of determining depreciation allowances by reference to the period during which the plant is owned and used. The amendment is to apply to plant acquired after 25 June 1979, except where it is acquired under a contract entered into on or before that date, and also to plant which the taxpayer commenced to construct after that date. 
Depreciation Schemes to Avoid Tax 
In my statement of 12 June 1979, I foreshadowed amendments to counteract schemes that exploit the depreciation provisions of the income tax law to create deductions for artificial losses. These amendments are contained in this Bill. The mechanics of one such scheme are for a promoter to lend a taxpayer an amount that enables the taxpayer to buy plant from the promoter at an excessive price. The taxpayer then uses the plant to produce assessable income, generally by hiring it back to the promoter for a short period. Because depreciation is allowable on the cost of plant, the scheme is designed to give the taxpayer an entitlement to depreciation based on the inflated cost price. A depreciation deduction based on that price is accelerated by the taxpayer then selling the plant at its true value, thereby producing a deduction in the form of a balancing adjustment of the difference between the inflated cost price and sale price at true value. By paying the promoter an amount representing the nominal present value of the loan, the taxpayer discharges that liability. In this way, for a small outlay, a very large income tax deduction may be manufactured. The amendments proposed in this Bill will ensure that in situations where no existing provision applies to limit the cost of an item of plant for depreciation purposes, its cost for those purposes will be restricted to the true value of the plant. 
A second type of depreciation scheme exploits a feature of a special provision that deems a disposal of plant to occur when it is transferred on the formation or dissolution of a partnership or on a change in the interests in a partnership. In these circumstances the law permits the parties to specify a disposal value in the agreement giving rise to the change and, where this is done, that value must be accepted by the Commissioner of Taxation. Relying upon this provision, a partnership may purchase plant for a significant amount, most of which is provided by way of loan from the scheme promoter. As is the case with the first scheme, the plant is hired out by the partnership- often back to the vendors for a short period to ensure that the plant technically qualifies for depreciation allowances. The partnership is then reconstituted to admit as a new partner a company controlled by the promoter. The takeover agreement specifies a nominal amount as the value of the plant and this gives rise to a large depreciation deduction- by way of a balancing adjustment- to be shared by the original partners. The new partnership then enters into a series of transactions which results in the plant being sold back to the original owner for the original price and the proceeds of that sale are used to repay the loan to the promoter. Once again, for a very small outlay by the benefiting parties, a very large income tax deduction may be manufactured. As a counter to this type of scheme the Bill proposes amendments to the provision that enables partners to specify a transfer value of plant in the takeover agreement. The amendments will ensure that, should the parties specify a value that is less than both the true value and the depreciated value of the plant, the lower of these two values is to be adopted in calculating the balancing adjustments applicable to the transferors. 
The law is also to be amended to deal with a variation of the second type of depreciation scheme. In this varied arrangement, the original partnership would not be reconstituted but would simply sell the plant to the promoter's company for an amount that is well below the purchase price to the partnersip. In that event the partnership could found a claim for a manufactured balancing adjustment based on the actual sale price. As a counter to this posible variation the Bill provides that, if depreciable plant is sold in a situation in which the parties are not dealing at arm's length at a price that is lower than both its true value and its depreciated value, the vendors will be treated as having sold the plant at the lower of the two values. 
As mentioned in my statement of 12 June 1979, the transfer provisions that have enabled partners to manufacture depreciation deductions also appear in the special rnining provisions of the income tax law. Accordingly the Bill contains amendments to these provisions along the same lines as I have outlined in respect of the general depreciation provisions. The amendments are to apply to property acquired or disposed of, or in respect of which an interest is transferred, after 12 June 1979 other than acquisitions, disposals or transfers under contracts or agreements entered into on or before that date. 
I also announced on 12 June that losses generated by these depreciation schemes will not be permitted to be carried forward for deduction into a future income year. This is, of course, in accord with the policy of the Government announced on 24 May 1979 that paper losses produced by tax avoidance schemes are not to be allowed to be carried forward as income tax deductions. The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5) 1979 contains provisions that ban the carry-forward of deductions for artificial losses arising from so-called 'Curran' schemes, trading stock schemes, pre-payment schemes and expenditure recoupment schemes. Amendments in this Bill will apply the policy to paper losses generated by depreciation schemes. Paper losses created by these depreciation schemes in 1977-78 or earlier years will not be allowed as carry forward deductions in 1978-79 or any subsequent income year, while such losses manufactured in the 1978-79 income year will not be deductible against income of 1979-80 or subsequent years. 
Penalties for false rebate claims 
The Bill also contains provisions to give effect to my announcement of 20 July 1 979 that the income tax law was to be amended to expose taxpayers who make false claims for rebates to the same additional tax to which taxpayers who omit assessable income or make false claims for expenditure incurred are exposed. The rebates in question are those which are not related to specific amounts of expenditure. Under the present law a taxpayer who makes a false claim for a rebate for a spouse or other dependant may be subjected only to prosecution action. Action taken in a number of these cases has resulted in the imposition by the courts of fines and penalties which vary significantly but which are very substantial in some cases. By way of contrast a taxpayer who seeks to evade tax by omitting income, or by claiming a deduction in excess of expenditure incurred, may either be prosecuted or be liable to additional tax imposed by the statute but capable of remission in whole or in part by the Commissioner. The amendments now proposed will extend the additional tax alternative to false claims for rebates in cases where the claims are made after 20 July 1979. The rebates that will be affected by this amendment are those for a spouse, a daughter-housekeeper, a housekeeper, parent or parent-in-law, an invalid relative, as a sole parent, the zone rebate and the rebate for overseas service of members of the Defence Force or for service with a United Nations armed force. 
Gifts 
The Bill proposes amendments to the gift provisions of the income tax law to provide deductions for gifts to funds established by Roman Catholic Archdioceses or dioceses exclusively to provide religious instruction in government schools in Australia. I mention that the gift provisions already apply to gifts to the Council for Christian Education in Schools representing the Protestant churches and the Council for Jewish Education in Schools. This new concession will apply in respect of gifts made on or after 1 July 1979. 
The Government will be seeking passage of this and the associated Bills in the present sittings. I acknowledge that that will be a departure from the recent practice of allowing taxation legislation in respect of tax avoidance schemes to remain before the House for a considerable time to allow interested parties to study the provisions and offer comments on them. This is not practicable on this occasion mainly because of the need to enact legislation dealing with income tax payable for the current year. However, so far as the anti-avoidance provisions of the Bill are concerned, I undertake that any representations made in respect of them will be most carefully examined and any deficiency revealed by the representations will be remedied. 
The Bill also proposes some minor technical amendments, including one to the Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Act 1978. This is designed to make it clear that, if a State were to impose an income tax in accordance with that Act, the Commonwealth would have authority to make the necessary PA YE deductions from the wages or salaries of its own employees. Details of the various measures in the BUI are contained in the explanatory memorandum that will be circulated shortly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Willis) adjourned. 
If you would sit down we would have a bit of time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarsOrder!  The honourable member for Reid will resume his seat. 
Could I speak to that,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Income Tax (Rates) Act 1976 which declares the rates of tax payable by individuals and trustees. The main feature of the Bill is the removal of the income tax surcharge imposed as a temporary measure for the 1978-79 financial year. For pay as you earn tax instalment deduction purposes, the standard rate of personal income tax will accordingly be reduced from 1 December 1979 from the present effective 34.57 per cent to 32 per cent. As I have stressed on several occasions, this tax reduction will mean considerable increases in take-home-pay for salary and wage earners from that date. For the 1979-80 year as a whole, the Bill provides that the standard rate for assessment purposes will be 33.07 per cent, which is derived as a weighted average from the present effective PA YE scale and the PA YE scale to apply from 1 December 1979. Subject to surcharges above certain levels, the standard rate applies to taxable income exceeding $3,893. With the usual surcharges of 14 per cent and 28 per cent, the rates applying to income in the two ranges above $16,608 and $33,216 are 47.07 per cent and 61.07 per cent. As it was not possible to restore tax indexation for 1979-80 because of budgetary considerations, the income ranges I have just mentioned are the same as for 1 978-79. 
The Bill provides that, in future, indexation can be implemented by an Act declaring that indexation is to apply for the particular year. Details of the changes proposed by the Bill are to be contained in an explanatory memorandum that is being prepared and which I will have circulated as soon as possible. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will impose income tax for 1979-80 on the 1978-79 incomes of companies, and the 1979-80 incomes of superannuation funds, at the rates declared by the Bill. The rates are the same as for 1978-79, with one exception. The exception is for superannuation funds which are taxed in accordance with section 121da of the Income Tax Assessment Act. These funds, which are broadly in the nature of accumulation trusts, are taxed at a rate equal to the maximum rate of personal tax. In consequence of the change in the standard rate, the rate of tax for these funds is to be reduced from16 per cent to 61.07 per cent for the 1979-80 financial year. The provisions of the Bill follow the same lines as in earlier years and details will be explained in a memorandum that I will have circulated shortly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) See my answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4373 in today's  Hansard. 
-I thank the Leader of the Opposition for that question. Firstly, I remind him that about five months ago the Government announced that it was abandoning the practice of holding periodic cash loans and was replacing this system with a system of issuing tap Commonwealth stocks and tender issues of Treasury notes. So the question of the Leader of the Opposition about a November cash loan is redundant. He may rest assured that the Government has been following very carefully the effect on the Australian economy of the increase in interest rates in the United States of America. It is true, as the Leader of the Opposition said, that there was a private capital outflow in September. It is equally true, on the figures available to me in respect of October, that the indication is that whilst there has been an outflow on private account it is significantly lower than the outflow that occurred in September. I also inform the Leader of the Opposition that whilst the LGS ratio is around about the figure he mentioned, the volume of lending by Australian banks during September was extremely high. For the Leader of the Opposition to talk about sharp contractions of credit or anything analogous to that is not only to misread totally the present situation, but also possibly to arouse in the minds of some people unnecessary concerns about the management of monetary and fiscal policy in Australia at present. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
An increase of 400 in staff ceiling has been approved for the Australian Taxation Office in 1979-80. 
A comprehensive review of operational procedures in the Office of the Insurance Commissioner was undertaken over the period March 1977 to March 1978. As a result, operational procedures within the Office were improved. 
A joint Public Service Board/Department of Treasury Staff Utilisation Review was then undertaken over the period March to June 1978. This resulted in an overall reduction of 1 in the establishment of the Office; from 60 to 59 (excluding the Insurance Commissioner who is a Statutory Officer). The establishment of the Company Examinations and Investigations area was increased by 2 and a number of positions were classified at a higher level to enable more experienced staff to be recruited. The establishment of the Planning and Special Projects area was also increased by 2. Reductions in establishment were effected in other areas. 
A follow-up review to assess the effects of the implementation of the Staff Utilisation Review is currently underway. 
The current staff ceiling for the Office is 55. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has advised that, due to the continued lack of uniformity in road traffic accident reporting in the various States and Territories, the ABS ceased compiling and publishing detailed road traffic accident statistics at the national level from July 1978. Currently the ABS only compiles and publishes broad aggregated data at the national level for numbers of accidents, including fatal accidents, and numbers of persons killed and injured in road traffic accidents. 
Progress has recently been made in improving the future uniformity of some aspects of reporting of road traffic accident data and by January 1980 it is expected that all States and Territories will be consistently reporting accidents where at least one person is admitted to hospital As a result, the definition of a casualty accident for national statistics purposes has been changed to include only those accidents in which at least one person was admitted to hospital, instead of the previous definition which included all accidents resulting in bodily injury to any person which required surgical or medical treatment. 
The ABS will recommence the compilation of a limited range of detailed road traffic accident statistics at the national level from January 1980. A decision to publish this data will depend upon an analysis of the uniformity of the data received during the first few quarters of 1980. 
The Australian Statistician has advised that the ABS will continue to monitor progress on the uniformity of other aspects of road traffic accident reporting and will consider the resumption of publication of further detailed statistics as soon as substantial uniformity of reporting of the relevant data items has been achieved. 
Self-service Petrol Stations (Question No.  4886) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The instability in world currency markets in recent dmes and the associated policy responses have been among the factors affecting the level of world trade and thus, to a limited extent, the level of economic activity and employment within Australia. However, that currency instability is merely a symptom of much more fundamental economic problems throughout the world, including in particular the effects of rates of inflation that are disturbingly high and which have generally increased sharply in 1 979. 
Yes. 
The precise nature of the talks is confidential to the nations involved. 
The Australian Government is firmly convinced that there will only be a sustainable improvement in world economic conditions, and a return to stability in world currency markets, if individual governments pursue policies which reduce inflation and which encourage structural adjustment (including appropriate energy policies). Since coming to office the present Government has steadfastly maintained domestic economic policies that are designed to achieve these ends. Australian Government representatives have argued at appropriate international meetings in support of the need for more widespread adoption of the type of economic policies required to deal with these problems. In this respect it is heartening to note the general agreement which was reached at the 1 October meeting of the Interim Committee of the IMF, which I attended, on the top priority that needs to be accorded to reducing inflation. The Communique of the Interim Committee stated, inter aiia: 
The Committee observed with great concern that inflation throughout the industrial world had intensified. In view of this grave threat to economic and financial stability, the Committee emphasized that the main task of economic policy was to contain inflationary pressures and to reduce inflationary expectations. One of the immediate problems was to prevent the recent surge of price increases for oil and other primary products from adding to the strength of inflationary expectations and thus being built into underlying rates of increase in wages and prices. Accordingly, the Committee noted with satisfaction that reduction of inflation was being given priority in the economic policies of industrial countries, and it reiterated its view that in many countries progress in reducing inflation was an essential precondition for the resumption of vigorous economic growth '. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his election policy speech of 21 November 1977 the Prime Minister stated that "We will co-operate with the States and financial institutions to set up an insurance scheme, protecting savings deposited with building societies". 
I am not personally aware of any public statement made by the Minister for Finance on this matter in April 1979. 1 would, however, draw the attention of the honourable member to an answer given by the Minister, when Acting Treasurer, to a question without notice on 7 March 1 979 (see House of Representatives  Hansard,  page 684). 
and (4) The Government has received a report from a working party of officers on this subject and has given some preliminary consideration to it. I have met members of the Advisory Committee for Permanent Building Societies established under the Financial Corporations Act on several occasions to discuss possible deposits insurance arrangements and I have been in correspondence with them. I have also been in contact with the  Chairman  of the Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System on the handling of the matter. The issues are complex and the Government's final decision on deposits insurance arrangements will be made after careful consideration of all the issues, including ' the views of the States and major finance groups. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The available relevant statistics which relate to net tax assessed and deductions allowed for investment allowance in respect of taxpayers coded to various industry groups that were included in the main income tax tabulations for the 1976-77 income year are set out below. Details of deductions for investment allowance included in returns of partnerships and trusts, which affected individual taxpayers mainly, are also provided. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The available relevant statistics which relate to net tax assessed and deductions allowed for trading stock valuation adjustment in respect of taxpayers coded to various industry groups as recorded in the mam income tax tabulations for the 1976-77 income year are set out below. The details of trading stock valuation adjustment allowed in returns of partnership and trusts, which affected individual taxpayers mainly, are also provided. 
I thank the Opposition for the general support it has given to this Bill. I also thank my colleague, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  who is secretary of the Government members taxation sub-committee, for his contribution. I take this opportunity of thanking that sub-committee for the continued, practical, intelligent and pragmatic support it has given to me in considering the complexities of tax legislation throughout this year. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  raised one specific matter to which I will reply concerning the extent to which the undertaking to exempt solar appliances has been given effect. I believe that it has been effected and I will try to explain why. The original announcement was to exempt from sales tax all solar appliances. This does not mean and was not meant to mean that everything that benefits, for example, from solar heating, would get the benefit of the exemption. 
The honourable member for Adelaide mentioned air conditioners. The ones that he mentioned are air conditioning systems which use solar energy to pre-heat water which is in turn boosted by electricity, oil or gas heating to the desired temperature for piping to separate appliances such as a heat exchanger for winter, air conditioning or a chiller unit for summer cooling. The chiller unit contains a chemical which uses heat to provide a  refrigerative  effect similar to gas-powered refrigerators. Several separate appliances are linked as a system in the examples that I have given. 
Air conditioning systems are not as such exempt and it was never undertaken that a collection of appliances would be exempt merely because one of the appliances is a solar appliance. The intention always was that the solar appliance itself would get the benefit of the exemption. The Government once again thanks the Opposition for the support and the speedy passage that it affords this legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-by leave- During the debate on the censure motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in one respect I might have inadvertently misled the House when I was speaking of the circumstances under which the Hall inquiry was established by the Government a few months ago, and in particular the role played in the establishment of that inquiry by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  In my speech I indicated that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs had not only recommended an inquiry but in fact also had recommended the form that the inquiry should take. On checking further I have established that this is not the case. The Minister recommended that there should be an investigation. The form the investigation should take was agreed to by Cabinet and the specific form was not adopted on the recommendation of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. But it is thoroughly correct to say that the Minister agreed fully with the decision of Cabinet that there be such an investigation and he enjoined his Department to cooperate fully in that investigation. He himself cooperated with it in every way. I just wanted to correct what may have been an inadvertent emphasis. 
I move: 
1 ) Page 2, omit clause 2, substitute the following clause: "(2). (1) Subject to this section, this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. "(2) Paragraph 3 (f) and section 4 shall be deemed to have come into operation on 28 June 1979. "(3) Paragraphs (3) (aaa), (a), (aa), (ab), (b), (c), (dg) and (e) shall be deemed to have come into operation on 22 Aug--t 1979.". 
Progress reported. 
I seek leave to move my amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (4) Details of deductions claimed for share trading losses in 1975-76 income year returns that were allowed in full or in part are not available. 
However, some information was recorded on claims made for deductions for tax avoidance losses in 1975-76 - including those claimed to be based on the Curran decision- in association with an examination of 1977-78 income year returns 
This survey identified 114 taxpayers, including some companies, who made claims for the deduction of losses of $9.4m- including amounts sought to be carried forward- on the basis of the Curran decision. In all of these cases identified by the survey the claims have been disallowed with a resultant increase in tax assessed on 1975-76 income of $3.8m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (5) Details of claims made in 1976-77 income year returns by individual taxpayers for deductions in respect of tax avoidance schemes are not available. However, some information was recorded on 1976-77 claims made by taxpayers, including companies, in association with an examination of 1977-78 income year returns. The available, but incomplete, information on these 1976-77 income year returns identified as including claims based on tax avoidance schemes is shown below. Comparable figures are not available in respect of schemes involving leasing of livestock. No schemes involving section 67 or section 67a were identified by the survey. 
My attention has, of course, been drawn to the decision of the United Kingdom Government, announced about two weeks ago, to abolish all exchange controls operating in respect of the outflow or inflow of funds out of or into the United Kingdom. I regard that decision by the British Government as a very bold and courageous break with regulation. I think it highlights the need for any government periodically to ask itself whether regulations introduced decades ago are any longer serving the purpose for which they were originally introduced. I say to the honourable gentleman and to the House that that is one of the driving forces behind the Government's decision to establish an inquiry into the Australian financial system. We have not looked in earnest at our system for the past 40 years. The time has long since come for that to occur. 
Specifically the honourable gentleman wants to know whether that decision will be of any help to Australia. Australia has always been, as he would know, a favoured place for British investment. I would think that there is a strong possibility that the decision will result in an increase in portfolio investment in Australia by the United Kingdom. Just how much investment will result I find impossible to quantify in any way. I believe that the consequences of the decision will be beneficial not only in relation to the United Kingdom economy but also, more particularly, in relation to the level of British investment in Australia. 
In regard to the chop war, which I gather is a reference to the apparent breach of the covenants of the European Economic Community by France in relation to exports of United Kingdom lamb, and which relates in some way to the unwillingness of the French Government to acknowledge the arrangements the Community has made regarding New Zealand lamb, ministerially I had better stay out of that war. I will refer the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague, the Minister for Special Trade Representations, who knows some of the ins and outs of chop wars in Europe. 
Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the censure motion that has been moved by the Opposition today is that the Opposition is inviting this House to censure a man whose very actions promoted the inquiry which exposed the deficiencies in a section of his administration. Quite apart from any highfalutin explanations of ministerial responsibility, it would seem to me to be an outrageous breach of common justice if this House were to censure a man who on three separate occasions initiated inquiries and investigations which led to the decision announced yesterday by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  to begin the disbandment of the Federal Narcotics Bureau and its transfer in the first instance to the Commonwealth Police. I think it would be a very odd breach of ordinary, common justice for that to occur. That is precisely what the Opposition is inviting this House to do. 
-The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  put the case very well for the Opposition. I am going to nail the Opposition with the words of the honourable member for Bonython. He said that what he was really concerned about was the relationship between the Minister and the general administration of his Department. I put it to the House that what my colleague did within a short time of becoming Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in July 1977, what he did earlier this year in response to allegations about the Federal Narcotics Bureau, what he joined the Government in doing in inviting the bringing forward of the interim report which has triggered this whole debate and the decision of the Government to transfer the Narcotics Bureau to the Federal Police, were the actions of an honourable and responsible Minister. What he did was the action of a person acting immediately upon allegations having been brought to his attention. He acted not with delay or with inertia as has been alleged by the Opposition in this debate, but with decisiveness and, I believe, with considerable courage. 
This issue is of justifiable concern to every decent Australian. I accept and say immediately that many members of the Opposition are just as concerned about the drug problem as are the people on our side of the House. However, I am a little concerned about some of the odd approaches of some Opposition members to the legalisation of marihuana, but I leave that aside. I accept that there is a potential for a bipartisan approach to this problem. But I think it is a very odd sort of bipartisan approach when the day after a comprehensive report is tabled in the New South Wales Parliament and the day after the interim report of the Federal Royal Commission is tabled in this Parliament, all the Opposition does is to try to score a political victory in this debate by trying to impugn the responsibility, credit and honesty of my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife). 
In essence, the Opposition has made three charges against my colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Let us go through those charges. First of all, it has charged him with inertia. How can a person be successfully charged with inertia when within two months of being appointed a Minister a Royal 
Commission is established with the widest possible terms of reference? Secondly, how can a person be charged with inertia following his actions earlier this year when doubts were raised about the integrity of people within the Narcotics Bureau and allegations were made of criminal conduct of the worst possible kind? What did this Minister do? Did he go to his colleagues and say: Look, we have to cover this up. We cannot have an investigation. We do not want this to get out'? He recommended to his colleagues that there should not be an inquiry by the Narcotics Bureau into itself, that there should not be an inquiry by the Federal Police into the Narcotics Bureau, but that there should be a joint inquiry involving the State police. Anybody in this House who understands the relationship between law enforcement agencies in this country in relation to narcotics or at any other level will know that there is a certain degree of jealousy between the law enforcement agencies. One of the last things that a Minister does to make himself popular with his own law enforcement agency is to invite other law enforcement agencies to undertake an investigation of it. There is nothing more calculated, to put it bluntly, to raise the hackles of a law enforcement agency than to have it investigated by somebody else. 
Is this the action of a man who is having the wool pulled over his eyes by a section of his administration? Is this the action of a man who is asking his colleagues to bury the matter or to push it under the carpet? In other words, is this the action of a weak, irresponsible Minister? I put it to the House that clearly it is not. Furthermore, the Minister joined with the rest of the Government in inviting the Williams Royal Commission to bring forward an interim report. What happened specifically in respect of that invitation? Was there any doubt left in the mind of the Royal Commissioner as to what was wanted? Was any suggestion made that the Royal Commissioner should bring forward a whitewash of the Narcotics Bureau? No, there was not. Rather, as reported by the  Deputy  Prime Minister yesterday, the Williams Royal Commission stated: 
In July 1979 following allegations of leakages of information from an unknown officer of the Sydney office of the Narcotics Bureau, the Government decided it was appropriate to consider general matters relating to the Narcotics Bureau, including organisation, recruitment, starling and control, lines of responsibility to the Permanent Head and the Minister, and relationship with other arms of government. Accordingly, on 7 August, with the approval of  His Excellency  the Governor-General, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sought from the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs an interim report on those issues. 
Is that the request or the injunction of a government that is trying to cover something up? Is that the request of a Minister who is running for cover and who is scared that there will be embarrassing revelations about the conduct of his Department? I put it to the House that that is the action of a responsible Minister in the best Westminster tradition. For the Opposition to suggest otherwise is to completely misunderstand the situation. I put it to the House that on the charge of inertia the Opposition has demonstrably failed to establish this censure motion. 
Secondly, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Bonython have tried to suggest that the Minister has showed a lack of responsibility in the discharge of his obligations. I put it to the House again that the Minister's track record in terms of taking action when matters have been brought to his attention, and his record in bringing forward to the Government and ultimately to this Parliament some recommendations to upgrade the performance and capabilities of the Narcotics Bureau early in 1978, is also evidence of a Minister discharging his duties with a high degree of responsibility. Unfortunately, the Leader of the Opposition, who cannot seem to restrain himself on these bipartisan occasions, could not resist impugning the ordinary honesty of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I do not believe anybody who sat through Question Time earlier today and watched the stoney, unimpressed silence of the Opposition as its Leader and other people asked pre-arranged questions could have failed to have been impressed by the ordinary honesty and candour of my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. On the score of honesty and candour, I also believe that the charge against my colleague has failed miserably. 
A couple of specific charges were made against this side of the House during debate to which I would now like to turn. The first thing that was made great play of was the question of what we did in 1975, the obstructionist tactics that were adopted by the then Opposition. I inform the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  that the Bill bringing about the changes of which he spoke was introduced into this House by the then Attorney-General on 30 October 1975; in other words, 14 days after the then Opposition had announced its intention to defer the passing of the Appropriation Bills in the Senate. In those circumstances can there be any charge sustained that the obstruction of the then Opposition held up that legislation? The Bill was introduced and, on the motion of the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  debate was adjourned, and that was the end of the matter. 
-The honourable member for Adelaide should sit in his seat. Also, an allegation was made about deceit by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The honourable member for Bonython tries to interject.  His  colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide, was talking in earnest and grave tones about hushed conversations at meetings of the Cabinet Legislation Committee earlier this year, allegedly when we were snowed into letting the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill go through in hasty fashion. Is the honourable member for Adelaide seriously suggesting that every time an allegation of criminal conduct is made against a section of the bureaucracy any Bill at all conferring additional power on or giving additional discretions to that section of the bureauracy ought to be immediately pulled out of the Parliament? That is the effect of the charge that he made. He is nodding his head; he is suggesting that every time somebody makes an allegation, everything should be suspended immediately. That is the effect of what is being alleged by the honourable member for Adelaide so far as the telecommunications legislation is concerned. Of course, that is an absurdity. The Government was required then to establish immediately an impartial and proper inquiry into those investigations. That has been established. It is the Hall inquiry and it was established in a most impartial and objective manner. For the honourable member for Adelaide or anybody else on the Opposition side to suggest otherwise is complete nonsense. 
I would hope that all members on both sides of the House would agree that successful prosecution of the fight against the drug problem in Australia is a matter of the first priority. I believe that during the time this Government has been in office, and in particular while my colleague has been responsible for the area, it has committed itself with great dedication and energy to that task. Of course, the Government appreciates those elements of bipartisan support that have been extended by the Opposition in respect of this. What the Government does not appreciate from the Opposition is this cheap, politically motivated attempt to discredit my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. He has acted with candour; he has acted promptly, honestly and responsibly. The Government has ""acted responsibly and speedily. Upon receipt of the report of the Royal Commission, seven weeks ago, after studying it and announcing its conclusions last night, the  Deputy  Prime Minister indicated the changed administrative arrangements that would come into operation. 
I believe that this motion is ill-founded. It invites the House to come to the incredibly unfair conclusion that a man who invites an investigation into his administration must then be condemned and censured out of hand because of the findings of a royal commission into that administration. I believe that that is a manifestly unfair proposition. It is a proposition that has not been established by the Opposition and I invite the House to reject the motion. I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="116131197911072_27_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197911072_27_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put: 
That the motion  (Mr  Hayden's) be agreed to. 
The physically handicapped will benefit from two further exemptions proposed in amendment (3). These will apply to battery chargers for use exclusively or principally in recharging the batteries of electric wheel chairs and invalid chairs and to motor vehicle hand controls and similar devices which enable disabled persons to drive motor vehicles. Other measures proposed in the amendments circulated will benefit craftsmen and other small manufacturers. 
There are at present two exemptions based on annual turnover levels. One exempts goods made in the manufacturer's own home if the average annual turnover from his or her sales of all goods does not exceed $1,000. The other exempts sales by retail of products made otherwise than in the home by a person whose average annual turnover from sales of all goods does not exceed $ 1,400. These turnover levels have remained unchanged since 1941 and the Government has decided that they should be raised to a level more commensurate with present day prices. It is accordingly proposed by paragraphs (d), (da), (db) and (dc) of amendment (4) that these exemptions be replaced by a single exemption for goods produced by a person whose average annual turnover from sales of all goods does not exceed $12,000. The distinction between home and other small manufacturers will be abolished. 
The definition in the present provision of 'average annual value of sales of all goods' which lays down the rules to be followed for the purpose of determining the average annual turnover will remain but it is proposed in paragraph (dd) of amendment (4) that a further definitional provision be included in the item. This provision will enable the annual turnover to be determined by reference to arms length prices where sales are made at depressed prices between parties not at arms length. 
Another provision, exemption item 103, which applies to those who are manufacturers in a small way, is based on annual tax liability. If the sales tax that would otherwise be payable by a manufacturer would not exceed $100 per annum, the products are exempt. The figure of $100 was set in 1957 and it is proposed that it be raised to $250. Under the proposed amendments, the exemptions related to goods for use by the sick and disabled are to be effective from 22 August 1979. This is the date already specified in the Bill as the date of operation of the proposed exemption for goods for the blind and deaf. The changes in the exemptions in favour of small manufacturers are to be effective from the date of royal assent. A memorandum explaining in more detail the amendments which I have now moved is being made available to honourable members. 
In answer to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the Government announced some weeks ago the changes that are embodied in the amendments. The general outline of the amendments themselves was given to the Opposition this morning, but I accept the honourable gentleman's stricture that that is not quite good enough. I accept that it is a preferable practice for that information to be made available earlier. I answer the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  by saying that the example he used could well fall into a grey area. I do not think it is possible for me to say in advance all of those things which would be held or regarded as being required substantially for the use of sick or disabled persons. I appreciate that there can be cases like that in legislation of this character when descriptions of the type I have outlined are used. I give to him and to the chamber an assurance that the Government will monitor pretty closely the operation of this legislation. Whilst we clearly do not wish to open the legislation for use by people who do not fall within the category I have mentioned, quite obviously we would not be unsympathetic if the legislation appears to be working in a way which is against the policy behind the change. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The annual cost to income tax revenue of allowing income tax deductions for contributions to health insurance funds is estimated at about $500m. If allowed as a rebate at the standard rate, and outside the $1,590 arrangements, the annual cost would be almost the same. 
The answer to the . honourable member's question is as follows: 
Overseas musicians who perform in Australia are taxed on their Australian earnings on the same basis as other persons, Le., the taxable income ascertained by deducting any allowable deductions from the gross earnings and ordinary rates of tax are applied'. Agreements for the prevention of double taxation which Australia has with other countries give Australia taxing rights in respect of these people with the qualification, in the case of a United States resident where the visit is a short term one, that Australia's taxing rights are conditional upon the services in Australia not being performed on behalf of a United States resident Where this condition is not met the Australian earnings of a United States musician are exempt in Australia and taxable at home. 
Information on the amount of tax paid by overseas musicians is not recorded separately. 
-I am pleased to inform the honourable member for Cook and the House that the new schedules reflecting the reversion to the standard rate as from 1 December will be published tomorrow and will be available to paymasters and employers on Monday of next week. Those schedules will contain the details of the increase in the take-home pay of all wage and salary earners throughout Australia as from 1 December. While I am on my feet, I might inform the House that in recent weeks the most uptodate Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development survey of comparative tax rates amongst the 24 member countries has become available. When one examines the figures for all taxation collections, which include personal taxes as well as indirect taxes, one sees that the OECD average, as a percentage of gross domestic product, is 36.19 per cent. It is interesting to note that Australia's total tax collection as a percentage of its gross domestic product is, according to this most recent survey, only 29.68 per cent, which is about 7 per cent below the average. I point out to the House that Sweden, which is often held up by the Australian Labor Party as the epitome, of how to organise an economic system, has the staggering figure of 53.38 per cent as a percentage of gross domestic product. In case anybody imagines that the Opposition would dissociate itself from these sorts of policies, let me read a very interesting little extract from a speech which was delivered on 2 March 1979 and which was called the 'F. E. Chamberlain Memorial Lecture'. It reads: 
The challenge to traditional democratic socialism has been expressed in a number of deeply dispiriting doctrines. 
That is marvellous alliteration. It continues: 
One example is the rapid spread of philosophies based on lower taxes and smaller government. 
The speech goes on to say: 
This sort of approach strikes directly at the conventional democratic socialist notion that equality and equity can only be assured by a stronger public sector. 
The author of those words is the present Leader of the Opposition. 
My attention has been drawn to the particular survey to which the honourable member for Lilley referred, although in the time available since it was published I have not had an opportunity to study it in detail. Therefore, I cannot offer any view on the conclusions that are reached. Certainly, I would agree with the honourable member for Lilley that information as to business developments generally is always information that governments ought to have available. I would like to make it very clear to him that I would not regard it, and I do not believe the Government would regard it, as a profitable exercise to monitor the sort of developments of which he speaks as a precursor or precondition of some activity by the Federal Government to prevent those developments. 
I know there can be arguments both for and against on the question of how much economic power and economic decision-making ought to be concentrated in particular parts of Australia. I say to the honourable gentleman that in recent weeks I would not have thought that some of the residents of what he calls the outlying States have been all that unsuccessful in certain takeover activities that have occurred. I believe that the long term interests of this country lie not in equalising downwards but rather in equalising upwards as far as the economic benefits to the country are concerned. 
-The Leader of the Opposition cannot restrain himself. He says that everything is being run from Sydney and Melbourne. I will tell him what the present situation is. According to the latest figures available to me from the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges, of the 1,110 public companies in Australia the numbers regarding the individual exchanges in Australia as their home exchanges are as follows: Adelaide, 92; Brisbane, 92; Hobart, 24; Melbourne, 287; Perth, 1 10; and Sydney, 505. Of course, more companies will regard the Melbourne and Sydney stock exchanges as their home exchanges and fewer will regard other exchanges as their home exchanges. That is a state of affairs that has always existed. I put it to the House that what has to be done in Australia is to maximise the size of the economic cake. The most efficient and effective way of maximising the size of the economic cake is for governments to accept what is a reality, that is, that the business sector itself is far better at making business decisions than is the government at making business decisions for it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The information is summarised in the table below. Details of assessments issued to 29 June 1979 are also included. 
The present Government is concerned about policies which produce or would be likely to produce higher taxation and for that reason since it has been in office it has persistently followed a policy of trying to restrain its own expenditure because, unlike the Opposition, the Government does not believe that we can have high expenditure and low taxation. What the Opposition really believes in- the honourable member for Gellibrand, who is the economic spokesman for the Opposition, is the authority whom I quote- is expanding the public sector with greater public expenditure. If the Opposition were in government such a policy could be financed only if it were prepared to increase taxation. What this Government has done since it has been in office has been along the lines of making the taxation system fairer. As honourable members know, this Government has done more about tax avoidance than any of its predecessor governments since the end of the Second World War. We have simplified the taxation scales. I make no apology for the fact that this Government has set about giving relief to all sections of the taxpaying community. It is all very well for the honourable member for Gellibrand to cite statistics on percentage increases in taxation. The honourable member knows very well that in any system of progressive taxation the increases in percentage terms in the amounts of taxation paid by those people who are just over the tax free threshold are very large indeed simply because of the ordinary operation of the progressive taxation scale. The honourable member ought to bear in mind the overall amounts of tax that are involved as well as the percentage increases. 
So that there can be no doubt about the situation, I say to the honourable member for Burke and to the House that a person who lives entirely upon the pension will not pay any tax. The honourable member for Burke, in shaking his head, misunderstands the situation. It is true - 
If the honourable member would let me answer the rest of the question his excitement could be contained. It is true that through a combination of the operation of the tax-free threshold and the fact that the tax-free threshold will not increase this year- the Government makes no secret about that- a portion of income earned in addition to the pension will be liable for taxation. The honourable gentleman is correct to that extent in asking his question, but he is not correct in implying that somebody living totally on a pension will be liable for taxation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The revenue forgone in the years from 1975-76 to 1978-79 as a result of the special deductions for expenditure on prospecting andmining for petroleum were estimated as follows: 1975-76-$19m; 1976-77-$22m; 1977-78-$13m; 1978-79-$ 16m. 
These amounts related to the deduction of capital expenditure allowable under the special mining provisions, but not the ordinary provisions, of the income tax law. Revenue was also forgone to the extent that certain deductions for the cost of plant were allowed over shorter periods of time than is the case with the general run of taxpayers. As indicated in the parts of the statements attached to the Budget Speeches that relate to Industry Assistance through the Taxation System, concessions of this latter kind, while allowing no greater total deduction over the life of the plant than would otherwise be available, permit a deferment of tax that is a cost to the Budget. 
The deductions in question are similar to those allowable under the provisions of the income tax law applying to general mining. To put the figures in perspective, it should be noted that the net tax assessed to companies coded to the industry Mining- Metallic and fuel minerals and services to mining, which includes oil producers, was $370m in respect of the 1975-76 income year and $564m for the 1976-77 income year. 
-For the information of honourable members, I present the Foreign Investment Review Board report 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tables contain details of: 
gross excise duty on petroleum products collected by the Australian Government in each State and Territory and in total for the financial years 1964-65 to 1978-79. 
gross excise duty on crude petroleum and liquid petroleum gas collected by the Australian Government for the financial years 1 975-76 to 1 978-79. This excise duty, known as the 'crude oil levy' was introduced on 19August 1975. 
It should be noted that the values shown are the gross and not the net excise duty collected as details are not available of the repayments made to Australian Government Departments, most Commonwealth Authorities and all Diplomatic Missions as a result of their eligibility for duty free petroleum products. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House has a general debate covering this Bill, the Wheat Levy Bill (No. 1 ) 1979, the Wheat Levy Bill (No. 2) 1979, the Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Amendment Bill 1979, the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill 1979, the Wheat Tax Bill 1979 and the Wheat Research Amendment Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
It is a singular commentary on the concern of the Opposition about the extent to which the public perceives this Government as having done something about tax avoidance that the Leader of the Opposition should ask a question such as that. When I answered the question yesterday I was talking about the legislative activity of this Government against tax avoidance. I was contrasting it in particular with the legislative inertia and inactivity of the Government of which he was Treasurer. 
In answering that question and in drawing a comparison between what this 
Government has done and what earlier governments failed to do, I had in mind particularly the ringing rhetoric of the Leader of the Labor Party in 1972, when he said that marginal tax rates were already too high and that a Labor government would close all the loopholes. Not only did that Labor Government fail to close all the loopholes, but on top of that, the present Leader of the Opposition has repudiated the proposition of his predecessor that marginal taxation rates are too high. As everybody knows, not only did the Government of which he was a member do nothing serious about tax avoidance, but also the Party which he now leads believes in a marginal tax rate of 80c in the dollar. I cannot think of anything more calculated to take away the types of incentives that the taxation reforms of this Government have brought to the taxpaying population of Australia than the sorts of taxation measures that the Leader of the Opposition and his colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand, espouse. 
I will reply specifically to the Leader of the Opposition. He asks that we introduce punitive, retrospective legislation, in respect of all schemes declared by the Commissioner of Taxation to be of a certain character. I can say to the honourable gentleman that the Government will not be proposing legislation of that character. We are committed to a policy of responding speedily to specific tax avoidance schemes when they are identified. We do not believe in the sort of approach espoused by the Leader of the Opposition, and given far greater articulation by  Senator Gareth  Evans in another place, as to the attitude of the Labor Party towards taxation legislation. The facts and the record of this Government and of its predecessors speak for themselves. This Government's record in responding effectively to tax avoidance is a record to which all members on this side of the House give very strong support. The figure of $230m included in the Budget this year is the best estimate that was supplied to me by the Commissioner of Taxation. On the basis of information that has come to my attention since that estimate was supplied, I have no reason to vary it. As the Leader of the Opposition would know, or should know from his own experience as Treasurer, it is an estimate which can be made by the Treasury and the Taxation Office only on the basis of information available when it is compiled. 
-The Government intends to introduce legislation before the Parliament rises for the Christmas recess. It will give broad effect to the announcement that I made in June of this year. The intention of the Government is that the legislation should lie on the table of the House during the recess for study and examination. 
-by leave- On 26 July last I announced on behalf of the Government, measures in relation to the taxation of income of trusts and dependent children. That announcement, before the introduction of the relevant legislation, facilitated the consideration of the broad proposals by the professions and by the community. The Government regarded this as a desirable process in order to avoid any unintended consequences of the measures. Many representations have been received on the proposals. Whilst there has been broad support for the essential thrust of the July announcement, there have been some specific representations questioning certain aspects of the proposals. 
As well as receiving representations from a large number of individuals, there have also been considered expressions of opinion from representative bodies including the National Farmers Federation, the Law Society of New South Wales, the Taxation Institute of Australia, the Taxpayers Association of Australia and a number of other professional bodies. I have also received valuable comments from the Taxation Sub-Committee of the Government Members' Treasury Committee. After carefully considering all representations, the Government remains firmly of the view that the essential objectives of the original decision should be maintained. However, it has decided on certain important modifications designed to eliminate potential anomalies and unintended consequences. I shall outline these for the benefit of the House. Before I do that, let me recall that I announced in July that, subject to important exceptions, income of dependent children is to be taxable at the middle rate of personal income tax, that is 47.07 per cent this year, and that most accumulating income of trust estates is to be taxed at the maximum rate of personal income tax, that is 61.07 per cent for 1979-80. 1 stressed then that: 
1 ) Children in full time employment will not be affected by the new system at all; 
nor will people who are married; 
handicapped children who are permanently incapacitated for work will be outside the scope of the new system; 
so will double orphans, and handicapped children incapable of taking on full time employment, if they are not supported by relatives; 
income derived from a deceased estate will not be affected; 
salary or wages, and other remuneration for services rendered on a part time basis, will not attract any special tax; and 
income, including trust income from the investment of compensation moneys will likewise not be affected. 
These exclusions will still remain. The first of two key modifications now proposed is that the new system for taxing income of dependent children will not apply to student children aged  18  to  25  years. It will be limited to children who, at the end of the income year, are under the age of  1 8  years. While there is a case for proceeding on the basis that a full time student over the age of  1 8  years is a dependent child, like a person under that age, we have come to the conclusion that, in the light of other modifications to the system that I will mention shortly, the case for keeping students over  18  within the system is not sufficiently strong. In particular, it has been put to the Government that keeping such students within the system disadvantages them by restricting their ability to generate sufficient income to cover the cost of their own education. If such students had decided not to continue their education they would not have been affected by the proposed changes. 
The second important change is that the level of non-employment income exempted from the new system is to be increased from  $416  per annum to  $1,040  per annum. The  $1,040  per annum level is already the threshold for a number of trusts, namely those for children under  16  covered by section  98  of the Income Assessment Tax Act. In extending the income level in this way, we are excluding what is income derived from only modest investments. Where the non-employment income, that is the income not specifically excluded from the new system, is  $1,040  per annum or less it will be taxed in the ordinary way. For example, if the total taxable income of a child with nonemployment income of  $1,040  per annum or less does not exceed  $3,893-  the amount up to which the zero rate of tax applies- no tax will be payable. If non-employment income exceeds $  1 ,040  per annum, shading-in arrangements will apply so that, at  1 979-80  rates of tax, the  47.07  per cent minimum rate of tax on non-employment income under the new system will not be fully applicable until the non-employment income exceeds  $3,625.  Thus, under the modified arrangements, tax on non-employment income of  $ 1 ,500  would, if it were the only taxable income, be  $303.60. 
In my statement of  26  July I made it clear that income from deceased estates would not be affected by the new system. It has become apparent from the representations the Government has received that there are a number of situations which on their merits should receive the same treatment as that for income from deceased estates but which are not strictly within the exclusion I identified on  26  July. It is therefore proposed that as well as excluding income a dependent child derives as a beneficiary of a deceased estate, there will also be excluded any income that a child derives in consequence of being left property by a deceased person, for example, dividends from shares bequeathed to the child and income arising from the investment of a cash legacy. In similar vein, income from the investment of other sums coming directly to a child on a person's death, such as the proceeds of a life insurance policy or a lump sum from a superannuation fund payable to the child, will also be excluded. So too will income from investment of an ex gratia grant by an employer arising out of the death of an employee, for example, where no superannuation is payable. 
It may sometimes happen that a parent dies without having made adequate provision for his or her children- property is left to the surviving parent who then finds it necessary to settle part of it on the children. Income coming to a child in this indirect way on the death of a person will also be excluded from the new system, but only if the trust or other arrangement for the child is made within  3  years after the death. 
It will also be a condition that, in total, the excluded income as a result of the death does not exceed that which would have flowed if the child had received the benefit under the rules of intestacy. While it does not relate to the new system for taxing 'non-employment' income, I mention, at this point that the Government has now decided that the rules for taxing income of deceased estates to which no beneficiary is or is deemed to be presently entitled- broadly, accumulating income of the estate- are not to be changed from those that applied in  1978-79.  Before leaving the subject of deceased estates, I mention, only because of abuses that have occurred in the past, that the various rules I have mentioned for income resulting from death are to be subject to safeguards against arrangements designed to exploit them, for example by channelling income or property into an estate to give them the formal character of income or property of the estate. 
It has all along been made clear that, to the extent they are reasonable in amount, salary and wages and other income from services rendered are to be outside the new system applicable to income of dependent children. A number of representations have suggested that we should take this exclusion further. For example, it is possible that a child may carry on a small business, and the legislation will make it clear that income from the business is also to be excluded. Moreover, income from the investment of savings out of a child's income from his or her own efforts, whether in the form of salary or wages for employment, payments for personal services, or profits from the conduct by the child of a business, is to be excluded. Also to be excluded is income from the investment of savings out of any other income of the child that is itself income of a type that is excluded; for example, savings out of income from deceased estates, from legacies, or from the investment of compensation moneys. Also in the excluded categories will be income from the investment of verifiable winnings by a child from legally authorised lotteries. 
Safeguards against exploitation of the exclusions will, of course be necessary. These will aim to ensure that, for example, in the case of income from a business, it is really the child 's own business and that the profits of the business have not been inflated by the diversion of income to it by a relative or other person not at arm's length. Similarly, in the case of investment income, there will need to be safeguards to ensure that the amounts invested, and the return on the investment, are not inflated by assets or income diverted from relatives or other persons not at arm's length. In July, I indicated that income received directly or through a trust from investment of 'compensation moneys' would not be affected by the new system. Compensation moneys were specified as extending to damages awarded by a court- and amounts paid in settlement of damages claims- where the claim was for personal injury, medical negligence, assault or loss of parental support. 
Some representations have been concerned that this exception may not extend to broadly similar cases where a public fund is established and maintained for the relief of persons in necessitous circumstances. An example of this is where, on the death of a person, a public appeal is made for members of the deceased's family. 
There have been a number of cases of this kind of which honourable members will be aware. In some of them the money raised is settled on trust, and the income is either paid or applied for the benefit of the beneficiaries or, in part, accumulated. In other cases, the amount raised may be paid directly to the members of the deceased's family. 
The Government has decided that, as in the case of income from compensation payments, income from the investment of funds raised by such public appeals will be excluded from the higher rates of tax under the new system, whether it is derived directly by the person for whom the funds were raised or indirectly through a trust. Where income is accumulated in a trust of this kind and no beneficiary has an indefeasible vested interest in the income, the income will be taxed in the same way as in the past; that is, at personal rates of tax but without the zero rate. Of course, a beneficiary with an indefeasible vested interest is taxed as being presently entitled to the income. I add that, in response to several representations, the Government has decided that the new system should not apply to income from court-ordered settlements arising as a result of divorce or judicial separations. 
There remains one area of difficulty. People have been concerned about the possibility of situations arising in which persons who are committed to arrangements that have been made in the past find that the tax resulting from the new system for taxing income of dependent children is higher than what the tax would have been if the arrangements had never been entered into. This has led to representations that the new system should not be applied to any income if its application would result in more tax being payable than if the arrangements had not been entered into. 
Accordingly, the Commissioner of Taxation is to be given discretionary power to reduce, and in appropriate cases to eliminate, the additional tax payable under the new system to the extent that he considers it would be unreasonable for the tax to be paid. This power will be exercisable where the income arises under arrangements made on or before 26 July 1 979. The relieving power will ordinarily not be available unless the persons concerned establish that the tax payable on the non-employment' income of a child under the new system is greater than the tax that would have been payable on that income if it had been added to the income of the child 's parent. If one of the parents has a higher taxable income than the other, the reference will be to the taxable income of that parent. If the child has minor brothers and sisters also in receipt of 'nonemployment' income, the 'non-employment' income of all of them will be added to that of the relevant parent for the purposes of this comparison. 
Safeguards will be necessary. For example, for the purposes of the comparison the Commissioner will be authorised to disregard artificial 'paper' tax avoidance arrangements designed to reduce or eliminate the taxable income of the parent concerned. Against the possibility that, notwithstanding the relief available under this discretionary power and the specific exceptions and exclusions, cases arise where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the exaction of the full amount of the tax payable under the new system would entail serious hardship, the Commissioner is also to have a residual discretion not to impose part or any of the additional tax. 
In my statement on 26 July I indicated that it had been estimated that the new arrangements should provide additional revenue of some $125m in a full year. The changes I have just described are estimated to reduce this by some $55m, of which approximately $30m is attributable to the increase in the threshold amount from $416 to $1,040. It is planned that legislation to implement these changes will be brought before Parliament next week. I present the following paper: 
Income Tax- Trusts and Dependent ChildrenMinisterial Statement, 14 November 1979. 
Motion ( by  Mr Peacock)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ability and willingness of the Austraiian capital market and Australian companies to provide risk capital to take up equity in new natural resource development projects will influence the levels of Australian and foreign ownership in these projects. In its administration of the foreign investment guidelines, the Government is concerned to ensure that Australians have full opportunity to participate in resource development projects, that worthwhile projects are not held up if Australian equity capital is not initially available, but that appropriate arrangements are made to phase in Australian equity as soon as it is commercially feasible to do so. 
No. 
3 ) Australia 's endowment of natural resources places it in a favourable position vis-a-vis many other countries. However, the Government recognises that this endowment is only one of the factors determining the level of investment in Australia. Accordingly, it has steadily pursued a range of economic policies designed to create an overall climate conducive to new investment. 
The Government does not believe that it would be appropriate, as a matter of general principle, to offer life offices or superannuation funds some 'inducement' to place their funds in particular kinds of private sector investments. That is a matter for decision by individual offices or funds having regard to any relevant supervisory legislation, rates of potential return, prudential considerations and so on. It should be noted that a number of the larger life companies have been making substantial investments in major natural resources projects in recent years. 
The '30/20' rule, which is contained in the Income Tax Assessment Act, was designed, at the time of its introduction, to encourage investment by life offices and superannuation funds in public sector securities. Whether that remains an appropriate objective of policy, and the implications of the 30/20 rule for the capital market more generally, are questions which are currently under examination by the Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System. 
Use of Motor Gasoline in Aircraft (Question No. 4803) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
During the 1979-80 Budget preparations, the long standing policy of not allowing tax deductions for gifts to overseas aid agencies, other than in the most exceptional circumstances, of which Kampuchea and Timor were seen as examples, was reviewed and confirmed. An important consideration underlying this policy is that the general taxpayer is, in effect, already making a significant contribution through Australia's official overseas aid program (over $485 million is provided for this program in 1979-80) and should generally not be required, in addition, to meet pan of the cost incurred by those who wish to make personal voluntary contributions to particular organisations. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report of the Treasury 1978-79. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Although there has been significant growth in the absolute size of the net invisibles deficit (reflecting both economic growth and inflation), this growth has been broadly in line with that in the rest of the economy. The ratio of the invisibles deficit to GDP (about 3.7 per cent in 1978-79) has been relatively stable over the last ten years. 
Continuing deficits of this nature in one area of external transactions are thus no more than a reflection of the fact that it is efficient for Australia to be a net importer of certain services, including insurance. Insurance transactions are spread throughout the invisibles account and official statistics are not available to show their effect on the net invisibles deficit. 
The purchase of reinsurance cover is of course a matter for individual insurance companies to consider in the light of matters such as their financial strength and the nature of the insurance business they underwrite. In practice the industry in Australia has found it necessary to have substantial access to overseas markets. Some considerations of relevance to this practice are the relatively small reinsurance capacity of the Australian market, the concentration of reinsurance facilities overseas (particularly in the United Kingdom but also in Europe and the United States) and the need to achieve an appropriate spread of risk. 
No. Implementation of such a prohibition would result in an undue degree of Government intervention of the affairs of insurance companies and would be costly to administer. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer to Parliamentary Question 4328 provided by the Minister for National Development  (Hansard, 6  November 1979, page 2657). 
-The Leader of the Opposition asked an important question about interest rate differentials between Australia and the United States. Of course, the rise in United States interest rates and the duration of the high rates ultimately will have an impact upon other countries. Nobody can deny that. Nobody who understands the situation ought to try to deny it. The extent of the impact will depend upon a variety of factors. It will depend upon the relative interest rates at the time the rises occurred. It will also depend upon the duration of the rises. As I think was said by the Acting Treasurer when the United States Federal Reserve announced its moves on 9 October, the Government will watch the situation very carefully. 
It is true that there has been an outflow of capital during September and October. I think it also ought to be said that the trade account of the Commonwealth for the first four months of this financial year shows that exports have risen by 40 per cent compared with the same period in the previous year; that our international reserves are standing at a six-year high and at the end of October were over $4,000m - 
-It is true that effects of the valuation of gold have played a significant role in that, but it is equally true that whereas during the first six months of the last financial year we borrowed $ 1,031m on official account, in other words to supplement our reserves, the total borrowing expected for the same period in 1979-80 when the current yen borrowing is completed will be only $280m. The Leader of the Opposition may well interject about the effects of the valuation of gold, but equally he ought to acknowledge that the underlying strength of the Australian dollar and the underlying improvement in our balance of payments over a period have permitted a much lower level of official borrowing. Nothing can hide the fact that months ago the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand were saying that we were committed to a never ending cycle of overseas borrowing. Of course, the wisdom of the Government's policy in that respect has been demonstrated. There has been some firming of short term interest rates in Australia over the last couple of months, but the exchange rate has continued to be managed in a very flexible manner. 
I also point out to the Leader of the Opposition and to the House that to 13 November sales of government securities to the non-bank public, which are always a reliable indicator of the relevance and the sufficiency of official interest rates, totalled $41 lm. When one bears in mind that that includes $223m worth of Australian savings bonds and that the domestic deficit to be funded is only $875m, which is less than half the domestic deficit of 1977-78, one starts to see some of the innuendo in the question of the Leader of the Opposition exposed for what it is- an attempt to make rash judgments about the impact of United States interest rate rises on the conduct of monetary policy in Australia. I say to the Leader of the Opposition that the Government will continue to monitor the situation very closely. What has happened in recent months has demonstrated an underlying strength of the Australian dollar and the correctness of the monetary policy which has thus far been followed. The Government has no intention of departing from the conduct of that policy over the coming weeks. 
-I had not seen or heard of anything said in the Senate this morning by my colleague,  Senator Guilfoyle,  until the honourable member for Melbourne Ports asked his question. I have no recollection of having discussed this matter with anybody, but I will check that recollection. If I have any reason to revise it I will let the honourable member know. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am aware that concern has been expressed by some people within the insurance industry about the underwriting losses experienced by some insurers and the possibility of further underwriting losses being experienced. I am also aware that the insurance industry is confronted with a situation of widespread rate cutting. I note that the Insurance Commissioner's latest Annual Report indicates that most insurers are now in a better financial situation than in past years (page 34). That Report also indicates that an overall net profit before taxation of $206 million was earned by direct underwriters for the year ended 3 1 December 1 978. 
and (4) The Government does not believe that existing circumstances within the industry call for steps to be taken by Government to 'rationalise' the industry. We see that as essentially something for the working out of normal market forces. Subject to the supervisory arrangements established by the Insurance Act 1973, it remains a matter for insurance companies themselves to decide upon questions such as mergers or the optimum size of the insurance business they may wish to operate. 
5 ) and ( 6 ) The terms of reference of the Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System provide scope for the Committee to report on the insurance industry. I understand that the Committee is examining certain aspects of the industry. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-It is true that on the recommendation of the Foreign Investment Review Board I approved the acquisition to which the honourable gentleman referred. The honourable gentleman obviously has an interest in the matter. I will check the taxation position of the acquiring company. My recollection, without checking, is that the company was owned to a significant measure by the United Kingdom organisation to which the honourable gentleman referred in his question. As to the exact operations of the Income Tax Assessment Act regarding the profits of that company, I would like to check the position. If there is any further information that I can supply, I will do so for the benefit of the honourable member and the House. 
The honourable member asked about benefit to Australia. The foreign investment policy requires the Government and the Foreign Investment Review Board to take into account net economic benefits, including the question of what is offered by the proposed purchaser, be it a foreign purchaser or a domestic purchaser, in terms of the development of the property. On this occasion I was satisfied that net economic benefits would be available in terms of potential development of the property to warrant approval. 
-The honourable member rightly draws attention to the fact that from time to time calls are made by a wide spectrum of individuals and groups in the community for the introduction of a flat rate of personal income tax. I can understand why many people would like to have a flat rate of tax. Removing some of the progressive characteristics of our personal income tax system has been one of the major things that this Government has set out to do. As the honourable member knows, the great innovation of the standard rate system reduced from seven to three the number of steps in the income tax scale and, therefore, was of itself a move towards a system which contained less progression in personal income tax. 
I think it is worth while my saying that people who in the past have suggested various rates of flat tax ought to remember the implications of some of those rates. For example, if there were to be a flat rate of tax of 20 cents in the dollar, which is sometimes referred to, and if the tax free threshold were to be retained, that would result in a very significantly smaller amount of revenue being collected. If we were to maintain the present tax free threshold of $3,893 and collect the same amount of revenue, it would be necessary to bring in a flat rate of taxation of 35 cents in the dollar. That, of course, would represent an increase in taxation for about 85 per cent or 90 per cent of the community. Those who at the moment are stridently saying that we ought to have a flat rate of tax ought to remember that fact and ponder whether it would be fair to increase tax for 85 per cent of the community in order to reduce it for the other 1 5 per cent. 
Perhaps an examination of some figures- I think that honourable members who are trying to interject will be interested in them- will illustrate the benefit to the taxpayer of the sizable tax free threshold. We often hear people say that they pay such and such an amount in tax. It is interesting that for a person to be paying 20 per cent of his income in tax he has to be earning a taxable income of over $9,850. He does not pay 32 per cent of his total income in tax until he earns a taxable income of $23,000. He does not pay 50 per cent of his income in tax until he earns a taxable income of $72,000. True it is that at the margin for additional dollars people will pay different rates of tax, but I think that those figures illustrate the impact of a flat rate of taxation. They also illustrate the benefit in average taxation terms for the taxpayer of the tax free slice of income that was introduced with the standard rate system by this Government in 1977. 1 believe that the reforms that were brought in then remove much of the progressive element. Those who call for further changes ought be bear in mind some of the implications in the statistics I have spelt out. 
-by leave- I wish to inform the House that the Government has decided that the next census of population and housing will be conducted by the Bureau of Statistics on 30 June 1981. Regulations specifying the topics to be included in the census, in addition to those set out in the Census and Statistics Act, will be tabled shortly. In order that the Parliament and the general public should be fully informed on the questions to be asked in the census, I shall seek leave at the conclusion of this statement to table two papers. The first deals with Topic Evaluation and Proposed Questions and the second, entitled 'The 1981 Census of Population and Housing', is a more general description of the topics included and the methods of conducting the census. Nearer the date of the census, additional regulations will be tabled on census procedures. These will take into account the relevant recommendations by the Law Reform Commission in its report 'Privacy and the Census' which was tabled on 15 November by the Attorney-General. 
Among the many recommendations made by the Law Reform Commission in that report, there are two on which the Government considered it desirable to take immediate decisions in view of the stage reached with preparations for the 1981 census. The first is the recommendation by the Commission that the Census and Statistics Act 1905 be amended to require that the precise questions to be asked in a census are set out in the regulations. The Government has decided not to accept this recommendation in relation to the 1 98 1 census for which the passage of regulations is now urgently required to enable the printing of forms to commence and other census deadlines be met. In respect of later censuses the Government will give further consideration to this recommendation. The Government does, however, agree with the basic intention of the recommendation, which is that Parliament be fully informed at the time it considers the regulations. Consequently the first of the documents I have already referred to sets out proposed question wordings, together with information on the uses of data to be collected and the results of the Statistician's evaluation of question tests. Final wording of questions and definitions, and the sequencing of questions, will be decided in the light of further tests and any comments received on these aspects. 
The second recommendation of the Law Reform Commission, on which the Government has made a decision, is the recommendation that information on identified persons and households should not be destroyed but should be transferred in some form to archives, with access for most purposes forbidden for 75 years. The Government has noted that the recommendation is expressed as a provisional view of the Commission and that its Chairman considers it to be a matter on which the Commission should not put forward a recommendation. The Government has carefully weighed the arguments for and against the proposal and has decided not to accept it. 
The purpose of the census is to gather statistical information and the legal obligation on people to answer census questions- except one relating to religion- is accompanied by strict measures to ensure the confidentiality of the information provided. The Government believes that it would be inconsistent with that purpose and with that guarantee of confidentiality to retain information on identified persons or households for the research purposes referred to in the Commission's report. Consequently the present practice of destroying all records of names and addresses and of not entering into the computer record such names and addresses will be continued. 
The census is the most wide-ranging collection undertaken by the Australian Bureau of Statistics as it involves contact with every household in the country. It provides a considerable amount of information used extensively by government bodies for policy formulation and monitoring. It provides a statistical profile of the whole population in terms of number, age and geographical distribution, and in terms of a range of demographic and social characteristics. Users include government agencies at the Federal, State and local level; welfare and social service organisations; research institutions; bodies undertaking regional, manpower and educational studies; demographers; business organisations; and private individuals. 
Because of the need to contain costs, and mindful of the reporting burden on the community, the Government has decided that the census will seek a total of 43 responses from households compared with 68 in 1976. The inclusion of many additional topics was requested by users, but the topics selected by the Government are considered to represent a reasonable balance between the need for information, the appropriateness of the census as a means of collecting particular kinds of data, the difficulty with some topics of formulating questions likely to get accurate and consistent answers, and the desire that completing the forms should not impose too great a task on the public. 
The Government recognises that asking questions of householders in order to obtain statistical information involves a degree of intrusiveness and places a burden on the community. The Government has aimed to minimise both burden and intrusion, but, nevertheless, accepts that some degree of each is a necessary corollary to the collection of statistical data. 
In an exercise such as the population census which affects every household in Australia, it is essential that public co-operation and acceptance be obtained in order to achieve a high level and quality of response. For this reason the Government has decided that a substantial public awareness campaign should be conducted prior to the census. The aims will be to make known the availability of assistance for those who may, for language or other reasons, experience difficulty in completing the form, to explain the measures taken to ensure the confidentiality of the information provided and to explain the uses made of the statistics obtained from the census. 
Honourable members will recall that, because of budgetary constraints, detailed processing of the data from the 1976 census was delayed for one year. Also, detailed processing was carried out on a sample of 50 per cent of census forms, with the exception of the Northern Territory where all forms were processed. The Government has decided that forms collected at the 1 98 1 census will be processed fully and without delay so that detailed, timely information is available to all users as soon as possible. This decision highlights the importance which the Government places on the census as a means of collecting important social and economic data, which is of primary concern to a wide range of users. 
The Australian Statistics Advisory Council has given a lot of time to considering plans for the 198 1 census and their conclusions have been of great assistance to the Government in reaching its decisions. I now table the two papers to which I referred earlier. 
-I seek the indulgence of the Chair. 
In answering the question asked by the honourable member for Tangney yesterday, I set out to explain some of the implications of some calls for a flat rate system of personal taxation that are currently being made in Australia. I pointed out what the implications would be for the great body of taxpayers if one introduced a flat rate of taxation and sought to preserve the existing tax free threshold for all taxpayers. I think that anybody who understands the progressive taxation system will know that, in a sense, the Government made a move towards a flat rate system of taxation when it reduced the number of steps in the progressive scale from seven to three. Equally I do not believe that anybody ought to infer from the comment I have just made that further moves in that direction are necessarily seen by the Government as being within its capacity or economically feasible. But I can assure the honourable member for Hume that I have read his remarks in the House in which he outlined a system in this area that he thought might be workable. I thank him for his contribution to the continuing debate on ways and means by which the Australian taxation system might be improved. Further reforms in the taxation area remain very much under surveillance. Part of that surveillance will naturally include the sorts of ideas put forward by the honourable member in his speech. 
-To take the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first, it is an aspiration of this Government to reduce personal tax. In saying that, I would like to remind the honourable gentleman of one self-evident economic reality; that unless the community is prepared to accept fewer services from government, personal or any other form of taxation cannot be responsibly reduced. It is absolutely impossible for any government responsibly to reduce taxation unless there is a commensurate control of its own expenditures. I believe that the record of this Government in achieving a better balance between the public and private sectors, and in getting back into balance what the Government collects through taxation and what it expends, compares very favourably with the performance of other countries. 
But more specifically, the honourable member for Higgins asked me about the cash economy. I have no doubt that significant amounts of tax are evaded, as distinct from being avoided, through the cash economy; simply through people either deliberately understating their incomes or, separately, through people not disclosing any income at all. The honourable gentleman asked me to put a figure on the amount of tax evaded. I cannot confirm or dispute his figure of $ 1 billion. I do not have sufficient information on which to base a categorical estimate of the amount of money that is involved. I believe that levels of taxation do have an impact on the extent of avoidance and evasion in the community. One would be putting one's head in the sand if one did not acknowledge that. But equally I do not believe that the remedy for evasion and avoidance lies simply in a reduction in the marginal rate of tax, although that would obviously make a contribution. The very nature of some tax evasion and tax avoidance practices in recent years indicates that people are not just interested in reducing the amount of their tax; many of them are interested in wiping out the totality of their taxation. The argument of those people that the sole purpose of their entering into a scheme or evading tax is simply to bring their rates of tax down to fairer levels is denied by their very actions. 
Pursuant to section 10 (2) of the Primary Industry Bank Act 1 977 1 present a report on the Operation of Part 2 of that Act for the year ended 22 November 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. (3)1 refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 2082 on page 2035 of the Senate  Hansard  of 7 November 1979. 
Institute of Cultural Affairs: Model Project at Murrin Bridge  (Question No. 5055) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the Income Tax (Rates) Act 1976, which declares the rates of tax payable by individuals and trustees. Its purpose is to declare the rates of tax payable on income of dependent children, and trustees for them, that comes within the scope of the new system for taxing such income proposed in the Bill that I have just introduced. In speaking to that Bill, I mentioned that the income in question is to attract a minimum tax rate for 1979-80 of 47.07 per cent. That rate is declared in this Bill, which also provides for the special tax threshold of $1,040 that is to be available. Full details of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum that will be made available shortly. 
I should perhaps add that it will not be necessary to amend the Income Tax (Rates) Act to give effect to the changes I have announced in the rates of tax applicable to income of trusts to which no beneficiary is presently entitled. Because of the structure of the relevant legislation those changes will flow from amendments being made to relevant provisions of the Assessment Act. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Such premiums are not allowable deductions. Nor do they qualify as expenditure in respect of which concessional rebates may be allowed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 4505 in today's  Hansard 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 4505 in today's  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 4505 in today's  Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill that I now bring before the House, together with an associated tax rates Bill, gives legislative form to previously announced changes in the basis of taxing income of trusts and of dependent children. Also included in the Bill are provisions dealing with the taxation value of housing provided to employees by their employers. Previously foreshadowed measures to counter schemes of tax avoidance that seek to exploit the deduction for bad debts are another part of the Bill. The Bill will also confer tax deductions for gifts towards relief efforts in Kampuchea and East Timor. 
Let me deal first with the last of these matters. The Government believes that the level of human suffering in Kampuchea and East Timor is such that we should add to Australia's support by allowing tax deductions for gifts to the appropriate appeals. Accordingly, the special concession of a deduction for gifts of $2 or more will apply to gifts made in the current financial year to the International Disaster Emergencies Committee Kampuchean Relief Appeal and to the Australian Red Cross East Timor Appeal. The response to the appeals so far clearly indicates that the granting of tax deductions has been welcomed throughout Australia. 
Honourable members will recall that I announced broad proposals on the taxation of income of trusts and dependent children at some length on 26 July last. After a careful examination of the many responses to this announcement, from individuals and organisations, the Government decided on a number of modifications to eliminate potential anomalies and unintended consequences. Details of these were given in my statement to the House last week. Against that background, I think that I can in this speech confine myself to the main features of the proposed arrangements as reviewed and modified. 
Broadly speaking, the new system applicable to income of dependent children will apply to the taxable income, whether derived directly or through trusts, of children under the age of 18 years at the end of the year of income. But there are to be several important exceptions. Thus the new system will not in any way affect children who are married at the end of the year of income or are in full time employment then. There are also to be exclusions for double orphans and handicapped children. These exclusions will, quite properly, keep the income of a large number of children entirely outside the new system. Income not so excluded will, at base, bear tax under the proposed new system. Particular categories of income, whether derived directly or through a trust, will, however, be excluded and will attract tax only according to the tax rules applicable to individuals generally. 
Thus, income from deceased estates, or from property left to the child by a deceased person will be outside the new system. So too will income from the investment of other sums coming directly to a child on a person 's death, such as the proceeds of a life insurance policy or a lump sum from a superannuation fund. Income from property transferred to a child by another person to whom the property was left by a deceased person, if transferred within three years after the death of that person, will be excluded if within limits set by relevant rules of intestacy. A child in full time employment will, of course, be outside the new system altogether but, as regards a child not categorically excluded in this way, employment income from part time work and income from a business conducted by the child alone or with another minor will both be outside the new system. Income from the investment of compensation paid for damages, for example, for loss of parental support or for personal injury is not to be subject to the new system. Neither is income from funds raised by public appeal for the relief of persons in necessitous circumstances. Income from court-ordered settlements arising as a result of divorce or judicial separation, income from the investment of a child's lottery winnings and income from the investment of savings out of any of the excluded categories of income make up the balance of the classes of income excluded from the new system. 
Experience regrettably having shown that there will always be some who will seek to take unintended advantage of provisions designed, as these exceptions are, to provide relief in particular circumstances, the Bill contains a number of safeguards against exploitation of the exceptions to avoid tax intended to be charged. These safeguarding measures aim to ensure, for example, that profits are not diverted to a child 's business by relatives or other persons not at arm's length, and that income from a child's investment is not inflated by similar diversions. 
Income to which the new system appliestermed in the legislation 'eligible' income- will for 1979-80 be taxed at a minimum marginal rate of tax of 47.07 per cent in the hands of the person who is taxable in respect of the income. However, if the eligible income does not exceed $1,040, the special rate will not apply. That means that if the total taxable income does not exceed $3,893 and the eligible income does not exceed $1,040 no tax will be payable. If the eligible income exceeds $1,040, 'shading-in' arrangements will apply so that the special rate will not be fully applicable until the eligible income exceeds $3,625. Up to that point the average rate of tax will, of course, be lower than 47.07 per cent. As I have explained previously, if a person has other income as well as eligible income in excess of $ 1,040, the other income will be taxed in the normal way. This means that the zero rate will apply to the first $3,893 of other income, and the standard rate of 33.07 per cent to other income between $3,894 and $16,608. 
Trust income to which a child under 18 years of age is, or is deemed to be, presently entitled is already taxable in the trustee's hands and will be taxed under the new system on the same basis as would apply if the child derived the income directly. This means that, as to trust income to which the new system applies, the trustee will be taxed at the minimum marginal rate of 47.07 per cent, subject to the $1,040 threshold and shading-in arrangements. As to other trust income, the trustee will be taxed at ordinary personal tax rates including the zero rate on income up to $3,893. 
As I indicated in my statement on 14 November, the Bill will authorise relief, by way of a rebate of part or all of any increase in tax payable as a result of the new system, in respect of income arising from arrangements entered into on or before 26 July 1979. An applicant for relief will need to establish to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Taxation that the circumstances are such that it would be unreasonable that the whole of the extra tax should be payable. The basis for this relief in the ordinary case where one or both parents have a taxable income is spelt out in the legislation. It is to the effect that a child, or the trustee for a child, will be eligible for a rebate to the extent that the tax otherwise payable on the relevant eligible income is greater than the tax that would have been payable on that income if it had been derived by the parent, or the parent with the higher taxable income. If the child has minor brothers or sisters also in receipt of eligible income, the eligible incomes of all of them will be added to that of the relevant parent in ascertaining how much tax the income would have borne in the parent's hands. In determining the amount of any rebate under this provision, the fact that a parent's income has been reduced by artificial tax avoidance arrangements may be taken into account by the Commissioner. 
The Government believes that this rebate, together with the specific exceptions and exclusions provided in the Bill, should ensure that application of the new system will operate appropriately. However, to make doubly sure, the Commissioner will be given a discretionary power to allow a rebate of part or all of the extra tax payable as a result of the application of the new system if cases should arise where it is shown to his satisfaction that exaction of the full amount would entail serious hardship. In both of these discretionary areas, the Commissioner's decision will be open to the usual rights of objection and appeal. 
As previously foreshadowed, the Bill will, again with some exceptions, alter the arrangements for taxing accumulating trust income, that is to say, income of a trust to which no beneficiary has, or is deemed to have, a present entitlement. At present, this income is taxed in the trustee's hands, either at the maximum personal rate of tax or at ordinary personal tax rates but not including, except in relation to the first three years of a deceased estate, the zero rate of tax on the first $3,893 of income. The first change proposed is that a beneficiary who has an indefeasible vested interest in accumulating trust income will be treated as being presently entitled to the income. 
Other accumulating trust income will be taxed at the maximum personal tax rate, 6 1.07 per cent for 1979-80. However, subject to rules designed to guard against their exploitation for purposes of tax avoidance, there will be significant exceptions. First, the accumulating income of deceased estates will continue to be taxed as at present; that is, the income will bear ordinary personal rates of tax, including the zero rate for the first three years and will attract the benefit of a minimum taxable income of $417 and associated shading-in arrangements thereafter. Secondly, bankrupt estates, and trusts of moneys received as compensation for a particular event, trusts of moneys payable on the death of a person and funds raised by public appeal for persons in necessitous circumstances, will continue to have accumulating income taxed at ordinary personal rates of tax, without the zero rate but with a $4 1 7 minimum taxable income and associated shading-in arrangements. 
As the legislation will not be considered in the Parliament until the autumn sittings, the Government has decided that it would not now be appropriate to impose an obligation on people concerned to pay provisional tax for 1979-80 on the basis of the proposed new arrangements. This decision means that the new arrangements could be seen as having a double effect when assessments on income of the year ending 30 June 1980 are made after the end of the year. These will, of course, show both tax for 1979-80 and provisional tax for 1980-81. Accordingly, taxpayers who wish to avoid this apparent doubling-up effect may do so by applying to have 1979-80 provisional tax varied under the existing self-assessment procedure. The Bill also provides an option for those not otherwise liable to pay provisional tax for 1979-80 to pay that tax on the basis of the new arrangements. I should emphasise at this point that, whilst the Government would be happy to receive representations on technical aspects of the legislation before it is considered in the autumn, we have already given very careful thought to the substance of the trust and related measures. The changes that I announced last week, and which are incorporated in this legislation, represent the Government's considered response to the representations it has received. 
I come now to the subject of employees' housing. Honourable members may recall that on 13 June 1979, following completion by the Government of its review of the provisions dealing with taxation of the value of housing accommodation provided for employees, I foreshadowed certain changes to those provisions. As I indicated on that occasion, the Government believes that a general provision which brings to account for taxation the value of employee benefits is a necessary part of an effective system of personal taxation. Such a provision must, of course, operate in a practical manner having regard to the many and varied circumstances which it must cover. To assist in that direction, amendments proposed by this Bill will make it clear that the Commissioner of Taxation is to take into account all relevant matters in assessing for income tax purposes the value of any housing accommodation provided to an employee. In particular, the amendments proposed will ensure that, to the extent appropriate in the circumstances, specified matters will be brought into consideration as factors tending to reduce the amount of the taxable benefit. 
Remoteness or isolation of the area in which the accommodation is located is one such factor. Any lack of choice by employees in the matter of accommodation and whether occupancy is subject to any onerous conditions imposed on the employee concerned are others. Whether the quality or size of the accommodation provided exceeds the standard of accommodation that the employee would ordinarily seek is another. All these stated factors will ensure that, as far as possible, full account is taken of those circumstances which might ordinarily reduce the value to an employee of housing benefits granted by an employer. To the same effect will be a specific requirement for the Commissioner to take into account whether it is customary in the particular industry for employers to provide free housing for employees or to provide housing at a low rent. This matter is to form part of the valuation criteria because the Government is conscious of long-standing arrangements between employers and employees in some industries under which accommodation is customarily provided either without charge or for a charge less than the fair rental value of the accommodation. These arrangements are common in respect of industry and employment outside the capital cities and in relatively remote or isolated areas of Australia. 
The valuation criteria to be expressed in the law are to apply in respect of 1977-78 and subsequent income years. The Bill will authorise amendment of assessments for 1977-78 and 1978-79 made before the Bill comes into operation where the new measures would result in a reduction of the value of housing benefits included in the assessments. Such amendments may be made whether or not the employee has exercised the rights of objection and appeal that the law provides. The backdating to 1977-78 will not, of course, retrospectively create any liability for tax on housing benefits. 
Finally, the Bill contains amendments foreshadowed in my statement of 12 June 1979 to counter tax avoidance schemes that exploit the income tax deduction for bad debts. This is done through arrangements under which the loss claimed to be suffered by way of a bad debt is effectively recouped in a non-taxable form. Amendments to provide a counter to tax avoidance schemes of the recoupment type that exploit deductions ordinarily available for expenditure incurred in borrowing money, in discharging a mortgage, in the acquisition of trading stock or by way of interest or rent were foreshadowed in my statements of  24  September 1978 and 1 March 1979. They were approved by the House recently when it considered the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979. The amendments now proposed will extend the operation of those provisions so that they apply also to bad debt schemes. 
Reflecting my statement of 12 June, the amendments will mean that a deduction will not be allowable for a bad debt where the debt is incurred in respect of a loan made after 24 September 1978 as part of a tax avoidance arrangement entered into after that date. For the amendments to apply it will be necessary that the arrangement involves the receipt by the taxpayer or an associate of a compensatory benefit the value of which, when added to the tax benefit sought in respect of the bad debt, would effectively recoup the taxpayer for the loss incurred in respect of the loan so that no real loss is suffered. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you will note that the amendments proposed by this Bill are to apply to loans made after 24 September 1978. This is the date on which the Government's intention to act against recoupment arrangements was originally announced and is in accord with the warning I gave at that time that, if further recoupment schemes were to emerge, the Government would, with effect from that day, act against them as outlined in that announcement. 
My statement of 1 March 1979 with respect to schemes of this type entered into to exploit the deductions for borrowing expenses was an earnest of the Government's intention in this regard. Despite that, the bad debt schemes emerged and it has again been necessary to act. I trust that by now the Government's determination to put an end to these schemes in which taxpayers seek deductions for losses or outgoings which, in a practical sense, they do not bear is clear both to those promoting the schemes and to taxpayers contemplating paying fees to promoters for access to deductions under such schemes. However, should this still not be the case, I repeat again that the Government will not hesitate to amend the income tax law to counter any other schemes exhibiting similar features and with effect from 24 September 1978. 
I also announced on 12 June that losses generated by bad debt schemes would not be permitted to be carried forward for deduction into a future income year. This is in accord with the policy of the Government announced on 24 May 1979 that paper losses produced by tax avoidance schemes, including recoupment schemes, are not to be allowed to be carried forward as income tax deductions. The amendments proposed will mean that losses created by bad debt schemes in 1 977-78 or earlier years will not be allowed as carry-forward deductions in 1978- 79 or in subsequent income years, while such losses manufactured in the 1978-79 income year will not be deductible against income of 1979- 80 or subsequent years. As is usual, the technical features of the Bill are dealt with in an explanatory memorandum. Copies of the memorandum are not yet available, but will be provided to honourable members within the next few days. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)Yes. (2)I have been advised that the company concerned decided to defer a share issue pending clarification of certain doubts as to the scope of the proposed onshore rebate scheme. 
The report does, however, misrepresent the operation of the offshore rebate scheme under section160ACA of the Income Tax Assessment Act, where it suggests that only companies that hold current licences or permits issued under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act may lodge declarations for the purpose of conferring rebate entitlements for capital subscribed by their shareholders. In fact the law also permits companies holding a registered interest in such licences or permits to make declarations for that purpose. 
Thus companies that have entered into agreements to acquire an interest by way of a farm-in arrangement can lodge valid declarations provided the farm-in agreement has been approved and appropriately registered by the Designated Authority appointed under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. 
The announced extension of the offshore rebate scheme to companies carrying on petroleum exploration and development operations onshore is to apply in the same way. Companies holding current onshore petroleum exploration or mining licences, permits, leases, rights or interests therein are issued and registered under State mining laws will be able to take advantage of the concession. Where the State law does not provide for registration of transfers of interests such as farm-in agreements a pre-requisite to a company's eligibility to participate in the onshore rebate scheme will be that the appropriate State Minister or his delegate has formally approved the transfer or farm-in agreement in writing. 
The offshore shareholder rebate scheme is not unduly restrictive. Its extension onshore should not create undue problems for petroleum exploration and mining companies. Such restrictions as do exist are necessary safeguards against the practices which developed under the earlier shareholder concessions when companies raised capital without any firm commitment for its expenditure on petroleum exploration and without any clear prospect of obtaining a licence or permit or an interest therein. 
Legislation to extend the offshore rebate scheme to onshore petroleum exploration and development will be introduced as soon as it is practicable to do so within the context of the Government's heavy legislative program on taxation matters. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes; I understand that the companies mentioned were represented at the meeting. 
The present level of beneficial Australian ownership in each of the companies referred to in part (2 ) is considered to be as set out in the following table; the figures shown do not take account of small shareholdings of a portfolio nature held by foreign interests. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I announced on 24 January 1979 that the Government had decided not to proceed further with consideration of the introduction of a broad based indirect tax. Given that the Commissioner of Taxation's report to the Government which was received late in 1978 dealt with the practical administrative aspects of such a tax, I do not believe in the circumstances that it is appropriate to make the report public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is no simple relationship between increases in the price indexes referred to in the question and increases in the CPI. For example, if a one per cent increase in building material prices were brought about by a general increase in wage levels, the effects of that general increase could be expected to be fully reflected in the CPI in due course; on the other hand, a similar increase in building material prices brought about by an increase in the price of (say) copper would eventually be reflected in the CPI only to the extent that items in the CPI regimen were affected by retail price increases consequent upon the copper price increase. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am advised that information is not available on the extent to which Postgraduate Award holders currently undertake work as demonstrators or tutors. A proportion of Award holders have traditionally undertaken this kind of work, both as a means of supplementing Award allowances and for the teaching experience it provides. &gt; 
Presumably the honourable member here intended to refer to PAYE taxation deductions of 33.5 cents in the dollar and not 43.5 cents. The former is the current rate on a taxable income in excess of $3,893 but not exceeding $ 16,608. 
To avoid their being faced with a large tax bill at the end of a financial year, taxpayers who derive income from more than one source have their income from all but the major source taxed at the standard rate of taxation. As announced, the standard rate will revert to 32 cents in the dollar for PAYE purposes from 1 December 1979. 
The standard rate is applied in these circumstances because ordinarily, anyone who has a second source of income would, in the aggregate, be receiving income sufficient to attract that rate. The application of the tax instalment deduction arrangements usually has the result that the total of the tax instalments deducted from the income of a person with two sources of income is approximately equal to the amount of tax that would have been deducted if those earnings had been from the one source. 
There are exceptions to this and the Commissioner of Taxation may, if requested, arrange for lower instalments that those prescribed (or even no instalments at all) to be deducted if the circumstances so warrant. 
The implication here seems to be that postgraduate students undertaking additional work would, automatically as it were, receive a refund of the tax instalments deducted from their earnings because their income would be insufficient to attract tax or, if they were liable for taxation, that the instalments deducted would exceed the amount of tax payable. 
While it is clearly not possible for tax instalment schedules for general use to match the tax payable in every case, the schedules meet the requirements of the great majority of taxpayers. 
Where a taxpayer considers that instalments deducted in accordance with the schedules would be excessive, he or she may apply to have them varied. A person who wishes to do this should contact the nearest Taxation Office giving details of estimated income, allowable deductions, dependants and concessional expenditure for the year. Advice will then be given regarding the tax instalments appropriate in the particular circumstances and, if necessary, arrangements made to have instalments deducted at a lower rate or discontinued altogether. 
No. In money terms, Commonwealth Postgraduate Award Allowances are higher in 1979 than in 1977. In 1977 the allowance for an Award holder without dependants was $4,000; in 1979 it is $4,200. An Award holder with a dependant spouse received an additional $1,508 a year in 1977; this allowance has risen to $ 1,632.80 in 1979. 
Postgraduate Award Allowances will remain at the same level for 1 980 but will be reviewed again prior to 1 98 1 . As for the alleged anomaly, see the answers to parts (2) and (3). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is not the custom of the Treasury to employ exclusively any single index of the stance of fiscal policy or the overall economic impact of the budget. The complexity of the interaction between the budget and the economy necessarily renders inadequate any individual summary measure of the stance of the budget. 
I refer the honourable member to the discussion in Parts II and III of Statement No. 2 and the historical estimates provided in Statement No. 6 of this year's Budget papers for discussion relevant to the subject of his question. As is clear in those statements, the economic impact of the Budget sector should be assessed in the perspective of the overall impact of total public sector transactions of which the Budget sector is but one part. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Available statistics do not indicate how much income tax collected on assessments of individual taxpayers in the period 1 July to 30 September 1979 related to tax that was outstanding at 30 June 1 979 or was due for payment at 1 April 1979. 
At 16 November 1979, however, tax owing by individual taxpayers and due for payment before 1 April 1979 amounted to $186m. Tax owing by individual taxpayers at the same date and due for payment between 1 April 1979 and 30 June 1979 amounted to $263m. Comparable figures as at 30 June 1979 were $223m and about $389m. Changes in the amount of tax owing at any date can be due to amendment of assessments and other miscellaneous factors as well as to payments. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Available statistics do not indicate how much of the income tax collected from companies in the period from 1 July 1979 to 30 September 1979 related to tax that was outstanding at 30 June 1 979 or was due for payment at 1 April 1979. 
At 16 November 1979, however, tax owing by companies and due for payment before 1 April 1979 amounted to $165m. Tax owing by companies at the same date and due for payment between 1 April 1979 and 30 June 1979 amounted to $ 1 75m. Comparable figures as at 30 June 1 979 were $ 1 74m and about $85m. Changes in the amount of tax owing at any date can be due to amendment of assessments and other miscellaneous factors as well as to payments. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) There are no published data relating to broader measures of the volume of money than M3; data on M3 are published in the Statistical Bulletin of the Reserve Bank. However, broader measures may be constructed by adding to M3 selected liabilities of financial institutions other than banks. For example, one wider measure of the volume of money may be constructed by adding to M3 the withdrawable funds of permanent building societies. Data for the withdrawable funds of permanent building societies are available from the ABS publication, Housing Finance for Owner Occupation- Permanent Building Societies, Australia (Catalogue No. 5610.0). Another, even wider measure, could be constructed by adding (some of) the liabilities of finance companies. The choice and use of particular measures depends very much on the purpose of the analysis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has advised that one of the requirements governing appointment to service in the Corporation under the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959 is that the Corporation be satisfied regarding the applicant's health and physical fitness. 
Subject to some flexibility the Corporation's medical requirements are closely allied to the general medical standard as set out in the Handbook for Commonwealth Medical 
Officers issued by the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
Weight scales are detailed and the general medical standard is met where the variation from the scale does not exceed: 
in males- 15 per cent below or 25 per cent above; and 
in females- 20 per cent below or 25 per cent above. 
Where the applicant is outside these limits, special consideration is afforded individual cases. Generally speaking, however, the Corporation, on medical advice, prefers that the weight be adjusted to within the limits before an offer of employment is made. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has been longstanding policy that the gift provisions of the income tax law apply, so far as is practicable, only to organisations whose operations are conducted within Australia. In the case of overseas aid programs, that policy has regard to the fact that large direct financial contributions are made by Australia through a number of official aid channels. The recent departures from this policy in respect of the Kampuchea and East Timor appeals reflect the very special circumstances surrounding those appeals. 
I note that the bulk of funds raised by World Wildlife Fund Australia is allocated to Australian projects. 
