-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Construction whether early consideration will be given to instructing the Department of Construction to make it mandatory that its head contractors, their sub-contractors and its own sub-contractors employ directly and train apprentices where those contracting entities employ tradesmen? Will the Minister further cause examination to be made of ways and means which will ensure that increased numbers of apprentices are employed on Commonwealth Government construction projects? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that the telephone district of Rockingham is deemed by Telecom Australia to be a subscriber trunk dialling area although for many other practical purposes it comes within the boundaries of metropolitan Perth? Will he take early steps to have Telecom regulate for the incorporation of the telephone district of Rockingham into the locality of Perth, thereby offering relief to Rockingham telephone subscribers from STD premiums? Will he ask Telecom to take into consideration the fact that Rockingham is similar in terms of population and distance to outer metropolitan areas in other capital cities where subscribers do not have to pay STD charges? 
-Is the Minister for Science aware of the concern felt in Western Australia about the ability of weather forecasters to alert the community adequately to oncoming adverse weather? Can the Minister assure people living in remote areas of Western Australia, particularly those living along the northern and north western coastline, that they will receive sufficient warning of the movements of cyclones during the coming cyclone season? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) To what extent did the Department commission consultant architects, engineers, quantity surveyors and other specialists to prepare documentation for tenders called during 1977-78. 
On what projects were consultants engaged. 
Will the practice of involving consultants in preparation of detailed tender documents be maintained or increased during 1978-79. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is Australia unable to deliver to China approximately  250,000  tonnes of wheat which is the balance of an order calling for delivery in the period January to August  1978?  If so, when will the balance be delivered? Has China purchased approximately one million tonnes of United States wheat to make up for a shortfall in deliveries of wheat from Australia and Canada? Is Australia able to supply further wheat to China during the remainder of  1 978?  If so, how much? 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer inform the Senate of the latest statistics on new capital expenditure by private enterprises? Do the statistics for the June quarter show strong real growth in new capital equipment and in capital investment by industries other than the building industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Did the stores branch of the Department of Construction expend approximately $65m on the purchase of building materials, plant and equipment, tools and associated items required by the day labour force for 1977-78. 
What percentage of total expenditure was for: (a) building materials; (b) plant and equipment; and (c) tools and associated items. 
How much was spent by the stores branch in replacing: (a) plant and equipment; and (b) tools and associated items. 
How much was spent by the stores branch in purchasing: (a) additional plant and equipment; and (b) additional tools and associated items. 
Did expenditure by the stores branch in 1977-78 include amounts attributed to overseas aid; if so, how much. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of the reports of expected increases in property values in Western Australia which have been predicted as a result of a survey conducted recently by the Western Australian Institute of Technology whose findings have been supported by the Real Estate Institute of Western Australia? Is the Minister aware that currently there is unused capacity within the house building industry? If so, will the Government consider issuing a public statement to the effect that aspiring house owners in Western Australia and elsewhere may wish to take ad van. age of currently competitive prices and avoid possible future price increases? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 24 August, 1978: 
Was the operations turnover for Department of Construction plant and workshop activities for 1977-78 in excess of $3Om 
How much was spent in hiring plant and machinery from outside sources. 
What is the capital cost of plant and equipment under the control of the plant and workshop division of the Department. 
What was the cash surplus or deficiency achieved or incurred in 1977-78 due to plant and workshop activities. 
How much of total turnover was achieved in each of the States, the Northern Territory, and the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
Which countries comprise the 'third world countries' to which the Minister referred in his H. V. Evatt Memorial Lecture, delivered on 10 August 1 978. 
What criterion is used to determine which countries are considered to be ' third world countries '. 
Which countries have been added to or omitted from this classification since 1 January 1970. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer by referring him to the September quarter survey of industrial trends conducted by the Confederation of Australian Industry and the Bank of New South Wales. Details of the survey were released recently. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the main points made in the latest survey and the conclusions reached? 
It is not unusual for someone who finds himself in the situation in which I find myself this evening to speak on matters which do not entirely follow the main theme of the debate. However, as there are few parliamentary occasions which do not have some relevance to taxation measures, my remarks this evening should not be entirely out of place. At the outset I wish, somewhat belatedly, to congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your re-election. I look forward to receiving your guidance and assistance in the years ahead. 
By the judgment of the people of Western Australia I succeed in this place an eminent Australian citizen. The honourable Tom DrakeBrockman gave distinguished service as a senator for Western Australia for almost 20 years. During that period he held many positions in the Parliament and was a delegate on many occasions. It is not my intention to recite the details here this evening. However, I must mention his service as a Minister of the Crown over the three years ending December 1972 and, later, his term of service as  Chairman  of Committees. Tom Drake-Brockman saw service with the 10th Light Horse and subsequently with the Royal Australian Air Force. He attained the rank of flight lieutenant and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. After almost half a lifetime of service to his country, during war and peace, he carries with him into his retirement my best wishes and, I am sure, those of other honourable senators for a long and relaxed future. In my reference to my predecessor I mentioned the office of  Chairman  of Committee. I should like formally to offer my congratulations to my coalition colleague,  Senator Douglas  Scott, on his election to that high office. I wish him well and, as with you,  Mr President,  ask for his tolerance and guidance where it is earned. 
The hitherto generally accepted growth of governments in Australia has been fed by revenues which have increased year by year. Hence we have witnessed and, to a thankfully diminished degree, continue to witness the transfer of wealth from individual hands which created it to the hands of public instrumentalities which merely redistribute it. The number of consumers is being increased as the result of such redistribution while the numbers of producers is being diminished. Tax funded services which people regard as being free are partaken of without much thought as to the source of the funds. Although conceived as a compensatory measure mainly for the benefit of the less fortunate, the need for increasing tax collections to service the areas of social welfare, education and health has been shown on occasions to bring by way of response demands for more pay. That pay must come from wealth, the sum of which is declining. 
There has been a general inability on the part of politicians to destroy the myth that there is such a thing as a free lunch, leaving little alternative for governments but to borrow money or to enlarge the amount of it in circulation. In doing so, as a consequence, it is sometimes said that the future is to some extent being mortgaged to pay for the present. To complicate matters we have suffered at the hands of the most insidious tax of all, which is inflation. The Fraser Government has achieved major progress in reducing the rate of inflation, which is all the more commendable if we look at the record levels of inflation which were reached during the term of the Labor Administration. As the power to distribute wealth is transferred to Australian governments, it is natural that individuals and groups in the community at large will look to those governments to meet more and more of their needs, whether it is reasonable to do so. Amongst the groups which are looking towards government to provide a panacea for difficulties, both of their own making and otherwise, are sectors from private industry. In that context I quote from F. A. Hayek in  Individualism and Economic Order  which was published in 1963. He stated: 
There is some justification at least in the talk that many of the pretending defenders of free enterprise are in fact defenders of privileges and advocates of government activity in their favour, rather than opponents of all privilege. In principle, the industrial protectionism and the Government supported cartels and the agricultural policies of conservative groups are not different from the proposals for a far reaching direction of economic life sponsored by the socialists. It is an illusion when the more conservative interventionists believe that they will be able to confine these government controls to the particular kinds of which they approve. In a democratic society, at any rate, once the principle is admitted that the Government undertakes responsibility for the status and position of particular groups, it is inevitable that this control will be extended to satisfy the aspirations and prejudices of the great masses. 
I think this is the most important sentence. It states: 
There is no hope for a return to a freer system, until the leaders of the movement against state control are prepared to first impose upon themselves that discipline of the competitive market, which they ask the masses to accept. 
While I do not suggest that those in government in Australia can, or even should attempt to, abruptly reverse long-established policies, we should at least, firstly, begin to examine those new measures which are proposed with a view to avoiding the mistakes of the past and, secondly, regularly review past measures to see whether they offend against the objectives inherent in the last sentence of the quote from Hayek. It is reassuring to note that the present Federal Government seems to want to make progress along those lines. 
However, the problem for the survival of the market economy arises when the voters permit or encourage the expansion of government power to such an extent that private business can gain short-term profits through intervention into the competitive market by government officials. If a businessman is offered the opportunity to escape constant pressures of market competition it is unlikely that he will withstand the temptation. This is understandable because no one pays the entrepreneur to be ideologically pure; nearly everyone expects him to make a profit and, in fact, governments rely on it for a great proportion of their own funding. By direct political intervention into internal markets, governments possess an extremely potent device for expanding political power. Governments are well placed to transform markets into bureaucratic, regulated and even centrally directed organisations. Bureaucracy then will replace entrepreneurship as the principal form of economic conduct. Already there are examples of individual enterprises which either benefit or expect to benefit from government programs and which have short-run financial incentive to promote intervention. On the other hand, those enterprises whose affairs are adversely affected find it difficult to mount their opposition. In other words, beneficiaries of government intervention are concentrated and are likely to be immediately profitable; potential losers are widely spread around the country and their opposition is quite often ineffective. 
It is generally fair to suggest that everyone engaged in private business, including owners, employees and investors alike, give a little more than they get back in terms of production and productivity. They certainly give energy, initiative, ingenuity and some enthusiasm, but there are commercial risks involved. For someone seeking to establish a business, which sells either a product or a service, and seeking to get into the market, capital is required for both productive and unproductive needs. Most people seeking to establish new businesses are prepared to take a risk but not many have enough savings of their own or even possessions which may be offered as security to borrow the money- the risk capital. 
Banks are not in the business of taking risks because they have responsibilities to their depositors and shareholders. Governments are not supposed to take that sort of risk either because they have a responsibility to the taxpayers. Potential businessmen are left with the problem of finding someone who will advance risk capital. Suppliers of risk capital may work on the basis that six out of 10 of their investments will not succeed. Therefore, they must be assured of sufficient return from the four possible successes to make up for the failures. Their returns are frequently a long time coming. 
Here we come to the crux of a problem which is typical of those confronting individual enterprise. Unless there are equity investors willing to back potential entrepreneurs, risk taking by individuals will become an extinct economic phenomenon. The misconception of profit has become so widespread and the supporters of government planning have been so influential that risk taking by individuals is a dying art. In many of the acts of government risk taking is discouraged. Without equity, the main source of creative wealth and, just as important, jobs is disappearing. Central planning and risk taking are poles apart. The more government plans the harder it is for individuals to make plans of their own. This is because investing entrepreneurs need to know the ground rules well in advance of committing funds and other resources. Meaningful long-term government planning is not achievable for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the normal life of a parliament which is limited to three years. 
In Australia today we require the impetus that only a confident business community can generate. Part of that confidence can be created by the Fraser Government continuing, and continuing to succeed in, the fight to reduce inflation and interest rates. In the longer term, if we are to meet the needs of the needy and less fortunate in the Australian community we need to free private industry from the constraints of big government and from government intervention. Our present high standard of living was achieved because the incentive to produce was allowed to exist and, to some extent, because it was encouraged to exist. 
Australia can do no better than to learn from the example of Western Australia in determining where its future lies. Economic development in my State blossomed in 1959 with the election of the Brand Government. Almost immediately the impact of .a motivated energetic government was felt on all fronts- agricultural, mineral, industrial and commercial- right across the State. During the 12-year term of the Brand Government, Western Australia 's population grew at an average rate of 3,000 people per month. This was the first wave of events which swept us in Western Australia to economic prosperity. A feature of this new era was the concept of total development. We also went beyond the point of making the most of passing opportunities and in aggressively pursuing them we created further opportunities. In the 12 years from 1959-1971 the net value of rural output nearly doubled, the net value of industrial production nearly trebled, while the value of mineral output was multiplied by 14. Mineral sales rose from $44m in 1959 to a staggering $646m in 1971. This period also saw the creation of a new farm every day for 10 years, many fine new civic buildings and 30 new townships. Western Australia emerged from medicant or claimant status to become a fully paid up member of the federation of Australian States. It more than paid its way then and has done so ever since. 
In Western Australia we are now confronted with a second wave of development which will see the development of energy-oriented programs, such as the North West Shelf gas project and the uranium mining project at Yeelirrie and elsewhere. Since the Court Government assumed office in 1974, 27,000 new jobs have been created in Western Australia compared with minus 82,000 for Australia as a whole. Our population has grown by 7.1 per cent' compared with a growth of 3.5 per cent for Australia. Unemployment in Western Australia has grown at only two-thirds the rate for Australia even though thousands of unemployed . from other States have been absorbed into Western Australia 's work force. Given a continuation of good government at State, and Federal levels, as is presently enjoyed, Western Australia will continue to force the pace in our sluggish national economy. ' 
Few would disagree that the issue of uranium mining, export and its possible enrichment has caused anxiety and some division within Australia. There are many reasons for this state of affairs and perhaps one is that the Labor Opposition at its 1 977 Perth Federal Conference decided upon a policy calling for a two-year moratorium on further uranium development- this, after having taken an enthusiastic development approach whilst in government. One of the most significant outcomes of the initial mood of enthusiasm was the decision by the Whitlam Government to make itself a partner in the development of the Ranger uranium site by signing the memorandum of understanding in October 1975. 
I hope to see an ultimate divestment of this government holding, preferably by selling the Australian taxpayers' shareholding to individual Australian investors. Of equal importance is the present impasse in negotiations with the Northern Land Council. Together, these two factors naturally enough have resulted in considerable publicity for the Ranger project. However, other significant deposits of this energy source exist within Australia. 1 have in mind the deposit at Yeleerie in Western Australia which is free of direct government participation and which is free of the concerns presently being encountered by members of the Northern Land Council and the Federal Government. Rather than be unnecessarily held up by these unique and localised problems, and in order that all parties concerned with the Ranger project have adequate time to consider their positions in a calmer atmosphere, it seems desirable to permit the development of projects free of such considerations and to allow them to go ahead to the development stage. Such a stance would serve to improve Australia's international reputation as a reliable source of commodities; it would provide the necessary time for all involved with the Ranger project to be clear minded about their interests and concerns; and, finally, it would assist in alleviating present unemployment problems. 

 Mr President, I come to the Senate only two short years after the Australian electorate called on Malcolm Fraser and his Government to restore economic sanity to this great nation. We have since retreated from the brink and the difficult task of rejuvenating our economy is well under way. Despite recent history, I remain unconcerned with the controversies surrounding the existence and acceptance of the constitutional powers of the Senate. I am more interested in how this chamber acts to have those powers maintained and even reinforced. My acceptance of the Senate as a States house and as a genuine house of review is complete. As has been pointed out by others on more than one occasion, we in the Senate provide one of the more important checks and balances within our constitutional democracy. Our constitutional obligations can be further strengthened, by developing the Senate 's other powers of scrutiny and review of federal affairs. 
The Senate remains an important cog in the machinery of parliamentary government and, as such, is one of the bulwarks of liberty and of private and public wealth and well-being in this country. While not being unreasonably resistant to change, we owe it to future generations to examine carefully proposals which may be said to alter our constitutional rights and objectives in the name of 'progress'. The full implications of any alteration to the status quo must be the substance rather than the shadow in any future deliberations. 

 Mr President, the time is right for reversing the trend towards centralisation of powers in Canberra. I detect that the electors of Australia, and especially those in Western Australia, are calling for devolution, deregulation and true federalism. And good reasons exist for such a stance. 
We have been through a period where the individual and combined efforts of so many have been squandered by the over-powerful and overorganised few. The aspirations and ideals of the majority can so easily be mischievously redirected towards unpublicised goals and ends. 
We are fortunate indeed that the course of federal government has already been re-set. Already the Fraser Government has embarked upon a new path- one which seeks to take account of the underlying causes of recent malaise. 
New federalism, by assigning to the federal and State parliaments certain defined rights and responsibilities, has set the stage for the long haul back. Programs that have been advocated over and over again since 1919, which call for the investiture of unlimited legislative powers in a single national chamber of delegates, have no acceptable relevance today. The effect of such a course would be only to exacerbate past errors. In the west of Australia, this course has not merely been rejected, it has been rejected twice- in 1975 and 1977. The doctrines and ideologies upon which such a program depends have never been accepted and, I submit, they never will be accepted. 
In case honourable senators present should be led to the conclusion that in making this reference I am failing to express a bi-partisan view, I refer briefly to an article published recently in the  West Australian  by  Mr F.  J. S. Wise.  Mr Wise  was the Labor Premier and Treasurer of Western Australia during the years 1945 to 1947.  His  public career included the holding of ten ministerial portfolios in State Labor governments. In his article,  Mr Wise  calls for a return of powers and responsibilities to State and local governments, on a scale that even at the present stage of my Government's new federalism policies does not envisage. I recommend the article to all honourable senators. It is not possible, or indeed advisable, on the occasion of one's first speech in this place to attempt to speak on all, or even most, of the matters which are of serious concern. It is certainly the custom in the Senate to avoid controversy and I have attempted to do that tonight. 
In concluding my remarks, I would like to pay a tribute to those who have contributed to my election as a senator for Western Australia. I acknowledge first of all that I would not be here without the support of the Liberal Party, including the staff and those on my pre-selection committee. Particular thanks are due to them and to members of Curtin division of my Party. I consider it a great privilege to represent my State as a senator and this is foremost in my mind when I express my gratitude to the electors of Western Australia who saw fit to give overwhelming support to their Liberal Senate team in general, and consequently to me. Perhaps most important of all, I acknowledge the support of my wife and children and thank them in advance for the personal sacrifices they will be called on to make due to. my absence from home on parliamentary business. I thank honourable senators for their indulgence. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware of problems encountered by citizens living in remote areas in obtaining regular mail deliveries? Does he agree that many people who live on station properties do not have the benefit of any deliveries at all? Do any provisions exist which allow for relief in cases of hardship arising amongst families which rely on the mails for educating outback children? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Is the National Public Works Conference responsible for establishing the standard conditions of contract which are employed by the Department of Construction when letting contracts. 
To what extent is participation by representatives of affected private industry sought and obtained by the National Public Works Conference. 
Are improvements being considered to the method of communication between representatives of head contractors and the Conference, to ensure that equitable conditions of contract are incorporated in future general conditions of contract; if so, what improvements. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the Industrial Relations Bureau conducted any investigations into alleged breaches of awards by employer groups, individual employers, unions or individual employees, which have led to interventions or prosecution of offenders by the Bureau; if so, what are the details of the offences. 
Has the Bureau declined to intervene on any occasion where a prima facie case of a breach of an Award existed; if so, why. 
I  present the following petition from 102 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the continued importance of the retail and construction industries to economic recovery, will the Minister inform the Senate of the latest indicators in relation to those two vital industries? 
I present the following petition from 68 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16  or  1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
retain this Ordinance: and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development advise the Senate of the estimated value of the advances in 1978-79 to State land commissions or councils? Will he also indicate how much is to be allocated to each recipient State or Territory? On what dates do the agreements with each State and Territory expire? Has the Government reached a decision in principle to review any or all of the agreements? If so, are any changes in terms contemplated? 
I  present the following petition from 403 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance ( No. 1 6 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Is it true that Professor Don Aitkin of the Macquarie University, Sydney, has been awarded $75,000 by the Australian Research Grants Committee for a study of Australian political behaviour? What criteria are used by the Research Grants Committee in awarding such sums? How many grants of sums of over $20,000 have been made by the Committee for research in the social sciences and to whom have they been awarded? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In the light of the Treasurer's commitment to ensuring that the supply of finance for housing is maintained, can the Minister inform the Senate of the present situation with respect to this matter which is of vital concern to the building industry and to the entire Australian community? 
-The Tasmanian Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited) Amendment Bill (No. 2) calls for a commitment of approximately $1.8m with an upper limit of $3. 8m, which is the potential commitment as a result of this measure. Added to previous schemes of support, which I understand total $4.4m, the grand total of support funds may well prove to be something like $8.2m, or almost certainly $6.2m, at 30 June 1980.  Senator Tate  made short reference to remarks passed in another place by my colleagues, the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter),  and seemed to express a point of view which suggested that they had been derogatory of Tasmania. My reading of the  Hansard  record of those proceedings on 7 November suggests to me that they were arguing the principle. Certainly there was nothing in anything I read or anything I heard while I was there which would support the contention of my colleague from Tasmania. 
Probably 1 alone among honourable senators worked in Queenstown for approximately one year of my life on projects which were concerned directly with the mining operation. They involved the renewal of the water line, building machinery sheds and general floatation installations. So I have a great understanding of and a great affection for the people of Tasmania, particularly for those of Queenstown and Gormanston. Having said that, perhaps it would be easier now for me, as I believe others in the lower House did recently; that is, to express my reservations about the principles involved in this measure, rather than in the actual measure itself, and to what it might lead. I place on record that if such a measure is proposed again I certainly will have to consider my attitude to it. At this stage I reserve my position along those lines. 
This measure is interventionist in the extreme. It is interventionist in a way which is not normal. It has the distinction of favouring the operations of one company- not an industry but one separate trading entity. That fact, coupled with matters that  Senator Tate  raised, on which I also would like to comment, leave an unpleasant taste in one's mouth. The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited produces copper and, with its by-products of gold and silver, it competes with producers of those commodities who are operating in other areas of Australia. By means of this Bill, the Mount Lyell company will enjoy the use of funds, interest free, which facility is not extended to those companies with which it is in competition. This gives an unfair trading advantage to the Mount Lyell company. Should we not be considering also compensating those miners who operate in that field and who have to compete with the Mount Lyell company? Should we not give them the same advantage? Of course, we cannot do that because the funds do not extend that far. 

 Senator Tate mentioned that the Mount Lyell company managed to separate the operations of Renison Ltd, a profitable tin mine, and I understand also Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd from the operation involving Mount Lyell. I understand that both those companies are extremely profitable operations. Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd has other operators in its stable. It has heavy investments in Goldsworthy Mining Ltd in Western Australia. I guess that, given the situation in which that company finds itself, in the not too distant future it could well be able to advance with some justification a similar case. Are we going to be in a position to help Goldsworthy Mining if it makes an approach, as has been speculated upon on different occasions? Are we going to be able to help the Greenvale nickel mining project, which would involve providing massive support? 
Protectionism, as I have always understood it, was allowed to exist and to some extent was encouraged to exist because it served the purpose of making jobs and raising revenue. The proposal under discussion is simply an exercise in maintaining jobs and, in the course of so doing, depleting revenue. It has some of the features of a giant Regional Employment Development scheme and some of the arguments against that scheme could well be applied here. I urge honourable senators who may be interested in the subject to read the speech made in another place by the honourable member for Moore and to read the questions he raised. I repeat, they are recorded in the House of Representatives  Hansard  dated 7 November. 
I wonder whether we are approaching this matter from the right angle. I think it has been established that there is a high percentage of home ownership among the people in Queenstown and, presumably, in Gormanston. Any relocation which might be required will involve these people in costs which are not normally associated with the closing of a mining town. I wonder whether we should not really be looking at spending money on retraining, relocation and rehousing the people. If it is not contemplated to do these things all at once, perhaps we should be planning now to do them because it is by no means sure that, even with the concessions offered by this legislation, the Mount Lyell mine will continue after 1980. Despite what my colleague,  Senator Archer,  might have said or might have thought, I understand that it is by no means certain that copper prices will reach heights which will enable a continuation of the operations. 
I think that the Bill is supportable only for its humanitarian considerations and for the benefit it will provide to the people of Queenstown and Gormanston. Perhaps in addition to spending in the areas of retraining, relocation and rehousing, we should be examining ways and means by which we can allow this company to find its own level of trading and, if it is unable to call on its shareholders, to suffer the normal effects which the market applies. The proposition can be justified on humanitarian grounds, although, I remain concerned that we may be putting off the day when we have to come to grips with the long term reality. I feel that we should be preparing for that day. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 19 September, 1978: 
1 ) What was the value of work carried out by the Department's day labour force during 1976-77 and 1977-78. 
Which projects carried out by the day labour force during 1976-77 and 1977-78 were undertaken in the following categories: (a) urgent works resulting from emergencies such as floods, fires, etc; (b) works in remote areas; (c) works which did not attract reasonable tenders; (d) operational activities; (e) parts of works which were required to be completed for such reasons as default of contractor; and (f) works which might have been subject to unscheduled interruptions for various reasons. 
) What was the value of each project. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I acknowledge the recently expressed interest of  Senator Jessop  in this matter. My question relates to solar appliances and acknowledges the Commonwealth Government's support for the development of solar energy as an alternative source of energy. Is the Minister aware that Australian suppliers of solar appliances to the market in the United States of America obtain tax incentives in that country aimed at proliferating the use of energy conserving appliances? In the absence of similar incentives in Australia, will the Government give early consideration to removing the sales tax on solar appliances used, firstly, for pool heating, which currently attract a 15 per cent sales tax; secondly, for industrial uses, which currently attract a 15 per cent tax; thirdly, for household heating, which currently attract a 2.5 per cent tax; and fourthly, for replacement components, which currently attract a 15 per cent tax? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
What objective criteria constitute and determine the national interest referred to in the ministerial statement in the House of Representatives on 24 October 1978 entitled  Future Export Policy- Bulk Raw Materials '. 
Will such national interest override other interests which the criteria may intentionally or otherwise exclude. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Is the Minister aware of problems encountered by citizens living in remote areas in obtaining regular mail deliveries? Does he agree that many people who live on station properties do not have the benefit of any deliveries at all? Do any provisions exist which allow for relief in cases of hardship arising amongst families which rely on the mails for educating outback children? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Government-funded inquiries have in the past made recommendations and findings which have often called for the creation of boards, commissions or other statutory authorities. Frequently the inquirers end up as appointees to the statutory bodies which are virtually children of their own creation. Will earnest consideration be given to excluding those who sit on boards of inquiry from positions on statutory authorities created as a result of their deliberations? Will the Government ensure that those who make recommendations are not seen to subsequently benefit from them? 
The motion before the Senate is about the level of unemployment in Australia. I shall address myself to that problem. Australia has a record population and a record work force with wage levels which are affecting the employment prospects of many Australians including juveniles, particularly female juveniles. As  Senator Walters  quite properly pointed out earlier, this is due to some large measure to the entry into the work force of keen, reliable women. I have no quarrel with their participation in the work force. By the middle of this year we can expect 9 out of 10 of last year's school leavers to be asborbed into the work force, relying on the previous year's experience. We have a record level of unemployment in a time of record turbulence in industrial relations and wage demands which do not take into account increases in productivity. 
Let us deal with some of the more positive aspects. A revival of the economy will have a beneficial effect on the number of people employed and hopefully will reduce the number of people unemployed. Recently, the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd said about its business survey that the Australian economy is facing its most promising outlook since the recession began in mid- 1974. In an article in today's  Australian  there are comments about and extracts from a survey of the Bank of New South Wales. The article states: 
The bank warns that the rate of wage increases has been slower to fall than the rate of price increases and that the granting of a full indexation increase in December 'places at risk the chances of achieving greater stability of costs in the year ahead'. 
On unemployment the Bank of New South Wales says 'a rapid transformation of the labour market is unlikely to occur in parallel with increased economic activity early in the year'. 
In conclusion, the article states: 
Nevertheless, a more streamlined and efficient industrial sector is an essential pre-condition for increased job opportunities in the longer term. 
Let us deal with some of the positive aspects of the employment situation in this country. I believe that they were also touched on by  Senator Walters.  The fact is that there are 152,700 more people in the work force in Australia than there were when the Labor Government lost office in 1975. This is not a feature that is reported by our friends in the media and that is to be regretted. It is understandable in the context that bad news seems to be of more public interest than good news. But the facts are there for everyone to see. Official statistics show that civilian employment in Australia reached a record high of 6,367,000 in December of last year. It is about time that the facts of the employment situation in Australia were recognised, particularly as so many people, both inside and outside this Parliament, are now trying to play politics with the question of unemployment. 
Over the past three years the number of people coming into the work force has gone up by 288,000 to a record level. That is a result of both an increase in the population and the fact that many wives have decided that they want to go back to work. Up to two-thirds of this record Australian population are now either working or wanting to work. The result is that many more jobs are needed per head of population than in the past to satisfy the demand for jobs. Despite recent economic difficulties, despite the world oil price disruption, despite increasing automation and despite demands for levels of wages that are not commensurate with increases in productivity, it is remarkable that more than half of the extra demand for work has been satisfied by the provision of some 152,700 jobs over the past three years. Contrast that with the fall in the number of jobs available under the previous Government. In one year alone high inflation and wage rises priced thousands of workers out of their jobs. In 1974 and 1975 the rate of unemployment in Australia almost trebled. The present Government has chopped down that rate to an average increase of about 1 1 per cent per annum as its economic policies have started to bite. The big question is not whether government policies are working and not whether they should be reversed but whether even further encouragement should be given to the private sector to expand faster and employ more people. I contrast that opinion with the policy of the Labor Government and its attempts to overcome problems with short term palliatives, such as the Regional Employment Development scheme. The question industry is asking and will continue to ask unless we are clear and unequivocal is: Will the continuation of a comparatively high level of unemployment induce the Government to soften its resolve against inflation, to defer plans for freer trade or to attempt quick-fix employment solutions that will add confusion rather than jobs? Despite the high level of unemployment as it is currently measured, there exist widespread shortages for skilled labour, semi-skilled personnel and manual operatives generally. It is in that area that the Government can make and is making a great contribution to the employment prospects of Australians of all ages. The Government's policy of steady economic recovery is working, with the result that more and more jobs are being and will continue to be created. There is no doubt that the unemployment situation is a matter for serious concern. Equally, there is no doubt that the Government has faced the issues involved. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer. Current taxation provisions allow a minimum $2 deduction from assessable income for donations to recognised charitable institutions. I understand that this minimum was set in 1936. Will the Treasurer give consideration to increasing the minimum deduction allowable to $50, thereby preserving the intentions behind the measure adopted 43 years ago? Will the Minister at the same time grant tax deductible status to approved institutions active in the areas of arts, amateur sport and overseas aid? 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that the Federal Government is effectively providing a large proportion of the income of every tertiary student union in Australia, including the Australian Union of Students, through the payment of the incidentals allowance under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be suitably brief but I do hope that I will get the fullest possible answer from him. Were any Australian aid projects in the Democratic Republic of Vietnam damaged or destroyed by the invading, occupying or withdrawing armed forces of the Chinese People 's Liberation Army? 
This evening I wish to raise a matter that concerns the welfare of three tradesmen who live and work in Perth. They are plumbers who appear to be at the very least the victims of the bureaucracy of their union. It involves the blatant victimisation by a union of three of its members. I will omit the names of the individuals involved as mentioning them will add little to the events I will attempt to describe. Another reason is that I do not wish to take advantage of parliamentary privilege unnecessarily if, indeed, that need be a consideration. The tradesmen concerned were and as far as I know still are employed by a plumbing contractor engaged in construction work in Western Australia. The events and circumstances I will describe arise out of a campaign conducted by the Western Australian branch of the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union of Australia to obtain Federal award coverage. The campaign took place late last year. A series of disputes was organised by the union in pursuit of its objective and the matter was eventually referred to and resolved by Commissioner Brown in proceedings before him. 
Those proceedings comprised a series of conferences and formal hearings and a record of the latter was kept. Resolution of the dispute led to the granting of federal coverage. Agreement was reached between the parties to the dispute that there would be no victimisation of any persons involved in the campaign. Subsequent to the issue of the award, three employees of the plumbing contractor mentioned earlier were charged by the union with a breach of its rulesrule 13 headed 'Offences and Charges'. I seek leave to incorporate rule 1 3 in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction confirm the intention of the Government to exclude building industry organisations from deliberations on uniform building regulations and a proposed accreditation system? Does he agree that in the past the building industry has always participated in the development of building regulations on a State or Territory basis? Will he acknowledge that the building industry has established a national appraisal system for innovations within industry which would be invaluable in any deliberations aimed at amending or influencing building regulations? 
-I thank the Senate. On 6 February 1979 the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union wrote to the three employees who were alleged to have been in breach. The union attached to the letter a copy of the rule and a copy of the signed charge dated 6 November 1978. The union letter set out the charge in the following terms: 
The charge states that you did work whilst members of the union were in dispute in support of the union's campaign for a new plumbers Federal award. 
I ask the Senate to note that the charge is that the men worked while the union was in dispute. Honourable senators will be aware that disputes can take many forms and that in the majority of cases they do not involve stoppage of work. The union 's letters of 6 February to the three men involved stated that at a hearing set down to commence at 7.30 p.m. on 2 1 February 1 979 at Perth Trades Hall all parties would be heard and an opportunity given to those charged to put their cases. The union committee of management would then decide on their guilt or otherwise. The copy of the charge which I have mentioned, dated 6 November 1978, had been signed by four individuals, but the addresses of those laying the charge were not given. 
The union hearing took place as indicated and two of the persons charged attended. After those who had laid the charge and the two alleged offenders in attendance were heard, the union committee of management undertook to communicate its findings to the accused in writing in due course. The union conveyed its decision in a letter dated 23 February 1979. In that letter the accused were described as defendants. By implication this attributed a legality to the proceedings which would suggest things such as legal representation and the taking and giving of sworn evidence, et cetera. So far as I am aware, that did not happen. This wording has overtones of intimidation or at least bluff, which I find particularly offensive. Furthermore, the union imposed a fine of $200 each, as well as a threat that similar future action could lead to more severe penalties. I will read the decision and omit mentioning the names. 
-I understand that a scab is a dry encrustation which forms over a sore as part of the healing process. If this is part of the healing process I will be very pleased indeed. The decision reads: 
Having heard all the submissions by all of the parties at the hearing and having given careful consideration of the facts of the dispute with a clear indication from . . . and . . . that they knowingly worked and broke picket lines against the decision of the Union and having pleaded guilty to all those charges, the Committee of Management of the Union finds . . .', ' . . .' and  . . .' guilty of refusing to cany out decisions of the West Australian Branch of the Union and imposes therefore a fine of two hundred dollars ($200) against each of the three named members under the provisions of Rule 1 3 of the Union Rules. Further that they be severely reprimanded for their actions and warned that any future similar action could lead to more severe penalties. 
Defendants are reminded of their rights of appeal to a General Meeting of the Branch, to the Federal Executive of the Union or to the Council of the Union. Such appeal must be lodged within twenty-eight (28) days of receipt of this decision. 
One of the accused had this to say, as best he was able to express it, concerning the circumstances prevailing when the alleged breach of union rules took place before the kangaroo court hearings to which I have referred: 
The charge is that I worked during a dispute in which the Union was involved, a dispute that had been applied by the Executive of the Plumbers' Union to support a new Plumbers ' Award in Western Australia. 
It is hard to answer this claim because so many other people worked during the dispute. I did nothing more than probably a 100 or so members of this Union did during that period. The only trouble was that the work that I was on was selected by the Union to be the point where its campaign would be made felt. 
I know people who worked on the Marmion Shopping Centre and on all the other city jobs which were under construction at the same time. It was a joke around the members that the Union's black bans were being worked through and we were under no illusion that the work was in fact going on. 
There were cases like the Art Gallery and Fremantle Hospital as well as many others where bans were worked through and I would be very surprised if the Union Officials did not know that that was going on. 
I think we are being made to carry the blame for a campaign that the Union conducted which did not work and we are being singled out when many other people should be made to carry the responsibility for what went on. 
It was in the newspaper that the Commissioner involved in the exercise said that no one was to be disadvantaged or victimised by anyone and that was the reason he made the awards he made, the reason he forced employers and the Unions to give in from where the positions they are in. I don't believe that I should be victimised because of other things I do not understand. This Commissioner said and it was in the paper that he would protect everyone from victimisation and I can't understand why the Union would carry on with its prosecution when the Commissioner stated that it wasn't on. I have looked at the letters which have been sent to me and I don't understand why these four fellows have been able to lay a charge against me in the way set out in that letter. I mean it looks like they have all got together to do it. If they have done so they are trying to get me thrown out of the Union and they have acted to do that. I don't think they would know those rules and be able to write that language in the letter and it looks like it has been written by an expert and I don 't see how it is a real complaint if that is so. 
I think the complaint is to be set out as if they are real and doesn't really tell me when I worked or whatever. I have come here and I don't know what I am supposed to say particularly when a 100 other fellows are in the same situation. Why have they singled me out? Why have these four people done this? What difference has it made to them? 
I think that the charge should not go ahead, I think that it would damage this Union. I shouldn't be barred from working in this industry because it is my livelihood and if you do expel me you have to expel everybody else who worked during that time. 
The reason I worked was that I did not know when the bans were off or on. I was confused. Different Union officials said different things at different times and moved the bans. How could I know that I was not supposed to be working when the bans kept shifting. When the Union Secretary said there was bans on everything yet the work was continuing around the place and everyone knew so how can you single me out? 
Criticisms of the grammar may be valid but not of the case and question so simply put. Of course, it did not impress the union hierarchy. The man was confused, and it is reasonable to assume that the other two were confused also. In fact, all but two of his fellow unionists in Perth were confused to the extent that they continued to work, bans or no bans. I base that comment on the fact that only three were charged by the union. 
Let me touch briefly on broader issues. I pose the question: Is loyalty to an employer a crime that warrants a hefty fine or other penalty? Is it reasonable to impose such a disincentive on workers? Is a confused union executive able to excuse that union's own inadequacies by making scapegoats out of decent Australian workers? If the answer to any of those questions is yes, will economic recovery, full employment and selfrespect ever be possible in this country? Presumably, if the victims of this abominable exercise elect not to appeal and do not pay their fines, further action by the union is contemplated. Will the unions sue for recovery of the debt? Will the union expel them. 
The noble genesis of the union movement is no longer in evidence. The ideal of the principle and practice of voluntary freedom of association no longer exists. Compulsory unionism is with us in the form of blatant compulsion or is camouflaged under the cloak of preference at the point of employment, or by intimidation of waiverers or by rendering ineffective conscientious or other objection by an obligation on claimants to show cause why they should be allowed the privilege of freedom of voluntary association. Personal freedoms have become negotiable in industrial relations matters and the case that I have outlined has confirmed that they do not - 
No  Senator shall  read his speech. 
I believe that this is not the first offence of  Senator Rocher  with regard to his reading his speeches. 
-May I speak to the point of order,  Mr President? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. In the week before last the Minister replied in general terms to a question on the subject of an international common fund that is to be created as a result of deliberations by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. As one of at least ten of the commodities initially involved is copper, can he say whether Australian producers of copper support the concept? Will an international copper selling cartel be created? Can the Minister add any more information to that provided in response to the earlier question? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of deposits insurance schemes in North America which have effectively avoided panic runs on the funds of financial institutions similar to permanent building societies in Australia? Will the Goverment give consideration to encouraging the building society movement to establish such a scheme in Australia? 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it a fact that the Federal Court of Australia has an increasing significance for litigants, particularly because it has original jurisdiction in many proceedings which may be taken under the Trade Practices Act? Does the Federal Court of Australia have a judge resident or readily available in Western Australia? If not, does it follow that Western Australians seeking to pursue their legal rights must await the availability of a judge who has to travel from one of the eastern States? In urgent matters will Western Australian litigants have to bear additional costs due to the need to brief eastern State solicitors, through their local solicitors, as well as incur extra costs in attending proceedings in another State? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) What is the total amount borrowed from the Commonwealth by: (a) the New South Wales Land Commission; (b) the South Australian Land Commission; (c) the Victorian Government on behalf of the Victorian Urban Land Council: and (d ) the Western Australian Government on behalf of the Western Australian Urban Lands Council. 
) What is the rate of interest charged in each case. 
Over what period is: (a) interest on borrowings; and ( b ) principal, repayable to the Commonwealth in each case. 
Have any payments of principal or interest been made by any of the borrowers and received by the Commonwealth to date: if so, how much has been paid by each borrower. 
How much accrued interest has been allowed to accumulate and remain unpaid by each borrower. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of speculative estimates of the final cost of constructing the Qantas Airways Ltd stage 1 project in Sydney, which range from $120m to $170m? Assuming that precise figures are not at his disposal today, will he inform the Senate of the actual estimated cost at an early date? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that the Tertiary Education Commission's report on nongovernment business colleges recommends, among other things, that each privately run college should submit a statutory declaration at the end of each quarter setting out enrolments in approved courses? Is this recommendation to be adopted? If so, will Australian universities and institutes of advanced education also be required to submit statutory declarations attesting to their enrolments? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
Does the Federal Government insist on student participation within student bodies involved in socio-political activities and compulsory association by students with bodies which are allegedly constituted for sporting, recreational, and other activities in tertiary institutions. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
Has the Minister, at any stage, informed State Governments that any attempt to waive compulsory contributions from all tertiary students as a condition of enrolment would, in the view of the Federal Government, be contrary to the agreement entered into during 1973 which has resulted in the present public funding arrangements for tertiary education. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer read Press reports indicating a record level of housing loans approved by permanent building societies during March? Do the March figures indicate a continuing and healthy economic trend? Do present levels of activity in this area make a nonsense of calls made earlier this financial year for massive injections of taxpayers' funds to supplement those available in the market place? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. To avoid duplication of effort and waste of resources, will the Government react favourably to a call by the Western Australian Government that power to act in consumer affairs matters be delineated by agreement with the States? Does the Minister agree that a formal division of responsibilities is desirable? 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems: 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change arc a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Did the Minister for Trade and Resources announce on 15 December 1978 that export controls on a wide range of minerals would be removed? Was removal of controls to be contingent upon prior consultations with the States and industry? Will the Minister advise the Senate when consultations are likely to be concluded? Is it intended that each of the minerals to be removed from export control will be dealt with separately or will finalisation of the proposal be delayed pending resolution of outstanding matters regarding all minerals which were the subject of the Minister's announcement? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is he aware of the reported call by the Opposition transport spokesman for the Government to give immediate notice of its intention to terminate the two-airline agreement, such termination to become effective in 1 984? As there is at least some bipartisan support for this proposal, albeit for different reasons, will the suggestion be adopted? If the agreement is to be ended, will the Government also give consideration to deregulating the airline industry, thus enabling competition and normal market forces to determine an air fare structure which will benefit the travelling public in Australia? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation Commission for the Study of Communication Problems is currently considering proposals for licensing journalists and imposing penalties for incorrect reporting? Has it been brought to the attention of the Government that the proposal seeks the creation of a journalistic code of ethics and an international Press council, as well as licensing and penalties for coverage deemed inappropriate or insufficient? Will the Minister tell the Senate the Government's attitude to this initiative, with particular reference to the possible effects on maintenance and protection of freedom of the Press in the Western democracies. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of reports that voltage fluctuations in electricity supplies, especially surges and spikes, allegedly cause unpredictable difficulties in the functioning of computers? Can he say whether there have been any reports of permanent loss of memory bank data or other computer malfunctions due to inconsistent power supplies? Are power supplies at Commonwealth Government computer installations adequately protected? Is protection desirable and technically possible? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
Will the Common Fund, which is expected to be created by an imminent meeting in Manila of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, establish an international copper selling cartel: if so, will Australian copper producers be consulted on the concept and their possible participation in the Common Fund. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of the favourable reaction of the Real Estate Institute of Australia to modifications announced last week to the home savings grants scheme? Will the amended measure enhance the Government's primary objective of helping those first home buyers who are in genuine need for such assistance? 
I wish to raise several matters for the attention of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  The first is a matter which came to my attention during the hearing of Estimates Committee D when an officer was questioned concerning the appropriation for 'Operational expenses' for the Australian Capital Territory Fire Brigade. It concerns long service leave and provision for sick leave and is not exclusive to the Australian Capital Territory Fire Brigade. It seems that long service leave is not provided for adequately in the original Estimates because requests for long service leave are made during the year but they cannot readily be identified when the Budget is put together. The name of the officer concerned is irrelevant; I merely indicate what he said. On further questioning he instanced his situation as an example and indicated that he had accrued long service leave for 22 years service. That exemplified the problem. 
It occurs to me that it is time budgeting was able to take into account the reasonable estimation of expenditure on long service and annual leave. This may be difficult because of the point I now propose to make. In doing so, I question the wisdom of allowing the accumulation of long service leave and annual leave on two grounds: Firstly, surely a leave entitlement exists primarily to permit the recipient to take a break from his job, to enjoy recreation leave or to follow any other pursuit that he desires. I also mention the matter in this context tonight because it creates budgetary problems. I think it will be readily apparent that if many employees were allowed to accrue leave in this way and if their entitlements could not be identified at the beginning of the financial year we could have this constant problem of inaccurate budget estimations at the beginning of the financial year forever and a day. I put it to the Minister that on two grounds at least we should take some note of this practice and its effect on budgeting and on the orderly organisation of funds. 
I want to refer briefly to division 220.1.02 in the esimates of the Department of Housing and Construction. It relates to overtime and deals specifically with overtime payable to foremen. During the hearings of Senate Estimates Committee D, it was pointed out to me that some foremen were to be transferred from the day labour force to staff status. I emphasise that I am speaking about the overtime section of their remuneration. Because additional money was not required for salaries, specific mention was not made of the fact that salaries also would be paid under staff arrangements rather than day labour arrangements. I assume that, in fact, foremen salaries in this context will be paid as part of the appropriation for staff salaries. 
It  occurs to  me that by the stroke of a publicservant's pen, costs which were previously recoverable from authorities or departments which are clients of the Department of Housing and Construction are not now recoverable by that Department. In other words, having made this transfer of status, the Department of Housing and Construction now pays. It also means that the costs- (  Quorum formed).  The situation I have described is unique by any standards, even those imposed on Commonwealth Government departments. Direct supervision of people such as foremen is part of a cost of a building contract. Jobs undertaken by private contractors include similar costs. I draw this matter to the attention of the Minister for Social Security who is at the table. I ask that she look into it and take it up with the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom ) in another place. 
I next want to deal briefly with division 83 1 .  1 .  1 3 which concerns expenditure by the Department of Housing and Construction on behalf of the Department of Health. This involved an extra appropriation for a claim for additional costs made by a contractor-- 
-Yes. It is division 831.1.13. 
Thank you. I will reserve my comments for later on. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) What amounts were expended by the Federal Government in each year from 1974 to 1978 under the classification  Incidental Allowance ' which is paid to tertiary students who qualify for the Living Allowance under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme (TEAS). 
What amount has been set aside to meet these outlays for the year 1978-79. 
What are the amounts that each Australian University in Australia charges for student association fees. 
How many students who qualified for the TEAS Living Allowance attended each Australian University in each year from 1974 to 1978. 
How many full-time students attended each Australian University in each year from 1 974 to 1 978. 
Does the Federal Government pay the amount being referred to as the amenities and services fee for Commonwealth Public Servants who attend a University to undertake part-time or full-time courses. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) Who are the parties to the agreement made in 1 973 to which the Minister referred in answer to a question without notice in the Senate on the subject of student unions (see  Hansard,2  March 1979, page 803). 
What are the terms of that agreement. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment in his capacity as that Minister and as Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Has the draft uniform code for earthquake resistant buildings, prepared by the Standards Association of Australia, been studied by State authorities? When will the final version of the code be published? Will it be adopted by Commonwealth construction authorities in all areas of Australia, or will its provisions be appropriate only for identified risk areas? 
At the outset, it is probably worth while mentioning that it is central to my Government's co-operative federalism policy that to have power is not necessarily to exercise it  (Quorum formed).  That should be understood. It represents a fundamental difference to the attitude of the Opposition. The Government sees its policy as being central to the issue of the rights and liberties of citizens of Australia. It sees it as a means by which within the national framework different parts of the Commonwealth can to a significant extent fashion for themselves the kind of laws and administration under which they wish to live. I invite the Senate to contrast this with the attitudes and long standing policies of the Australian Labor Party which go back to 1920 and which have not been substantially altered from the unificationist stance it took at that time. There are certainly variations on the theme, but there has been no significant change. Probably, this can be best exampled by a statement by  Mr Whitlam  in which he said: 
Much can be achieved by Labor members of the Stale Parliaments in effectuating Labor's aims of more effective powers for the national parliament and for local government. Their role is to bring about their own dissolution. 
I wonder what significance that might have for the South Australian elections. I wonder if our friends opposite can sell that concept to  Mr Corcoran. Senator Wriedt  has suggested that perhaps there should be some statute of limitations on how far back honourable senators can consider the statements of his predecessors. Of course,  Mr Hayden,  is in the same mould. He served both as a Minister in the Government and as a shadow Minister under  Mr Whitlam.  By his subsequent failure to retract from those important issues on which  Mr Whitlam  postulated, he accepts them. I had intended to deal with a number of matters but in view of the failure of the Opposition to present much of a case I will cut my speech a little short. Centralism became popular in the late 1960s after a number of events involving the rights of State governments to impose personal income tax in the late 1 960s. 
It was not until the Whitlam years that the noose of centralism was drawn tight. Of course, they sought to establish overriding Federal Government power, centralised and entrenched in a bureaucracy in Canberra. 
As my friend says, they very nearly succeeded. It was against this background- which I will not go into in view of the time- that Prime Minister Fraser appealed to the electorate with a policy of new federalism. It was a total policy platform which highlighted new, co-operative federalism. Of course, in 1975 this was wholeheartedly embraced in record breaking proportions by the Australian electorate. To put the cap on it, after two years in government and after putting into effect its new federalism promises the electorate once again saw fit to re-elect the Fraser Government with an overwhelming majority. In those terms, can it be said that it has been a failure? Of course, it cannot. 

 Senator Carrick made all the points that need to be made in view of the rather pointless argument advanced by the Opposition. Constitutional federation, enhanced and reinforced by my Government's new federalism policy, is not just a means of enabling orderly administration. It is a human philosophy of individual expression and enterprise transposed into the political reality of government- governent for and by people. It is more than that. It is all that stands between the people of Australia and those who, for not unfathomable reasons, would impose a system of government over people and not for and by people. So, both yesterday and already at Question Time this morning, the Senate has had a feast of red herrings in this discussion. I propose hopefully to put an end to the glut for this week. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What are the implications for future Australian funding of the United Nations following reports that it has excess cash of $1.4 billion and that the United Nations and its affiliates have had yearly surpluses of up to $350m? Is the Government aware that the 
United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund is reported to have accumulated reserves of between $ 1 00m and $ 1 40m? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. How many Australian citizens are affected by a law of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics which became effective on 1 July and which stipulates that anyone with two parents born in countries that now comprise the USSR will be deemed to be Soviet citizens? Has the Minister any information on how many Australian children become Soviet citizens under a provision of the new law? Does the Soviet law have special implications for Australian citizens who come under its provisions and who may wish to visit the Soviet Union? If so, what advice is being given by Australian authorities to those who could be affected? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs able to confirm reports that guerrillas infiltrating Zimbabwe have been issued with medical kits provided by the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund? Did last year's UNICEF report disclose that it had provided aid to the Patriotic Front, the South West African People's Organisation, the Pan-Africanist Congress and the African National Congress? If so, what form did that aid take? What is the Government's attitude to assistance and funding of alleged African guerrilla and terrorist organisations by the United Nations or its affiliates? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of a recent refusal by Soviet authorities to grant travel visas to a party of Australians of Latvian origin who wished to visit Riga, the Latvian capital, during a planned visit to the Soviet Union for the Olympic Games? Have Union of Soviet Socialist Republics authorities advised the Commonwealth Government on that country's policy regarding group travel by former nationals to Latvia and other acquired Soviet territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Because of the excellent response by citizens of mainland China to an invitation issued by Radio Australia, will special help be given to Radio Australia staff in Peking to process requests for free program guides? Can the Minister confirm reports that in this connection 1 6,000 letters have been received, and that they continue to be delivered at the rate of 5,000 a day? Has our embassy in Peking asked the station to stop broadcasting the postbox number until the present influx can be cleared? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations reported accurately as having given legal and technical- rather than political- considerations as reasons for supporting the United Nations Credentials Committee 's recommendations in favour of continuing recognition of the Pol Pot regime in Kampuchea? Are legal and technical reasons consistently applied when deciding Australian recognition of other regimes which come to power by other than democratic process? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is the Government committed to the retention of Guildford Airport, in Perth, to service major internal and overseas air traffic in the foreseeable future? Is the Minister able to confirm reports that during this financial year three additional international airlines intend to operate services calling at Perth? What plans exist for upgrading and improving terminal facilities at Perth Airport? Does planning envisage the relocation of Department of Transport personnel to other office accommodation in order to facilitate maximum usage of existing space at Perth Airport for the travelling public? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost of loose furniture for the High Court building. 
What are the estimated costs of: (a) a Secretary's desk; and (b) a typist's desk. 
What are the estimated costs of: (a) loose furniture; and (b) soft furnishings, for the offices of the Chief Justice and each other High Court Judge. 
What are the estimated costs of fixtures and fittings in the offices of the Chief Justice and each other High Court Judge. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) Does the Department of Social Security own or control houses in Western Australia; if so, how many. 
Are houses rented to employees or others; if so, what rentals are payable. 
3 ) What is the capital value of each house. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost of repairs to the facade of the Albermarle and Alexander Buildings in Phillip, Australian Capital Territory. 
What defects warrant remedial action and repairs, and what is the cause of the defects. 
How are repairs and remedial action being effected and by whom. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What avenues are available to Australia to check whether approximately $1 billion paid in 1976-77 to the South West African People's Organisation by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and other United Nations affiliates was used for humanitarian or for revolutionary purposes? Are recent reports published in France accurate in their claims that armaments being delivered via Angola for use by SWAPO, are paid for by the UN, UNESCO or some other UN affiliate? Can it be verified that about $10m paid to SWAPO was used as intended to ease the plight of a few thousand Ovambo refugees who reportedly still live as miserably as if they had received nothing at all? 
The measure entitled the State Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill 1979 sets out to amend the State Grants (Roads) Act 1977. The amendment will enable funds to be spent by the States on roads in specific categories. Supplementary money from the States will be used in some cases. I think that there are eight categories. Indeed,  Senator Hamer  must think so also, although the information in the Parliamentary Library Bills Digests indicates that there may be ten. However, I will stick with the eight that I have been able to identify. The first two categories relate to the construction and. maintenance of national highways. In this area the Commonwealth has a role to play in directing and overseeing expenditure. The same may be said for the national commerce roads, although the Commonwealth's role should be limited, in my opinion, to funding specific major construction. Like  Senator Hamer,  I wish to express concern and reservations about the measure of control exercisable by the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  by virtue of the provisions in the Act and in this amendment. 
Before developing that point, I would like to deal with some aspects of road funding concerning Western Australia. In this area there is a drift which is both significant and serious. Western Australia's share of taxpayers' funds committed by the Commonwealth to expenditure on roads has decreased from 1 7.96 per cent of total expenditure on roads in 1968-69 to only 12.67 per cent in 1978-79. Although total grants were increased by 19.8 per cent in the period July 1975 to June 1979, grants to Western Australia rose by only 10.46 per cent. Although I have no real argument against restraining growth in overall expenditure of taxpayers' funds on roads, or for most other purposes, my State has suffered cuts which are not in keeping with or consistent with the general trend. Whilst nearly 18 per cent of total funding in the financial year ended 30 June 1969 could not be reasonably maintained, I seriously question the appropriateness of the current level of funding for Western Australia. 
To add fuel to the fire of my concern, the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'An Assessment of the Australian Road System 1979' recommends further savage reductions, to less than nine per cent of total road funds for Western Australia in the future. From my reading of that BTE report- I emphasise my reading because I defy any layman completely to absorb its contents- it seems that its recommendations are heavily oriented to road user benefits. I submit to the Senate that that is a very narrow approach. For example, it ignores the contribution made by Western Australia to the nation's economy and the vital role of a viable road system in maintaining and improving that contribution. There is compelling economic argument for increasing funding for roads in the Kimberleys and in the Pilbara region to facilitate oil exploration and exploitation of the North West Shelf gas reserves and other resources. I emphasise that point by mentioning that with only 8.4 per cent of the nation's population Western Australia has produced 22 per cent of the total value of Australia's exports in the year 1976-77. Per capita export earnings were twoandahalf times the national average. 
Social factors are also involved in providing good roads in certain isolated areas in Western Australia, and perhaps elsewhere. Just as Kalgoorlie has good access by road to the south and west coasts, so should the people in the townships of Paraburdoo, Newman and Tom Price have easy access to the nearest coastal centres. Ideally, recreational considerations warrant overland access to the south-west from all towns of the Pilbara and Kimberley regions. I believe that currently there is a demonstrable need to upgrade the intra-Pilbara road system. If we are to maintain harmonious communities in the northwest, which ensure the economic contribution to which I have referred, road usage alone should not determine the level of funding for roads. 
Most importantly, I believe that the only authority capable of determining priorities for road construction, maintenance and upgradingperhaps with a couple of exceptions- is the State Government. In the case of Western Australia, the Main Roads Commission has all the resources at its command to enable it expertly to advise the State Government. Under the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 the Western Australia Government is obliged to convince the Federal Government that its determinations and preferences should attract an allocation of taxpayers ' funds. It must do so under eight separate headings, the first three of which I have mentioned, namely, construction and maintenance of national highways and construction of national commerce roads. The last five- construction of rural arterial roads, construction and maintenance of rural local roads, minor traffic and engineering road safety improvements, construction of urban and arterial roads and construction of urban local roads- are of particular interest and concern. I see no logical reasons why the distribution of funds in these areas should be at the whim of a Minister in a federal government. Determination of priorities should be the sole province of State governments. 
The use of section 96 grants in this context to entice State governments to forgo their rightful responsibilities should not be condoned by this Senate as a proposition to be repeated for the next triennium. I sincerely trust that the forthcoming negotiations with the States will result in block grants for roads replacing specific distributions apart from, perhaps, grants for national highways and national commerce roads. Whilst I support this amending Bill, partly because it is part of an agreement made with the States before I came to the Senate, like  Senator Hamer  I give notice of serious reservations regarding similar measures in the future. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Do safety containers for medicines add to the difficulty many elderly or disabled people experience in keeping to their prescribed medication regime? What steps can be taken to ensure that all medication required by elderly or disabled people remains available to them in containers they can easily open- in other words, in foil or plastic bubble packs or in bottles with child-proof tops, all of which require a combination of strength and dexterity which not only children but also old people often do not possess? 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware of recent studies in the United States which indicate that anti-pollution devices installed in smoke stacks to clean air are discharging highly charged electrical particles into the atmosphere? Is this new kind of pollution likely have an adverse effect on rainfall plant or animal life? Are electrostatic precipitators installed in chimney stacks at coalfired power plants in Australia? Is any study of their effect on the environment being undertaken? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to statements reportedly made in the New South Wales Parliament by the New South Wales Minister for Youth and Community Services,  Mr Jackson,  concerning the Aboriginal settlement at West Brewarrina? What steps has the Commonwealth taken to improve conditions there? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
What are the costs of: (a) an out-patient consultation provided by public hospitals; (b) an in-patient day in public hospitals; (c) a consultation during normal hours provided by Government Health Centres; and (d) a consultation outside normal hours in Government Health Centres, in each Australian State and the Australian Capital Territory. 
What factors are taken into consideration in establishing the costs of services referred to in ( 1 ) above. 
Does the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs welcome the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ' recent proposal for a discussion in the United Nations on 'the impermissibility of hegemonism'? Do the policies of the USSR in Eastern Europe and Afghanistan constitute hegemonism? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that the latest issue of the Perth telephone directory contains no information on rates and charges, so that it is not possible to establish the cost of a telephone call or other Telecom service? Why were the simple and comprehensive tables of rates and charges that were included in the previous directory- amended as may have been necessary- not included in the new directory? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Does the Commonwealth Government support the initiative of the Western Australian Government in arranging substantially increased carry-on loans on concessional terms by way of financial aid to farmers in Western Australia's drought-stricken northern wheat belt? Has the Commonwealth agreed to an increase in the aggregate of drought loans which affected farmers are permitted, whilst still qualifying for further assistance? How many farmers are likely to qualify under new measures to be adopted? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
What are the estimated costs of fixtures and fittings in office suites for the Chief Justice and each other High Court Judge, in the High Court building presently under construction in Canberra (see Part 4 of the answer to Senate Question No. 19 12,  Hansard,  9 October 1979, page 1127). 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Commonwealth Government support the exclusion of South Africa from discussions under way in Geneva affecting or likely to affect the future of Namibia? Does the exclusion of South Africa from the talks attended by the South West African People 's Organisation and front line African states virtually condemn the current talks to failure? What initiatives will Australia take within the United Nations to make it possible for a formula to be found for talks to take place with all the involved parties present? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Government is aware of reports that the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, is seeking the return of the Monte Bello Islands to Western Australian control. Can the Minister tell the Senate something of the Commonwealth Government's intentions in the matter? 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and  Senator Gietzelt.  In speaking in this cognate debate on the Australian National University Amendment Bill 1979 and the Canberra College of Advanced Education Amendment Bill 1979, 1 state at the outset that I will be very brief. I will be addressing myself mainly to the ANU Bill. Any measure which moves towards the adoption of voluntarism is very acceptable and welcome to me. Whilst the Australian National University Amendment Bill does not go all the way, in that there will remain a capacity for the University Council to insist that fees be paid for amenities and services, it does at least seek to exclude from compulsory fees to be extracted from students funds which in the past could be and were used to support political causes with which many of the students who paid those fees did not agree. Provisions in these amendments have the stated objective of making fees payable voluntarily in respect of an organisation of students. 
However, the term 'amenities and services', as it stands, may be interpreted in a way which defeats a stated purpose of the legislation. As the amendment stands, there is no adequate definition of the term 'amenities and services'. In the absence of an adequate definition, it is worth considering for a moment the words of  His Excellency  the Governor of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Winnecke.  His Excellency,  in his judgment as visitor in the matter of the University of Melbourne and a petition to the visitor by Joseph de Simone and others, said, amongst other things: 
The interest centres around the words 'the provision of amenities or services'. The expression is a composite one. In the context it signifies little more than 'the provision of that which is of use or assistance. ' The objects, no doubt, are the students of the University. Whenever anyone is called upon to say whether an 'amenity or service' is being provided for the students, there must be involved an element of personal opinion as to whether it will be of use or assistance to them. a duty to apply money to an amenity or service or to ensure that an amenity or service is being or will be provided for the students involves the forming of such an opinion, albeit genuinely, honestly and perhaps not irrationally. 
Where the duty is to ensure that the moneys are 'applied by the organisation bona fide in the provision of amenities or services that are of direct benefit to the University' the same considerations apply, with the addition, apart from the expression 'bona fide', that the benefit to the students of the university from the amenities or services is to be 'direct'. That is a word of emphasis designed to exclude what is merely consequential or remote. But there is still involved the forming of an opinion as to the existence of the qualities described. The duty is to form an opinion that the moneys will be applied bona fide in the provision of something of use or assistance to students, that will be of benefit to the students in a way that is not merely inconsequential or remote but direct; and that involves forming the opinion genuinely and not dishonestly or irrationally. 
Whilst the judgment of His Excellency from which I have quoted concerns another matter, his words are relevant, nonetheless. They hold that the undefined expression 'amenities and services' imposes no restriction on the range of matters for which amenities and services money may be expended. I can find nothing in the Bills under discussion which will ensure that fees to be paid cannot find their way into the hands of a student organisation. Even the audited financial statements to be provided in future will not highlight excessive amounts paid to a student newspaper, for example; nor will they reveal that someone employed in a particular task, while remunerated out of fees paid for amenities and services, spends part of his paid time working on behalf of a student organisation. With the passage of this legislation, much will be left to the goodwill of the councils of both the College of Advanced Education and the Australian National University. 
It has been put to me that in the past the Council of the ANU has not showed a great or real commitment to voluntary student unionism, although I am reassured by much of what 

 Senator Rae has said tonight on that matter. Furthermore, past practices in most, if not all, Australian universities have demanded payment of other than tuition fees as a prerequisite to obtaining a university education. Part of those fees were and still are used to finance student organisations- organisations which hold views and conduct their affairs in a manner contrary to the views of many of the students who were and are forced to subscribe funds. 
As only tertiary institutions in the Australian Capital Territory involve specific Commonwealth legislation, we in the Senate have a special interest and duty. Part of that duty, as I see it, is to avoid unnecessary and unwarranted compulsion. It is reasonable that those of us who oppose compulsion in matters of association should want to see the highest standards observed in our tertiary institutions. It is equally important to encourage those institutions to observe both the principle and the practice of voluntary association and, by connotation, of voluntary disassociation. I regret that the amendments contained in this legislation do not-perhaps they cannot- meet those criteria. Apparently there is such an intention, but the form of words used does not reflect that intention. I interpret the legislation in that way on reading the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Combined with an absence of a definition of the term 'amentities and services', the wording used in proposed new section 29a (4) (b) (iv) of the Australian National University Amendment Bill also is of some concern. That provision permits fees for amenities and services being appropriated for the object of:   . . promoting the interests of students, or students and other persons, in some particular educational, social or cultural field; 
Whatever is intended by those words, they offer an opportunity to the Council of the University to thwart what proposed new section 32A of the Australian National University Amendment Bill leads me to believe is the main thrust of the measures before the Senate. Under this legislation, a student body which combines educational, social or cultural activities with poitical activity can still legitimately attract and be paid moneys subscribed for amenities and services. Given that the Bill in its present form is passed in this Senate and in the other place, I repeat the point I made earlier, that is, that what is intended will meet Government objectives in important respects only if the Council of the ANU observes the spirit rather than the letter of the proposed amendments contained in the Bill. Again I am reassured by what  Senator Rae  had to say earlier this evening. 
In passing, I think that it is worth assuming that the incidentals allowance component of the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme will be spent almost entirely on the proposed Australian National University services and amenities fee. For those at the Australian National University who qualify for TEAS, the fee in fact will be paid by the Australian taxpayer. It is also worth asking what the difference, if any, will be between the fee to be paid by those who elect to opt out of subscribing indirectly to a student organisation and the fee payable by those who are agreeable to subscribing. I for one will be interested in the extent of any differential to be struck by the Council of the Australian National University between fees payable by those who take advantage of relief from compulsion to pay part of the fee and those who do not. It should be a considerable and worthwhile saving for students who exercise their right to dissociate according to their preferences. 
I expect that a future inspection of audited accounts will confirm that surpluses resulting from on-campus trading ventures, such as the cafeteria, will not be employed to fund student organisations. I think it goes without saying that funding of that type would defeat or circumvent the stated intention of these Bills. On the whole, the Bills represent a small step towards the practice of voluntary freedom of association on the campuses of two eminent Australian tertiary institutions. There remains a long way to go, both in the Australian Capital Territory and in the rest of Australia. The Bills have my support despite the reservations I have expressed. In closing, I urge the Minister for Education to do all that is possible by way of oversight and supervision to see that the spirit of the legislation is observed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has information gathered and held by the Bureau of Customs been supplied to the Trade Practices Commission? If so, in what circumstances? Have names of importers of particular products and details of particular import transactions been passed on to the Commission? Was some of this information supplied by businessmen to the Bureau of Customs in the first instance on the clear understanding that it would be treated as confidential? Will or can the Minister assure the Senate that information supplied to the Bureau in confidence will not be released to another agency in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) What was the cost of remedying the flooding of the basement of the Australian Embassy in Paris. 
What design deficiencies were revealed by the flooding. 
To what extent does the Embassy building remain unoccupied. 
What is the realisable sale value of the building, and is the sale of it under active consideration. 
What is the estimated annual cost of leasing other adequate accommodation for Commonwealth personnel presently accommodated in the Paris Embassy. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. With the lifting of sanctions against trade with Zimbabwe likely to take place in the near future, what facilities exist in Australia to advise those who may wish to establish trade links? What plans exist for staffing a trade office in Salisbury to enable normal trade relations to be re-established between Zimbabwe and Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Which countries are members of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. 
In which of these countries do human rights, in terms of the practical constitutional freedom of citizens, approach the standards: (a) laid down in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; and ( b) enjoyed by the average Australian in Australia. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
1 ) Does Report No. 1 1 of the Commonwealth Law Reform Commission, Chapter 13, suggest that uniformity in the field of unfair publications should be achieved by the application of Commonwealth powers, including powers relating to external affairs; if so, what action, if any, is proposed by the Government on this matter. 
Are matters within the legislative competence of the States a legitimate concern of the Law Reform Commission; if so, do all State Governments agree that the Commission should concern itself with these matters. 
Is it necessary that the Commonwealth Government approve the Law Reform Commission's devotion of time and resources to researching laws and making recommendations requiring the use of Commonwealth powers which have no direct application; if so, why has such approval been given. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) Did the Government of the USSR make a diplomatic protest to the Government of Sweden concerning the holding of a Latvian song festival on the Swedish island of Gotland which was attended by some 3S0 Australian citizens injune 1979. 
Were some 170 of these Australians not permitted by the Soviet authorities to make a planned visit to Riga, the capital of Latvia, which visit has been arranged with, and approved by, the Soviets a considerable time in advance. 
Was the reason for the cancellation of this visit connected with apprehension on the part of the Soviet authorities that the visit of these Australians of Latvian origin to Riga might be used to provide a focus for nationalist feeling in Latvia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) Will: (a) access by Soviet citizens to the city of Moscow be more restricted than usual during the summer of 1980; (b) Moscow school children be sent to special 'pioneer' camps during the same period; and (c) political prisoners be transferred from Moscow gaols and psychiatric hospitals to other parts of the USSR, and the release of others delayed, as stated in recent press reports. 
Have representatives of certain news media organisations: (a) been refused permission to enter the USSR to cover the Olympic Games; or (b) been informed that they would not be permitted to enter. 
Has the International Olympic Committee violated its own rules by agreeing to hold the Games in a country where there exists racial, national, political and religious discrimination. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) What is the total cost (as at 13 November 1979) of arbitrators' and legal fees incurred by Qantas Airways Limited in connection with the commercial arbitration concerning construction of the airline 's Stage One Project in Sydney. 
What is the estimated total of these costs on completion of proceedings. 
How many Queen's Counsel, barristers and solicitors are currently acting in this matter for Qantas. 
What is the total amount: (a) claimed by the builder; (c) counter claimed by Qantas; and (c) conceded so far by either party. 
