Firstly, may I say how proud I am to represent in this House the people in the electorate of Gellibrand. They have consistently returned Labor members to this Parliament and no doubt they have great hopes that this Labor Government will provide for them a more humane, secure and just society than that which they have known for the past 23 years. Pensioners and people of low income families make up a considerable proportion of my electorate and for both of these groups poverty, or the threat of poverty, is an ever present reality. I am sure that if this Government is allowed to carry out its mandate then these abhorrent current realities will be effectively eliminated. This will be so because this Government is motivated by egalitarian values without which poverty will never be eliminated and economic security never assured. The previous Government, by shunning those egalitarian values throughout its 23 years of office, has created a situation in which many Australians live in poverty. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic Research found in its poverty study in Melbourne in 1966 that 7.7 per cent of the population was living in poverty and another 5.2 per cent was living in marginal poverty. Thus about 13 per cent of the population of Melbourne was found to be living in poverty or near poverty at that time, and that was a conservative estimate because, as those who conducted the survey stressed in their publication, the poverty line they drew at that time was 'austere' and 'stringent', to use their words. 
After that information became available the previous Government made some perfunctory efforts to alleviate the situation, but it achieved very little and this was inevitable given its apparent refusal to face up to the fact that poverty is a relative not an absolute concept. Whether or not we are poor depends not on our actual income alone but on that income compared to the incomes of other people in the community. For instance, in Indonesia the average income per head of the population in 1969 was $US100, and a person earning 5 times that amount would be well off by Indonesian standards. But in the same year Australia's average income per head was SUS2.300, so that $US500, which was a good average income in Indonesia, would certainly be a poverty income in Australia. 
Poverty then is indisputably a relative concept. It follows that its elimination can only be achieved by a concerted attempt to ensure, firstly, that those at the bottom of the income ladder are not so far below the average income level that their incomes could not be regarded as reasonable by general community standards, and, secondly, to ensure that that continues to be the situation by providing that those lowest incomes increase in step with those of the community generally. Unless we take both of these steps we will not eliminate poverty in Australia. I am immensely pleased to be a supporter of a government which intends to take both those steps. Already there is before the Parliament a Bill to increase the rates of various social service benefits as part of the process of establishing acceptable minimum income levels in our society. 
In passing may I refer to one very commendable feature of that Bill. As well as increasing the various levels of social service benefits the Bill also eliminates the totally unjustifiable and deplorable differential system which previously applied as between various benefits implying as they did that one condition of need was more respectable or less respectable than another. For instance, a man with a dependent wife and 2 children who was out of work for more than 6 weeks because he could not get a job currently receives $34 a week, but a man with the same sized family who was out of work because he was sick for that period of time receives $37 that is, S3 more. The need is the same but apparently the previous Government considered that being unemployed was somehow not respectable or the individual was to blame to some extent. Perhaps the unemployed man was penalised for being a politically embarrassing statistic. Such differentials have no place in a social welfare system which is based on compassion. It is indeed gratifying that the Social Services Bill now before the House will eliminate those differentials and provide for the needy simply because they are needy and will not involve implied value judgments about the morality of the circumstances which brought about the need. I should add that the actual benefit set out in the Bill for the unemployed and sick will provide a family of 4 with $46.50 a week which is a very considerable increase over the levels of $34 and $37 that previously applied. 
The Social Services Bill is, of course, only the first step in raising the levels of benefits to equitable levels and it is intended that when those levels have been reached they will be kept in step with community standards by moving them in accordance with the general index of wages as represented by the average weekly earnings index. In this way, their value relative to other incomes in the community will be retained, and that is basic to the elimination of poverty. Of course, a government which is concerned to eliminate poverty must do more than provide adequate social services, lt must also endeavour to ensure that the lowest wage is such that no man can work for a full week and then take home an income that would leave an average family living in poverty. The previous Government's record in this regard is appalling. In 1966 the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission introduced the minimum wage concept for adult males and although it was initially above the poverty line as set by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic Research it later fell below that level for a family of 4 and is still below that level. Since 1966 the unions have taken a number of cases to substantially increase the level of that minimum wage. But although the Commonwealth Government intervened in those cases, supposedly in the public interest, it did not make any submission of substance in support of those union applications nor did it attempt to assist the Commission in any way by providing background material that would have been helpful to the Commission in its task of setting an adequate minimum wage. I have every confidence that, in contrast to this obvious lack of concern for the lower wage earner displayed by the previous Government, the present Government will support a substantial increase in the minimum wage in the coming national wage case. 
Whilst on this matter of national wage cases I would like to refer to the claim made earlier in this debate by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that his Party was not anti-union or pro-employer. One can only say in relation to that assertion that it was hardly supported by the performance of the Opposition Parties when they were in office. There were 20 major wage cases involving union claims for general wage increases in the 23 years in which the Liberal and Country Parties were the Government of this country. These were basic wage, margins and national wage cases. The Commonwealth intervened in all of them. On only 2 out of those 20 occasions did the Commonwealth support any increase in wages at all. Once it suggested that a small increase would not be outside the capacity of the economy and once it said that it supported a moderate increase. Of the other 18 cases it flatly opposed any increase in 9 cases, including 7 out of the last 9, and although it did not specifically oppose any increase in wages in the other 9 cases the general tenor of its remarks in most of them was to emphasise the dangers of a wage increase. 
In the light of that performance by the previous Government, we on this side of the House will take a lot of convincing that the Opposition Parties are not anti-union. This is especially so when we recall that they also supported the retention of penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Resort to those clauses by employers cost the trade union movement about $500,000 in fines and costs between the early 1950s and late 1960s. I am pleased to be part of a Government which genuinely supports the legitimate aims and aspirations of the trade union movement and which will prove that by its actions in the Arbitration Commission and by abolishing the iniquitous penal clauses. 
Let me return to the general theme of my address. There are many other important ways in which action can and must be taken to eliminate poverty and to provide economic security to all. The program of this Government as outlined in the Governor-General's Speech is full of such action. An important part of that platform is a pledge to restore full employment. The previous Government, whether through incompetence or deliberate intention, periodically allowed unemployment to reach alarming levels and in so doing destroyed the economic wellbeing - such as it was - of many thousands of Australians. A government which is concerned to maintain the economic security of its people must give the highest priority to full employment. This Government is pledged to do that. 
The national compensation scheme will prevent an injury at work or leisure from dragging a family into penury, as will the scheme for universal health insurance which will guarantee all citizens freedom from fear of mammoth hospital bills and other medical expenses. The channelling of funds into schools and pre-schools on the basis of need will do much to ensure that equality of educational opportunity becomes a reality. All these measures and others like them will play an important part in bringing about the goals of the Government to which I have alluded. But there is one other aspect of the Government's program which has important egalitarian connotations to which I have not yet referred, and that is its intention to put pressure on prices or perhaps I should say on the price fixers. For the past 23 years the Government of this country fought inflation in 2 ways - by stop-go policies of deflation and reflation thereby causing substantial periodic unemployment, and by attacking wage claims. Never could it have been accused of putting real pressure on price fixers to reduce their prices or even to reduce the size of a proposed price rise. Had it done so, it could well have had more effect in reducing the rate of inflation and in the process it could have saved the consumers of Australia many millions of dollars. 
Let me refer to one specific example. The Holden car came into full production at roughly the same time as the Liberal-Country Party took office 23 years ago. At no time in the period since then did the previous Government attempt to reduce the price of the Holden, despite the enormous profits it was making for General Motors Corporation which wholly owns General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd. To prove this let me point out that the original investment from General Motors Corporation in America amounted to $1,931,600. That is the total amount of American money that has been put into General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd. That money had been well and truly repatriated a number of times over prior to the Holden project even beginning. But since the Holden project began enormous profits have been made. Between 1951 and 1972, excluding the 2 years 1960 and 1961 for which no profit figures are available, the profits made by General MotorsHolden's were $461. 6m and $246.6m was repatriated in dividends. In relation to the amount of money which came from the United States of America to finance General MotorsHolden's in the early stages, the profits amount to 239 times the original investment and the dividends amount to 128 times the original investment. Clearly this was a case where the price of the product was not only too high but also was in fact totally exorbitant. The operations of a prices justification tribunal which could have exposed this situation and brought about a lower level of Holden prices over the years would have had immense benefits for the people of Australia. 
Of course, pressure on price fixing can be achieved in other ways - for instance, through tough legislation for the control of monopolies and restrictive practices. In this regard it is relevant to note that in the United States a government survey recently found that if monopoly industries in the United States were to be broken up, prices could be reduced by 25 per cent or more. That was an internal report of the United States Federal Trade Commission. It is referred to in Ralph Nader's study group report on anti-trust enforcement which has been produced as a book entitled 'The Closed Enterprise System'. This is not to say that exactly the same situation would apply in Australia but it indicates what we all know to be the fact, and that is that monopoly and oligopoly go hand with administered prices and high profits. Action to control monopoly and to achieve a more competitive environment than currently applies in this country will be undertaken by this Government. It will result in a lower price level than would otherwise apply and in increased economic welfare for the ordinary people of Australia. 
There are other ways of putting pressure on prices and restricting their freedom to go to any level the price fixers choose. These involve our external trade position. The considerable importance of exchange revaluation as an anti-inflationary measure is only just being realised in economic circles as a more complete understanding of the inflationary process is achieved. Increasingly in economic circles the simple wage-push explanation of the cause of inflation, so beloved by employers and the previous Government, is being replaced by a realisation of the very important role played by external factors in the economy. Inflation has become much more severe throughout the world, including Australia, since the mid 1960s. Those who see union militancy as its basic cause must explain how unions all over the world suddenly became more militant in the late 1960s. They must also explain why inflation is exceptionally high in some countries such as Spain which do not have a strong trade union movement, if they have a trade union movement at all, and in which worker militancy is rare. 
Clearly, other factors are in operation. Those other factors have been spelt out convincingly by the world famous economist, Professor Harry Johnson of the University of Chicago and the London School of Economics. His thesis, in minute summary, is that high inflation which has affected the whole of the Western capitalist world in the last few years is traceable to the actions of the United States Government in the mid 1960s when it massively increased its military involvement in Vietnam without increasing taxes. The result was a substantial increase in inflation in the United States of the conventional excess demand kind, and this inflation has been exported around the world due to the dominant position of the United States in world trade and the practice of countries tying their currencies to the United States dollar, as they almost all did until the curency upheavals of the last couple of years. 
The process of transmitting inflation works through capital movements and, importantly, through increasing prices in world trade, enabling import-competing industries to raise prices to the extent of the increases in import prices without losing sales to imports. This can be shown to have operated in Australia today with price rises in a number of industries matching increased import prices. Examples of 2 such industries, which I do not have time to pursue, are the steel and motor vehicle industries. This theory is, as I have said, increasingly accepted in world economic circles. The only way to protect the country from inflation in this situation is through either direct price controls or action to lower the level of import prices, which means either exchange revaluation or reduced tariffs. This Government, as distinct from the previous Government, has shown its willingness to revalue, and this action must help to protect Australia from the rampant world inflation. Associated with policies to put pressure on prices through the establishment of a prices justification trubunal and stronger controls on the existence of monopoly power, this Government will be placing the emphasis on inflation control where it should be - on those who set the prices of commodities and services in this community and not on those who have to pay them. 
May I conclude by saying that the program outlined by the Governor-General will clearly lead to the eventual abolition of poverty in our society and a more secure and just society for the vast majority of Australians. But in achieving this we should not lose sight of our wider responsibility, and that is to be concerned with the poor people not only of this country but of the whole world. The economic disparities between the richest and the poorest countries in the world are enormous and getting larger. The gross national product per capita for the United States of America in 1969 was 40 times higher than that of India and growing 4 times as fast. The relative nature of poverty to which I alluded earlier applies as between nations as well as within them, and drastic action on a world level is necessary if the great majority of the people of the world are not to become even more poverty-stricken in the future. In the world councils, in our trade policies and in our aid policies we must endeavour to assist the underdeveloped countries to increase their rates of growth. To do so is not only the decent and humane thing to do; it could also represent a very rewarding investment in our future national security. 
In my comments on this Bill F will be referring to aspects of the economic impact of the measures undertaken in this Bill which were mentioned by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner).  Other aspects raised by him will be mentioned by later speakers on the Government side. This Bill seeks to grant Commonwealth public servants one additional week's leave and in considering the Bill it is imperative to bear in mind that when it is passed by this Parliament it will result in the first increase in annual leave for Commonwealth public servants since Federation. That is almost three-quarters of a century ago, during which time this nation has made immense economic progress, but despite their important contribution to that progress Commonwealth public servants have not had their annual leave entitlement increased one iota. That is the broad context in which this Bill comes before the House and forms an important argument in its support. 
However, before going into any detail on arguments in support of the Bill I should like to make it clear that the previous Government had plenty of opportunity to implement 4 weeks annual leave for its employees but constantly refused to do  so.  It was formally approached regarding 4 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants by a joint deputation of the 3 national trade union councils, namely, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council of Salaried Professional Associations and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, 3 times in its last 7 years in office. On each occasion there was a different Prime Minister and on each occasion the claim was rejected. 
On the first occasion in October 1965 Prime Minister Menzies gave some reasons for refusing the claim, and I shall have something to say later regarding those reasons. But the subsequent deputations to Prime Minister Holt in 1966 and to Prime Minister Gorton in December 1969 had their claims summarily rejected. Prime Minister Holt merely endorsed the reasons given by Prime Minister Menzies the year before and Prime Minister Gorton deemed it appropriate to convey his rejection of ' the various claims by way of a pithy telegram in which he said: 
The Government has concluded that having regard to the existing relevant circumstances it would  be  inappropriate to grant an extra weeks annual leave at this time. 
That telegram was sent on 1 1 th December 1969.  Mr Gorton  did not bother to say what were the 'existing relevant circumstances' that made it inappropriate to grant 4 weeks leave at that lime but whatever they were they were apparently still applicable in the previous Government's view in 1971 when the 3 national trade union bodies lodged claims before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for an additional week's leave, not just for Commonwealth employees, but for all employees under Commonwealth awards who were not already receiving 4 weeks leave. These claims were strenuously opposed by the previous Government which intervened in the case supposedly in the public interest. In any event, the Commission refused to grant the additional week's leave and perhaps this was not surprising given the vehemence of the Commonwealth's opposition. 
This then is the recent history of attempts by employee organisations to obtain 4 weeks leave for Commonwealth public servants and it is a history of implacable opposition by the previous Government. That opposition has been principally based on the alleged cost of an additional week's leave. That was the main reason used by Prime Minister Menzies in 1965 and it again formed the basis of the previous Government's opposition in the 1971 annual leave case. In fact, this cost has been vastly overstated and does not represent a valid reason for rejecting the sound arguments which had been put forward by unions in the past in their deputations for the granting of an extra week's leave for Commonwealth employees. 
It is impossible in the time available to spell out all the reasons which support the action contemplated by this Bill, but I would like quickly to mention some of these reasons. Firstly, there is the fact, as I have already mentioned, that Commonwealth public servants have not received an increase in annual leave in the history of the Commonwealth. They were awarded 3 weeks leave at the time of Federation at which time State public servants received 3 weeks leave and in fact had done so since the 1860s. The Commonwealth merely established the same standard. Since then, despite the tremendous expansion in the economic prosperity of the nation, annual leave for Commonwealth public servants has remained unchanged. However, in the rest of the community annual leave entitlements have changed considerably in the last 35 to 40 years. 
In private industry annual leave was virtually non-existent until the late 1930s when one week's annual leave became general and was expanded to 2 weeks immediately after the end of the Second World War. The 3 weeks standard was generally obtained in 1963 and in1964 the NSW industrial commission upheld, in appeal proceedings, the award of 4 weeks leave to employees of the Murrumbidgee County Council by the County Councils (Electricity Undertakings) Conciliation Committee. In the same year - 1964 - NSW Government employees were granted 4 weeks leave and in 1967 the South Australian Government granted 4 weeks leave to its wages employees. Since then salaried employees of the South Australian Government have also received the additional week's leave. The incidence of 4 weeks leave has continued to increase in recent years with 4 weeks leave being obtained by agreement by many employees in a wide range of occupations. 
I have mentioned that public servants in New South Wales, and government employees working for New South Wales State instrumentalities, commissions and authorities also receive 4 weeks leave as do employeesof New South Wales universities and employees of local governments in New South Wales. In South Australia, apart from public servants, employees of State instrumentalities, commissions and authorities also receive 4 weeks leave. In Victoria 12 municipal councils awarded their employees 4 weeks leave. All employees in the coal industry receive this benefit as do employees under the artificial fertilisers and chemical workers award in the carbon black industry. Employees of the Rural Bank of New South Wales are covered by 4 weeks annual leave as are employees in the amusement and theatrical area covered by agreement with cinema proprietors. Employees under the Western Australian government executive officers award which covers town clerks, shire clerks, engineers and so on receive 4 weeks leave. So too do the employees of the State Bank of South Australia and of the Australian National University. All school teachers - at primary, secondary and technical levels - receive considerably more than 4 weeks leave. All foreman stevedores in Australia receive 4 weeks leave as do waterside workers and other employees working in container terminals. Employees in the oil industry receive 4 weeks leave. 
It can be seen from that information that the benefit of 4 weeks leave applies to employees over a wide range of employment. But it does remain true that in the main this covers Government employees. In fact, 37 per cent of Government employees in Australia receive 4 weeks leave. It can be seen then that the Commonwealth Government is now providing a standard of annual leave that is less than that which is received by many other government employees. Indeed it is providing a standard less than that which now applies to some employees in private industry who 40 years ago would not have received any annual leave at all. Given that their annual leave entitlement has not increased in threequarters of a century, that almost two-fifths of government employees in this country now receive an extra week's leave and that that standard is gradually expanding into private industry, Commonwealth public servants can be seen to be well overdue for the receipt of 4 weeks annual leave. 
If Jong service leave is taken into account Commonwealth public servants are seen to be in an even more adverse situation vis-a-vis the general position of State public servants than on a direct comparison of annual leave. Except for Queensland, long service leave entitlements of public servants in the States are at least as good as those applying in the Commonwealth and in Western Australia they are markedly better. Thus there can be no suggestion that long service leave entitlements of Commonwealth employees in some way make up for the fact that they receive less annual leave than New South Wales and South Australian government employees. 
Overseas comparisons are difficult to make but it is relevant that a number of developed overseas countries have 4 weeks as the minimum standard for annual leave. Norway and Sweden passed legislation in 1964 giving a minimum 4 weeks leave to all employees - not just to government employees but to all employees. In France legislation in 1968 provided for a minimum of 4 weeks leave for all employees and many employees receive additional days leave, according to a publication from the European Economic Community called Trade Union News, No. 5, Winter 1970/71 - a publication of the European Economic Community press and information office in London. 
The same publication shows that in other European countries the minimum annual leave is generally 3 weeks with many employees receiving a greater amount by collective agreement. In the public service specifically there is no European country that has a lesser amount of annual leave than the Australian Commonwealth Public Service and most of them have considerably more. Thus a standard of 4 weeks leave for Commonwealth public servants would not create some revolutionary high standard beyond anything applying overseas. The fact is that 4 weeks leave is common in Europe so it cannot be said that that standard is impractical in any way. Indeed the countries to which I have specifically referred seem to be flourishing economically with at least that standard of annual leave applying to all employees. Despite this evidence and many other subsidiary arguments supporting this claim for 4 weeks leave the previous Government  -  (Quorum formed). 
 1 was making the point that the arguments to which I have been referring supported the claim for 4 weeks annual leave. Despite those arguments the previous Government rejected the claim mainly on the basis that this would lead to an increase in labour costs and therefore, it was said, in prices. That was  Sir Robert  Menzies' argument in rejecting the unions' claims in 1965. 
 I am coming to that. He maintained that the granting of the additional week of leave would require recruitment of a large number of additional Commonwealth employees, thereby substantially increasing the wage and salary bill of the Commonwealth and 'straining the labour resources of the community'.  Sir Robert  claimed that an additional 5,800 employees would be needed at a cost of SI 8m per annum. He arrived at that amount by assuming that with one week less in work time production would fall in proportion, that is, he assumed that there would not be any increase in employee productivity as a result of reduced working time, whereas in fact there are good reasons for assuming that such a consequential productivity increase would occur. 
The previous Government continued that line of argument in the 1971 annual leave case but I will not repeat exactly what was said in that case. To say that this approach of the former Government overstated the cost of 4 weeks leave would be indeed euphemistic. For a start, the Commonwealth in the 1971 case made no allowance whatever for the fact that at least 10 per cent of Australian employees already received 4 weeks leave. That alone has resulted in a substantial costs overestimate. But in addition, as I have said, no allowance was made for increased productivity of employees as a result of increased leave. This consequential increase in productivity is quite likely. The reason for it was well expressed by counsel for the State of New South Wales in intervening in the 1962 annual leave case before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I had intended to refer to the statement by the counsel for New South Wales. Briefly, he spells out 4 reasons why there would be a consequential increase in productivity if increased leisure were granted to employees, but in view of the hour I will not bother reading his comments. 
That argument was put forward by New South Wales in 1962. In 1964, following the general spread of 3 weeks leave, the New South Wales Government decided to grant 4 weeks leave to New South Wales public servants. Tt is relevant to note what happened in New South Wales following the increase of annual leave from 3 weeks to 4 weeks. If the arguments of the previous Government had been valid one would have expected a substantial increase in the recruitment of additional public servants in New South Wales following the implementation of this increase in annual leave. In fact this did not happen, as a table which I have clearly shows. I seek leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document reads as follows) - 

<graphic href="082131197303282_64_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The table shows that when the increased leave was granted the percentage increase in recruitment compared with recruitment in the previous year was 6.5 per cent. In the following year, the rise was only 5.1 per cent. 
Debate interrupted. 
When this debate was adjourned last night I was making the point in regard to this Bill, which gives 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants, that this 4 weeks leave had been vigorously opposed by the previous Government which had in doing so grossly overstated the alleged costs of introducing 4 weeks leave for Commonwealth public servants and employees generally. I referred to the New South Wales example to show that the kind of proposition put forward by the previous Government just did not hold true because in fact as a result of the introduction of 4 weeks leave there was no substantial increase in employment above the normal rate of increase. The reason is that there was increased productivity stemming from increased leisure. That was explained by counsel for the State of New South Wales in the 1962 annual leave case before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Very briefly summarised it was claimed, firstly, by arranging annual leave so that it falls in the period of least work load there is a productivity benefit. Secondly, by speading the work of an individual who is on leave over the group with whom he carried out his tasks, the output of the group as a whole is maintained. Thirdly, the fact that outstanding problems are generally cleaned up before an individual goes on leave increases his productivity in the period preceding the taking of leave. 
If we look at what happened in the nation as a whole at the time of the granting of 3 weeks leave to employees in 1963 we can see that there must have been induced productivity as a result. I have not time to go into the evidence in support of that. We can therefore regard with considerable scepticism the previous Government's dire warnings as to the cost of an extra week's annual leave. There can be no doubt that the previous Government considerably overstated the cost to the Commonwealth of applying this benefit to its employees and to employees generally by completely ignoring the consequential productivity increase factor. The evidence seems to indicate that this is an important factor and although we cannot be precise as to its effect on the cost of granting an additional week's leave to Commonwealth public servants we can be certain that it will cost much less than the previous Government said it would cost. In that situation we should concentrate our attention on the equity argument for granting an additional week's leave to our public servants and if we do that the case for it is overwhelming. I commend the Bill to the House. 
When the Treasurer was in the United States of America was his attention drawn to the rapidly rising food prices in that country as evidenced by the increase of 31 per cent over the last 6 months in the farm products and processed food section of the American wholesale price index? Can he inform the House whether such rapid increases in food prices in the United States in any way account for the recent increases in food prices in Australia? 
This important Bill has 2 key facets for the Government and the trade union movement. I refer first to the aim of simpler amalgamation of unions and second to the provisions of the Bill dealing with the abolition of the penal sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That amalgamation of unions is to be made earlier will be of great benefit not only to trade unions but also to society generally. It is certainly important to the trade unions because, by being able to amalgamate into larger union bodies, they can operate much more efficiently and effectively than as a group of small unions. This comes about in many ways. Where unions have amalgamated it has been notable that they have established research facilities. Such facilities have been appallingly absent in the trade union move ment until the last decade or so. Amalgamation has enabled unions to establish effective research sections which, in turn have enabled them to operate much more effectively for their members. I do not wish to list all the advantages gained by unions through amalgamation, but it is clear that the greater size of union bodies makes them more efficient in their operations. 
Society as a whole also has a vested interest in larger unions because of the obvious likelihood of reductions in the numbers of demarcation disputes. Demarcation disputes have aptly been described as the cancer of the trade union movement. Certainly it is desirable that everything possible be done to eliminate them and the best way to eliminate them is to have larger trade union bodies. The aim of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is to establish industrial unions. Where industrial unions have been established in other countries there has been a marked reduction in demarcation disputes. In that respect 1 refer to the October 1972 edition of the 'Australian Director'. Is contains an article by  Dr Buttner,  Director of the West German Productivity Organisation. The article is entitled: 'Higher Productivity - The West German Experience'. The author explains that in West Germany one of the reasons for the tremendously high productivity there is the small number of unions. At page 67 of the publication  Dr Buttner  writes: 
There are 16 industrial unions who organise 7 million workers on the principle of one plant - one union only, so demarcation disputes which are frequent in England for instance are completely unknown in Germany. 
By enabling simpler amalgamation of unions this measure will help in the establishment of industrial unionism. This will certainly bring about benefits for industry generally and a reduction in the number of disputes. An even more important function nf this Bill is the removal from the principal Act of the penal and sanction provisions. The main targets in this respect are the provisions relating to contempt of court. These provisions have been tremendously important to the trade union movement in this country. They have involved a mammoth payout of funds, particularly in the period from the mid-1950s to the late 1960s, until they became virtually inoperative in mid- 1969. 
I wish to cite some figures relating to the period from 1957 to 1968. In that period the greatest number of contempt of court proceedings were instituted in the history of the Act. In that period 788 fines totalling $280,210 were imposed on trade unions. The costs associated with these proceedings generally work out to be roughly the same as the amount of the fines. Using that rough procedure this means that from 1957 to 1968 the trade union movement was fined by the Commonwealth Industrial Court, in contempt of court proceedings, well over $500,000. This is a tremendous sum. Certainly it is one which caused a tremendous reaction within the trade union movement. Of course, it is obvious that once enormous sums like this are imposed on trade unions there must come about not the settlement of industrial disputes but the exacerbation of industrial disputation. That is what happened, climaxing in the events of May 1969, after which the sanctions clauses became inoperative. 
One can use various arguments against the contempt of court proceedings. I shall go through a few of them. The first is the obvious one which I have mentioned, that is, the sheer counterproductive nature of such penalties. They exacerbate industrial disputes; they do not settle them. If we keep fining unions heavily we do not settle industrial disputes. We do not establish greater rapport between unions and employers; we just divide them into warring parties. This is certainly no way in which to bring about a better industrial environment. Secondly, fines have been imposed where the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has refused to arbitrate. This is totally objectionable. An example of this is the General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd case in 1964. This was a very big dispute which was brought about largely by the enormous profitability of GMH, which was making annually many times the total amount of funds which had been invested in the company by the parent organisation. In 1964 a big dispute developed and the unions went on strike for the best part of a month for a S6 increase in pay. As a result of that strike the unions were fined $19,000, and when they finally agreed to go to arbitration there were potential fines of some $30,000 hanging over their heads. 
The case went to arbitration. It took almost 2 years to settle. When the decision was finally given in 1966 the Commission said that it did not arbitrate in cases of that nature and that it was not there to settle industrial disputes relating to over-award claims for one company. It said that it settled industrial disputes on an industry basis, providing the same rates for all people in the industry, and that it was not there to deal with industrial disputes relating to over-award payments within one company. Nevertheless, the unions had been fined $19,000. That amount was doubled with costs so that altogether the penalties approached $40,000. The dispute related to a matter on which the arbitration system was certainly entitled to adjudicate but on which it was not prepared to adjudicate. It is totally objectionable to the trade union movement that this sort of thing can happen. Of course, this is what happens. Over-award payments disputes often lead or in the past have led to industrial court proceedings. Often they have been against a particular company and they have been nonarbitral. But despite this fact the Industrial Court has imposed heavy fines on unions. This is a totally objectionable procedure and obviously one which favours the employers rather than the trade union movement. 
Thirdly, fines have been imposed where the Commission wanted to arbitrate but the employers denied that right to the Commission. Nevertheless the employers were prepared to use the Industrial Court to impose fines. A good example of this kind of dispute was the tramways dispute in 1965. This dispute built up over some time and it involved one-man buses. It involved the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board which tried to introduce one-man buses on certain routes in Melbourne and refused to negotiate with the unions about the matter. The unions asked the Commission to put in the award a clause which would require the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board to negotiate with the unions on this matter. The Tramways Board went to the High Court 4 times to try to stop the Commissioner inserting such a clause in the award because it said that this was a management prerogative and that the unions just had to cop it. While the Tramways Board, by going to the High Court, was frustrating the desire of the Commissioner in his attempts to settle this dispute the union was involved in a number of stoppages over the issue in protest against the action of the Tramways Board. They were taken to the Industrial Court by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board and fined $7,200, again plus costs. So the penalty imposed, in a matter in which the 
Tramways Board was saying that the Commission did not have the right to arbitrate, was about $15,000. But while the Tramways Board claimed in the Arbitration Commission that the  Commission  did not have a right to arbitrate in the matter it was quite prepared to have fines imposed by the industrial court on the union in respect of this same dispute - again a totally objectionable procedure. 
There is a fourth reason, which is a general conceptual one and which has certainly been used by the trade unions and members of the Labor Party in the past to justify arguments for the abolition of the contempt of court procedures. This is the general conceptual point that whilst the trade unions are obliged to accept decisions of the Arbitration Commission and the employers must pay the rates awarded by the Commission the employers can, in effect, evade their obligations in this regard by raising their prices. It is certainly true that so long as employers can raise their prices following an arbitrator's decision on wages they are effectively evading their responsibilities under that decision by reducing the real wages of the employees which is what really matters. 
It is hypocritical for employers and members of the Opposition to say that unions have an obligation to accept decisions of the Commissioner relating to wages when employers are free to raise their prices. I must admit that this fourth factor, to which I am now alluding may, in fact, have to be modified slightly depending on the effectiveness of the proposed prices justification tribunal. But certainly it is true that so long as employers can use a wage increase granted by an arbitrator as a basis for justifying increases in prices, there is no justification for having penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to punish striking unions. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said that other countries have sanctions applying to unions. The only country which has an industrial system similar to Australia's is New Zealand. According to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition this morning sanctions remain in use in New Zealand. I do not know quite what he meant by that statement. To my knowledge those sanctions have hardly ever been used in New Zealand. Certainly they remain in the legislation, but they have practically never been used. There was an amendment to the New Zealand act in 1962 to enable employers to initiate proceedings to invoke sanctions. Previously only the Government could take this action. Only twice between 1962 and 1968 was any action taken by employers in New Zealand in regard to sanctions. 
In 1968 the secretary of the New Zealand Department of Labour,  Mr Woods,  produced a report on industrial legislation. In this report he set out a number of reasons why penal legislation to deal with strikes is impossible to enforce. I will just give a summary of those reasons. The first one was that international trade unionism holds firmly to the right to strike as a fundamental human freedom. The second was that there was no means of making people work if they stand firm on a refusal to work. The third was that it is unlikely for workers to inflict loss of earnings on themselves and their families without feeling that they have good reasons for the action they are taking. Fourthly, penalties against strikers cannot be enforced because the objective of industrial relations is to maintain, and, in the case of a breakdown, restore relations. Penalties merely inflame the situation. Fifthly, since in most cases of strike action both parties are to blame, the fact that only workers are penalised causes permanent alienation of the work force. 
Sixthly, if workers have won their claim the infliction of a penalty appears absurd; if workers lose, their grievance is compounded. Seventhly, where workers concertedly refuse to pay fines, imprisonment is no solution since it removes the work force more effectively from its work place than the strike itself. Eighthly, fining unions instead of workers may destroy unions as effective organisations; yet the existence of strong partners in negotiations is recognised by employers as a prerequisite of successful industrial relations. That is a summary of 8 reasons given in 1968 by the Secretary of the Department of Labour in New Zealand,  Mr Woods,  as to why the penal clauses in that country are impossible to enforce and should not be enforced. He made it quite clear in that report on industrial relations that it was his opinion that sanctions should not be used in industrial relations contexts. 
One other factor to which I have time to refer quickly is the proposed protection of unions from actions for tort. The Minister in his second reading speech has mentioned that this system already operates in Queensland and has operated in the United Kingdom since 1906. I mention only that in 1968 the British Royal Commission into trade unions brought down its report in which it found that the system which had operated from 1906 until 1968 in that regard should continue. lt had been argued by the employers that that should not be the case, that unions should be capable of being sued for actions for tort. The Royal Commission found against that view. So there has been a long and detailed analysis of this matter in that country from 1965 to 1968. It took 3 years for the Royal Commission to make its report and it found that the situation should continue. By means of this Bill we simply are introducing that system which has operated in the United Kingdom since 1906. 
I would like to refer very briefly to section 138 of the Act which is known as the incitement to boycott section. This is a quite repugnant section of the Act which involves fines being imposed on individual persons for incitement or encouragement of people to go on strike. This provision has not been used extensively but it was used in the late 1950s and in 1960 in a couple of quite famous cases, the most famous being the Mclvor case which involved a Queensland meat industry union organiser who advised a fellow member of the union to leave a place of employment. He was found guilty under section 138 of the Act of incitement to boycott. He .was fined $20 and ordered to pay $372.44 costs. I might say that eventually he was declared a bankrupt because he did not have the money to pay. When the case went to the High Court it was found that he did not have to pay anyway after being declared a bankrupt. Another case involved a  Mr Taylor  who was also a meat industry unionist. He was convicted in 1959 of 2 breaches of section 138 of the Act. He was fine $230 and ordered to pay $1,400 costs. He never paid those costs, and I am glad to say that he did not. They have never been collected. Section 138 has been virtually inoperative since 1959-60 when those 2 cases I have mentioned came about. The amendment to remove this quite repugnant section from the Act is certainly worth while. I strongly support the Bill. 
 I am pleased indeed to be able to make a few brief remarks in support of this Bill. It represents the first legislative action to carry out the election promise by the Government to provide Commonwealth funds to improve the quality of life in the deprived sectors of our major cities. One of the roles of the Cities Commission is to study regional areas of cities and to make assessments of proposals for financial support to those areas. My electorate of Gellibrand is in the western part of Melbourne and it would certainly be one of the most deprived areas in the cities of Australia. Along with the western suburbs of Sydney, it would be one of the 2 key deprived areas in the nation. I will quickly give the Parliament some idea of the area around my electorate. The western suburbs of Melbourne contain roughly 330,000 people, most of whom are in the relatively low income bracket. In my area in particular, which is the inner part of the western area of Melbourne, there are mainly wage earners and pensioners. There is a very high proportion of migrants in my area - about 35 per cent of the population was born overseas - and also a high proportion of elderly people. The migrants tend mainly to be unskilled or semi-skilled people and, of course, the elderly people are mainly pensioners. So, generally speaking, it is a low income area. 
The terrain of the area is flat and uninteresting. The most interesting part of the area is the Maribyrnong River valley, which gainly is taken up by the Commonwealth Government particularly by the Department of Supply, much of the land being used for industry. The area is deprived of many com munity facilities such as schools, hospitals and so on. However, these aspects will be dealt with by the proposed Schools Commission and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. More particularly related to this Bill is the fact that the area is deprived of a great number of other community facilities such as roads, libraries, child care centres, recreational centres, social welfare services and all the facilities which are provided by local governments. 
Increasingly, the people in the western part of Melbourne are realising just how deprived they are. A number of seminars have been conducted in the last couple of years, nominated as 'Deprived West' seminars, in which people have presented papers to demonstrate how deprived the area is compared with the eastern suburbs of Melbourne. It has become quite clear that the major reason for this deprivation in regard to local community facilities provided by local government can be traced to two or three factors. Firstly, large areas in the western part of Melbourne simply are non-rateable, because the land is held by the Commonwealth Government or the State Government. In the city of Williamstown, which is solely within my electorate, one-third of the land is non-rateable. In the city of Sunshine, which is partly within my electorate, 24 per cent of the land is nonrateable. This means that the local government must provide facilities such as roads and so on for areas from which they receive no revenue whatever. That is the first problem. 
The second problem is that in the lower income areas there is a limit to the amount of rates that can be applied. I give honourable members an example which was mentioned in the 'National Times' of 9th April. The article referred to Sydney and mentioned that in 1966 in the more affluent area of Kuring-gai, the value of real estate per head was 86,076. In Fairfield, in Sydney's western suburbs, the value of real estate was $2,300 per head. The rate in Kuring-gai on improved capital value was 1.29 per cent which raised revenue of $31 a head. In Fairfield, the rate was 1.86 per cent - a much higher rate - which brought in only $19 a head because of the much lower rate of value of real estate a head in that area. The same situation applies to the western suburbs of Melbourne, lt means that there is a limit to how much the local government can raise in the way of rates. 
Thirdly, and in my opinion quite importantly, the Commonwealth currently is and has for a long time assisted, albeit indirectly, the higher income areas by allowing rates as a deduction for income tax purposes. The Government has done this by saying: 'If you pay $100 in rates, you can deduct that from your income for tax purposes'. If a person is paying 50c taxation in $1, as he would be, on average in the more affluent areas, he would save $50 in tax that he otherwise would have had to pay. In effect, his net rate would be $50. In the working class areas the marginal rates of tax are much lower. Let us say that it is only 30c in $1. The margin in this case on an annual rate of $100 means that it costs those people $70 net in rates. This means that the Commonwealth Government indirectly is providing assistance to local government authorities in a way which gives much greater assistance to the higher income areas. This, of course, is the complete opposite of what should happen. 
It points to the need for direct Commonwealth assistance to the poorer areas of these major cities to offset this quite inequitable process of aiding the higher income areas through the tax system. Of course, there could be a change in the tax system - I would hope eventually that there would be - but even if that came into being, because of what has happened over a long period there still is a need for the Commonwealth Government to make allocations of funds directly to local government authorities in the less affluent areas. 
As I have said, the people in the western suburbs of Melbourne are becoming increasingly aware that they are deprived. This is part of the whole awareness of the environment which is occurring increasingly throughout the community. They have organised themselves into a region which at the moment is loosely known as the Western Region Commission. It is an organisation of 8 municipalities in the western part of Melbourne and that body already has co-ordinated those 8 local government councils into providing a submission to the Commonwealth Government setting out what they see as the needs of the area. This is only a preliminary matter. Of course, there will be a much more detailed investigation of the issue by the proposed Cities Commission before any funds are made available to the area. I rose tonight simply to make the point that the people of western Melbourne are deprived. They have been dprived because of the policies of the previous Government in not making direct assistance available through the tax system. These people are looking forward to the Cities Commission being the body which will enable them to make available much better community service facilties in their part of the world. I support the Bill. 
 I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware of reports that the Victorian Minister for Education has informed municipal representatives of Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo that the Commonwealth has refused to consider a Victorian proposal for a fourth university in those centres. Can he inform the House of the proposals that have been received by the Commonwealth on this matter? 
I intend to address myself to the philosophy underlying the Bill rather than to the details of the Bill itself. This is an important Bill because it represents the legislative expression of this Government's belief that the real answer to inflation is to be found in policies which place a restraining pressure on prices. It certainly is distinct from the previous Government's attitude that inflation was due primarily to wage increases; so it had to do its utmost to restrain wages but did virtually nothing to restrain prices. Its only action on prices which comes to mind is the action to abolish resale price maintenance which, of course, it was virtually forced into by the actions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
In regard to wage control, the previous Government - now the Opposition - became increasingly concerned to limit wage rises as inflation built up in the late 1960s. It had 2 ways of doing this: Firstly, it opposed nearly all applications for increases in wages and for improvements in conditions of employment. Secondly, it supported the use of penal clauses in disputes regarding over-award payments. When the penal clauses became inoperative in 1969, the Government turned to the creation of unemployment as a means of taking the heat out of over-award disputes. After the 1971 Budget, which was a tough Budget designed to increase unemployment, the number of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service increased rapidly, and by the end of December that year the number had reached 120,000. Commenting on those numbers of unemployed, the then Treasurer - now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  - as reported in the 'Australian' of 22nd January 1972, said: 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over-award payments are depressed. 
I stress that he was saying that in relation to a situation where 120,000 people were out of work. So it is quite clear that the previous Government had the idea that the way to beat inflation was to increase unemployment and therefore take the heat out of over-award payment claims. This attitude of the previous Government is being continued in Opposition. The Opposition is still saying that wage increases are the basic cause of inflation, but in so doing it is constantly ignoring the evidence from economic and econometric studies around the world that inflation cannot simply be blamed on the trade unions. These studies show that the basic explanation is to be found in the greatly accelerated inflation in the United States in the mid-1960s and its subsequent transmission around the world. 
It is important to realise that inflation is a world-wide problem. In all the developed countries of the world it increased rapidly in the latter part of the 1960s. High inflation rates have continued into the early 1970s. If trade union militancy is supposed to be the cause of inflation it is remarkable how it increased apparently - if that thesis is right - in all the developed countries of the western world at more or less the same time. Clearly this is an absurd hypothesis and it does not need just me to say so. It has been said by all economists who have made studies of the subject. 
I refer at this point to an article by  Mr Congdon  in the National Westminster Bank Quarterly Review of February 1973. The article is entitled 'Why has Inflation Accelerated?' In his conclusion  Mr Congdon  said this: 
If one supposes, for the sake of argument, that it was an independent variable, a number of problems arise. First, is it likely that labour militancy would increase in every one of the twenty or so OECD countries suffering from inflation in the late 1960s? There is no evidence of a connection between nations' rates of inflation and their degrees of unionisation, their strike records or the political complexions of their labour leaders. 
Quite clearly  Mr Congdon,  having analysed inflation in the United Kingdom in particular, in that article has rejected the whole concept of trade union militancy as the cause of inflation. Inflation, as I have said, is worldwide. Clearly there must be some rational explanation for the inflation phenomenon, particularly as it has generally resisted the attempts of governments to overcome it by deflationary policies. As in Australia in 1972, governments elsewhere have found that with quite exceptionally high unemployment rates inflation still continued at a relatively high rate. This contravenes all previous economic experience. 
The first convincing explanation of this phenomenon was produced by a world famous economist in 1971. That economist was Professor Harry Johnson, a professor of economics at the London School of Economics and the University of Chicago. He maintained that the basic cause of the sudden upsurge in world inflation was excess demand conditions in the United States after 196S, brought about mainly by the enormous escalation of United States military involvement in Vietnam at that time and the consequent enormous escalation of United States military spending. I quote a couple of sections from the article produced by Professor Johnson in the 'International Currency Review' of August 1971. The article is entitled 'The Inflation Crisis'. At page 6 of the article he said: 
In the 1950s and early 1960s, basically, the United States economy was characterised by approximate stability of prices; and this exercised a stabilising influence on world prices. This characteristic changed with the escalation of the war in Vietnam, and  especially with the failure of the Johnson Administration to finance the escalation of the war by appropriate increases in taxation. Instead, the war was financed in part by inflation. And the inflation tax has fallen on the whole world economy, not merely the citizens of the United States. 
At page 7 of the article he says: 
The world inflation, then, can be attributed largely to a change towards inflationary behaviour on the part of the United States. The details of events in other countries can of course be used to tell a tale of domestic causation of inflation and in particular to blame inflation on the irresponsibility of the trade unions, but I would instead regard them merely as details in the process of transmission of world inflation, sparked by the United States, to the individual countries concerned. 
Before pursuing Professor Johnson's thesis I refer quickly to the reference of the Leader of the Opposition to Professor Johnson as a discredited American academic'. The Leader of the Opposition said that in the debate on the Joint Committee on Prices in this House on 28th March of this year as reported at page 787 of Hansard. In that debate the Leader of the Opposition went on to demonstrate convincingly that he had no idea of what Professor Johnson was talking about. He said: 
This thesis said that essentially inflation was caused by Americans financing the Vietnam war and by some means caused by that was exporting inflation to other countries. 
Firstly, that could relate only to demand inflation and our problem has been cost and wage inflation. Secondly, there is no explanation of how this inflation could have been transferred to Australia. 
In fact, the Leader of the Opposition is wrong on both of these points. Firstly, Professor Johnson did not say that inflation was transferred to other countries only as demand inflation. Other ways of it being transferred are even more important. Secondly, Professor Johnson, immediately after the passage I quoted, went on to spell out ways in which inflation could be transmitted from the United States to other countries. There are 2 basic ways. The first is through the United States' chronically large balance of payments deficit and the consequent build-up of reserves in other countries, making monetary policies difficult to manage in those countries. That was accentuated if expectations of an appreciation of the currencies of those countries relative to the United States dollar built up. That would cause speculative capital inflows. This monetary effect of course related to the demand levels as would a general improvement in the balance of trade brought about by the com petitive position of a country vis-a-vis the United States. 
The second way in which inflation is transmitted, according to Professor Johnson, does not involve demand. This of course is where the Leader of the Opposition was quite wrong. It involves the price of internationally traded goods. If there is world inflation prices of exports may rise and, so will their price on the home market. This has not been a big factor in Australia because export prices have not risen much until recently. But lately wool and meat prices have increased rapidly on world markets and we have seen the effect on the domestic market. 
More importantly still, import prices will rise with world inflation. That will not only have a direct effect on prices in the Australian market because we will have to pay more for our imported goods; it will have an indirect effect as well. That comes about by raising the prices at which local producers of importable commodities can sell their products without losing sales to exports. In regard to this indirect effect of imports I can give 2 quick examples. One relates to General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd in 1971. In that year it raised the price of the Holden Kingswood sedan - its best selling car - by 12 per cent. In that same calendar year of 1971, according to the Reserve Bank, the price of imported motor cars in Australia went up by 12 per cent. So here we see clearly the lifting of the competitive ceiling through the increase in import prices enabling Holdens to raise the price of its car without losing sales to competitive imports. 
Another example is that of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Every increase in its steel prices in the last few years has been preceded by increases in prices of imported steel, not least the attempt to increase its steel price by more than 3 per cent this year. Again, this action was preceded by substantial increases in prices of imported steel. In the early part of 1972, when BHP raised the price of steel, it went completely against conventional economics in raising the price of its steel at that tune. Demand was slack but nevertheless it raised its prices. One reason given was that as demand was slack its cost per unit had gone up. This was because the fixed costs of all its equipment had to be allocated over a smaller number of units of output and, therefore, the cost per unit had gone up. 
It is unusual, to say the least, in conventional economics, to raise prices when demand is down. But Professor Johnson explained why this is done. In such cases companies will not lose sales to imports if they raise their prices and they know that the depressed demand conditions brought about by Government action will not last because the Government will abandon its tough economic program as elections draw near. This is exactly what happened in 1972. There was a tough Budget in 1971, but BHP increased its prices knowing full well that in 1972 the then government would in the 1972 Budget make very sure that the tough economic program ceased. In fact, the previous Government was taking other economic measures well before the 1972 Budget. In these conditions companies expect that demand will pick up in the near future, even if tough economic programs are being applied by the Government at the time. So despite slack demand BHP did not hesitate to raise its prices. Here we have the explanation of stagflation a stagnant no-growth or littlegrowth economy, high unemployment and inflation. 
From this brief look at the Australian experience we can see that the Johnson thesis is clearly far from discredited. In fact it is increasingly accepted by a number of economists around the world. I have mentioned  Mr Congdon's  article. He accepted in that article the great importance of United States expenditure as an initiator of the world inflation. Another example is an article by Professor Laidler, also taken from the National Westminster Bank 'Quarterly Review' of November 1972. Professor Laidler is a professor of economics at the Manchester University. In an article entitled 'The Current Inflation - Explanations and Policies', he said: 
The abnormally high inflation rate of recent years may be interpreted as resulting from a combination of 2 circumstances. First, there was the attempt of the American authorities to finance a war in Vietnam and a war on poverty while simultaneously cutting Federal tax rates and attempting to keep interest rates down. This led to a greatly increased rate of monetary expansion after 1966 and to a substantial increase in the world inflation rate, an increase which was bound to affect the British rate of inflation. 
He goes on to discuss devaluation in Britain. He also says in this article: 
Now if it is the case that the current inflation may be explained in the terms set out in this article it follows at once that explanations that look to purely domestic causes of inflation - I am thinking here in particular of those explanations that centre of tradeunion militancy - are quite simply too parochial in outlook and confuse the description  of  inflation with the analysis of its causes. Certainly there is ample room within the explanation I have advanced for trade unions to demand large increase in morey wages in a period in which large increases in prices are anticipated, and for employers to be willing to concede to such increases. I know of no evidence, however, that would compel disbelief in the assertions of trade union leaders that their 'militancy' in recent years has been the result of their desire to protect their members living standard against erosion by an inflationary process neither of their creation nor under their control.  1 do not make any further comments on that. There are 2 other articles to which I do not think I will have time to refer, although they are quite important. One is by William D. Nordhaus in Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, No. 2 of 1972. He studied inflation in 7 countries around the world and came to the same conclusion as Professor Johnson about the importance of inflation starting in the United States in 1966 due to the Vietnam war involvement and then spreading to other countries. An Australian study, which to my knowledge is not yet published, was made by 2 employees of the Australian Reserve Bank,  Mr Johnson  and  Mr Mahar.  Their article is entitled 'Earnings and Award Wages in Australia'. They in their conclusions said this: 
In an excellent study of the recent 'wage explosion' in 7 countries,  Nordhaus  concludes that the primary cause was the build-up of price expectations in the United States. This produced increased inflation rates in the United States and this has been transmitted to the rest of the world via the channels for the international spread of price and activity fluctuations mentioned above. Australia was not included in Nordhaus' study but our results support his conclusions. 
So, far from being discredited, the Johnson thesis is being endorsed by various economists around the world, including Australian economists. 
These articles all reject the union militancy hypothesis and point instead to the upsurge of world inflation initiated in the United States in the mid-1960s and being transmitted to countries all over the developed capitalist world by way of demand effects through the balance of payments and by way of direct and indirect price effects through imports particularly but also through exports. A number of conclusions flow from this analysis of Australian inflation to the context of world inflation. The first is that while that world inflation continues it will be immensely difficult, indeed impossible, to prevent inflation in Australia. We can only hope to lessen its impact. Secondly, in a situation of world inflation, the use of such draconian measures as penal clauses and unemployment to hamstring unions and control wages will not stop inflation because union militancy is not the uderlying cause of inflation. Thirdly when world prices are eccelerating the only way to stop a similar acceleration of domestic prices in a particular country is to take action which puts pressure on prices. Such pressure can be achieved in a number of ways. Firstly, it can be achieved by being prepared to appreciate the currency and balance of payments- 
Debate interrupted. 
When this debate was interrupted last night I was making the point that when world prices are accelerating the only realistic way to stop a similar acceleration of domestic prices in a particular country is to take action which puts a restraining pressure on prices. Such pressure can be achieved in a number of ways. Firstly, it can be achieved by appreciating our currency when our balance of payments position is very favourable. Such action reduces the price of imports on the local market and so helps to offset the most important way in which inflation is transmitted from overseas. The Reserve Bank of Australia in its last annual report recognised that this was the case, and of course one of the first acts of the Labor Government was to appreciate the Australian dollar. A second way is to put pressure on prices to ensure that the business environment is competitive, and it is the intention of the Government to change radically the Trade Practices Act to bring about this situation. Thirdly, we can eliminate unused tariff, and in this connection the Tariff Board is conducting a review of tariff levels to determine where excessive protection exists, but this unfortunately is a long term project and will take some time to conclude. 
Another way to put restraining pressure on prices is to do what this Bill is intended to do, that is, to establish price regulating machinery. In a situation of intensive world inflation such a method as this is essential if we are to protect ourselves against that inflation. In theory at least, revaluation should be an effective weapon in this regard, but other factors are involved as well in anti-inflation policy in determining the desirabiliy of revaluation; so its use is likely to be limited. Elimination of excess tariff and a removal of restrictive trade practices, though important, would have only a once and for all effect in combating a virulent world inflation. The only way to put a continuing and effective restraining pressure on prices is to establish a price regulating body such as the prices justification tribunal proposed in this Bill. Those who oppose such a measure should realise that what they are saying, in effect, is that Australia should simply inflate along with the general level of inflation in the rest of the world. 
I address my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for the Navy. Is he aware of a report in last Saturday's 'Australian' regarding the likely demise of the DDL program and the possible purchase of three American patrol frigates instead? Is he aware that this report has caused consternation in the Williamstown Naval Dockyard where the DDLs were to be constructed? Can he assure the House that whatever destroyer replacement is decided upon it will involve substantial construction at the Williamstown dockyard? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did a meeting of intelligence officers occur on Friday 13 October 1972 as reported in 'Nation Review' of 4 November 1972. 
If so, were any officers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization present at the meeting. 
I address a question to the Treasurer concerning the Prices Justification Tribunal. Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to a sample survey by final year students for the degree of master of business administration at Macquarie University, which survey revealed that only 28 per cent of firms covered by the Prices Justification Act intended to abide fully by the decisions of the Prices Justification Tribunal? In view of these findings, will the Treasurer consider  amending the Prices Justification Act so that, to use the eloquent words of United States Treasurer George Schultz: 'Anyone who does not comply voluntarily will get clobbered'? 
I rise to support the Budget. I do so at a stage of the debate at which most of the Opposition big guns have been fired. What a feeble barrage it has been. What small impact it may have had has been dependent on misstatements of facts relating to pensions and after-tax wage rises, on misuse and misrepresentation of economic analysis concerning the economic impact of a Budget and on a misguided refusal to look beyond Australia's shores for the principal causes of inflation in this country. 
In the course of my address I will be looking to each of these points. I will deal firstly with the Opposition's misstatements of fact. The principal example of these was the repeated insistence by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  that the 2 increases of $1.50 in the single age pension, which would increase it from $21.50 to $24.50 in this financial year, would represent an increase of 11.4 per cent. He then compared this with the projected 13 per cent increase in average weekly earnings in this financial year and concluded that pensions would fall behind earnings rather than begin to catch up with them. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  made much the same point but he said that the pension increase would be 11.5 per cent, compared with his Leader's 11.4 per cent. Both of them were quite wrong. An increase from $21.50 to $24.50 is a 14 per cent increase, not 11.4 per cent or 11.5 per cent, which puts the whole exercise in a different light. The true position is that pensions will rise faster in this year than the 13 per cent rise in average weekly earnings and so the various assertions by the Leader of the Opposition and his  Deputy  that pensions would fall behind earnings, that pensioners would be worse off and that Labor was not moving towards its objective of a pension rate of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings are all shown to be quite false. 
The Leader of the Opposition indulged in a couple of exercises designed to show that a wage earner with a wife and 2 children to support would be worse off, or at least no better off, in real terms in this financial year than he was last year.  His  calculations showed that despite a 13 per cent increase in earnings this year a man on $100 a week would have only a 10.2 per cent rise in his actual after-tax income. He then said this would be less than the price rise of 10.5 per cent that would follow from a rise in earnings of 13 per cent compared with a productivity increase of 2.5 per cent. The fact is that this exercise is quite misleading as a result of both the method of calculation used and the assumption on which it is based. The method of calculation ignores all tax deductions other than those for dependants, and if allowance is made for the quite substantial additional deductions the picture is considerably different. Allowing for other deductions equal to 10 per cent of gross income the real after-tax income of the man on $100 a week last year would increase by 10.7 per cent this year, not the 10.2 per cent arrived at by the Leader of the Opposition. This 10.7 per cent is slightly above the 10.5 per cent price rise he says will eventuate if earnings rise by 13 per cent and productivity by 2.5 per cent. 
But even here he has the arithmetic wrong. If, as he insists, the difference between the earnings increase of 13 per cent and the productivity increase of 2.5 per cent will be made up of a price rise, that price rise is 10.2 per cent, not 10.5 per cent. You do not deduct one from the other. It is a compound sum. If he wants to know the exact arithmetic it is 113 over 102.5 multiplied by 100 over 1. Thus the after-tax income rise is 10.7 per cent, not 10.2 per cent, and must be compared with a price rise of no more than 10.2 per cent, not 10.5 per cent. But even this 10.2 per cent price rise is probably too high. The Budget estimated a productivity rise of between 2.5 per cent and 3 per cent. The Leader of the Opposition used only the lower productivity figure so as to obtain a higher price rise. If productivity rose by 3 per cent the price rise on his assumption would be 9.7 per cent, so the actual after-tax income of the man on $100 a week would increase notably faster in this year than would prices, and he would in fact be better off, not in the same position as before, as the Leader of the Opposition would have us believe. 
However, this exercise was remarkable not only for its arithmetic inaccuracy but also for the assumption on which it was based. The suggestion by the Leader of the Opposition that a particular rate of wage increase and productivity increase implies a price rise to make up the difference indicates the adherence of the Opposition to that old shibboleth about the rate of inflation being determined by increases in wage costs. It probably never occurred to the Leader of the Opposition to consider what the position of the man on average weekly earnings would be if his wage rose by less than 13 per cent this financial year. In fact, as I will show later on, much of our inflation is determined by forces outside Australia and it does not follow, as the Leader of the Opposition implied, that with a lesser percentage increase in average weekly earnings the price rise would be correspondingly less. If earnings rose by less than 13 per cent the real after-tax position of wage earners would undoubtedly be less advantageous than will actually be the case. 
A keynote of the Opposition's attack in this debate has been that the Budget will be inflationary. The Leader of the Opposition set the pattern for this attack in his address, and to substantiate his claim he quoted a couple of sentences on page 10 of statement 2 of the Budget papers, from which he concluded: 
On the Treasury's own approach the Budget is therefore inflationary and expansionary - not neutral. 
In fact the Treasury made no statement in the Budget papers which indicated that that was its opinion. Indeed, in the same section of the Budget papers as that referred to by the Leader of the Opposition the Treasury gave quite a different impression. The first paragraph on page 11 of statement 2 of the Budget papers states: 
The' taxation measures proposed by the Government in the 1973-74 Budget have been formulated, for the most part, to steady the pace of growth of private sector activity, and thereby modify the pressure of total demands on available economic resources. Such a check now, designed to counter over-rapid expansion in a period of widespread economic recovery, would be generally seen as preferable to deferring action to a time when much stronger corrective measures would be required. 
This hardly seems to be saying that the Budget is inflationary or expansionary. Indeed, it says it is checking growth now rather than having to do it later on. Having falsely attempted to portray the Treasury as supporting his attitude, the Leader of the Opposition then sought to clinch his case by supposedly relying on the approach to budget analysis advocated by Professor J. W. Nevile in his book 'Fiscal Policy in Australia: Theory and Practice'. The Leader of the Opposition contended that if we take the increase in domestic outlay and subtract from it that increase in revenue which results from new tax proposals the resultant sum is a measure of the budget impact. He theft said that Professor Nevile 'measures the net stimulation of budgets by calculating budget impact in this way and relating the result in percentage terms to the gross non-farm product'. 
An analysis of Professor Nevile's book will reveal that he did not measure the net stimulation of Budgets in this way at all. What he did was to calculate the initial year multiplier for various classifications of government expenditure and the negative initial year multiplier of tax revenue resulting from increased rates of various taxes, and then apply the appropriate multipliers to the respective increases in government expenditures and tax revenues resulting from increased tax rates and relate the resultant sum to non-farm national product. The Leader of the Opposition has taken no account of Professor Nevile's multiplier analysis at all; so he cannot possibly be correct in his claim to be using the Professor's method. Obviously he has never read the book. 
But, not content with this substantial blunder, he then produced an even greater one. He went on to explain that Professor Nevile related his calculations of the money amount of Budget stimulus to non-farm gross product, and quoted Professor Nevile as saying: 'We can define any increase greater than  2.9  per cent as inflationary'. The Leader of the Opposition then declared that on this measure the Budget represents an increase of  4.2  per cent and is therefore one of the largest stimulants ever. However, what he in fact did to obtain this  4.2  per cent figure was to apply his incorrect calculations of the amount of Budget stimulus to the wrong figures for non-farm national product. He applied his Budget stimulus figure to the amount of gross non-faim product for  1972-73 -  the previous financial year - whereas what Professor Nevile did was to apply his calculated Budget stimulus to the figure for non-farm national product in the financial year covered by the Budget - not the previous year, as the Leader of the Opposition has done. 
Of course, the effect of using gross nonfarm product for  1972-73  rather than an estimated figure for non-farm national product for the current financial year, which he would have to do if he were using Professor Nevile's technique, is to overstate considerably the percentage that the Budget stimulus bears to nonfarm national product. Thus his calculations can be seen to be an awful mess and his comparison of the resultant  4.2  per cent figure with Professor Nevile's average figure of  2.9  per cent becomes utterly meaningless and tells us nothing whatever about the impact of this Budget on the economy. From what I have said to this point it is clear that the attempt by the Leader of the Opposition to show that this Budget is inflationary, by supposedly using Professor Nevile's technique, is an absolute shambles. There are in fact other deficiencies in his calculations, but I do not think it is necessary to deal with them. He has clearly not used Professor Nevile's technique in any essential respect, and the House should completely reject his calculations and the conclusions that flow from them. 
Even if he had followed Professor Nevile's technique exactly, he would have found that there were numerous economists Who would not have agreed with him that that was the correct approach to measuring Budget stimulus. The fact is that this is one of the most difficult and contentious areas in a notoriously inexact science. For instance, some economists would argue - correctly so, in my opinion - that the increase in average income tax rates which occurs as incomes increase in the face of a progressive tax schedule is just as relevant to the question of Budget impact as an increase in .the schedule of income tax rates. There is no generally accepted measure of Budget impact, and different economists have different notions of how to go about measuring it. 
In this debate the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  referred to an alternative measure of Budget impact, which is to relate the Budget deficit to total Budget receipts. However, he tried to make out that such an analysis showed this Budget to be inflationary by comparing the percentage that the deficit bears to receipts in this year with that for the years  1969-70  and  1970-71.  He neglected to mention, though, that in those  2  years the ratio was quite unusually low.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the ratio of Budget deficit to total receipts for a period of years. 
The Opposition has made a lot of noise in this debate and in previous debates about inflation in Australia. In the next day or so we shall see just how sincere members opposite are in their desire to prevent or at least restrict the rate of increasing inflation in this country. I refer, of course, to the problems of meat prices. It is not for me to canvass the report of the Joint Committee on Prices relating to meat. As everyone knows, that Committee will make its report some time this week. That report will recommend some kind of action to be taken in regard to meat prices which are particularly important in the present inflationary situation. In the last quarter - the June quarter - two-fifths of the increase in prices was due solely to increases in the price of meat. What did that have to do with the Government's fiscal policy? Absolutely nothing. If we look at the kind of increases that have been occurring for different categories of meat we see that those increases have been staggering in the last 6 months or so. In the March quarter of this year mutton prices increased by 26 per cent, lamb by 17.8 per cent and beef by 8 per cent. In the June quarter, mutton increased a further 28.8 per cent, lamb 12.9 per cent and beef 9.3 per cent. Altogether meat prices increased by 11 per cent in the June quarter. These increases have been tremendously important facets in the inflationary situation which confronts us now. If the Opposition is really sincere in its desire to restrict inflation in Australia it will have its opportunity later this week when the report of the Joint Committee on Prices is before the House. 
In this discussion of inflation a great deal of noise has been made by the Opposition about the Budget and the supposed irresponsibility of the Budget. During the Budget debate I referred to the analysis of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  relating to the supposed inflationary nature of the Budget. Of course the Leader of the Opposition made liberal use of a supposed analysis of Professor Neville in a book 'Fiscal Policy in Australia' to analyse how we should discuss whether the Budget was inflationary. As I pointed out in that debate, the Leader of the Opposition completely messed up the analysis of Professor Neville. He had the wrong figures applied all over the place and his whole exercise was absolutely laughable. It was a schoolboy effort and not at matriculation level but at sixth grade level. Since that debate I have received an article from Professor Neville - the same Professor Neville used quite wrongly by the Opposition to show that the Budget was inflationary. This article, written by Professor Neville, is for publication in 'The Banker' of October this year. The article is headed 'Budget Strategy and Inflation in Australia'. It analyses the Budget and examines whether it is inflationary. I refer to the conclusion that Professor Neville reaches in this article. He states: 
In summary the Budget will do little to increase inflation, but neither will it do much to restrain it. This is the correct strategy. A strongly deflationary Budget probably would have killed the investment boom in its infancy and prevented the return to full employment. However the Budget does make likely a continued tightening of monetary policy. 
It is quite obvious that if the Leader of the Opposition had correctly applied the analysis of Professor Neville he would have reached an entirely different conclusion from that which he, in fact, reached when he made his speech on the Budget, as I have now shown by reference to this article. The same person relied on by the Leader of the Opposition says that the Budget is not inflationary but that it is the right and correct approach. Let us get a few things straight about whether this Budget is inflationary. If the Opposition did its homework properly it would have an entirely different line of argument in relation to the Budget. The conclusion which I read from Professor Neville referred to monetary policy. Of course, that article was written before the latest measures by this Government in relation to monetary policy, and I will say a few more things about that once I get through one other item. 
I turn now to economic philosophy. The Opposition, when it members were in Government, showed its desire to dampen down inflation by creating unemployment, It was quite prepared to do that, as it did in 1971  -  the most notable occasion in the recent past - and as previous governments have done in the last 20 years. This Government rejects that philosophy. It has greatly improved the employment situation since it has been in office, and it will not have a bar of fiscal policies which would create unemployment as a means of preventing inflation. 
The Government recognises the importance of overseas factors in our inflationary situation, as do many economists throughout the world. In the last couple of years there has been a growing realisation that overseas factors are very important in the inflationary processes, in some countries in particular. Australia is one of those countries which are particularly affected by overseas influence in relation to inflation. One noted economist who has recognised the importance of international factors is Professor Galbraith. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who raised the matter of public importance that we are now discussing, in his speech on the Budget and as a backup for his argument relied on Professor Galbraith who says that international factors are very important in relation to inflation, particularly for countries like Australia. That same point was made by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in the July edition of its publication 'Economic Outlook'. In a section headed 'International '- Transmission of Inflation' it says: 'Australia is comparatively heavily exposed to international inflation.' The Opposition apparently takes no account whatever of these international factors. Honourable members opposite beat the drum about inflation but they say nothing about what they know to be the case, that these overseas factors are very important. 
Of course, the Government has taken all measures that it should take to offset the influence of overseas inflationary factors. It has revalued twice. It has cut tariffs by 25 per cent. It has restricted capital inflow significantly. It has shown an inclination to adopt some form of price control. That is the correct approach and the approach recommended by the OECD in the article to which I have referred. That organisation also recommends the use of export taxes. The Government has not done that yet. The Government's action represents proper management of the economy, which is what this debate is about. The matter of public importance refers to the Government's having failed .to manage the economy properly. The Government has taken all kinds of actions, recommended by the OEOD - apart from those relating to export taxes - to offset the overseas inflationary factors. 
Also the Government has acted to reduce the monetary supply. The previous Government was irresponsible in its monetary policy. As was pointed out by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  it let the money supply increase by 17 per cent in the last 6 months of 1972. That is an extraordinarily high increase for which the present Government cannot be held accountable. It is something that the previous Government let happen. It occurred largely because the previous Government placed no controls, or nowhere near the right controls, on capital inflows. When the present Government came to office it put controls on capital inflow and to a marked extent stopped the buildup from that source. The revaluation and tariff cuts also helped to prevent the building up of overseas reserves which add to the money supply in this country. The Government has taken all the right kinds of decisions in relation to the monetary supply and in relation to offsetting overseas factors. 
As I have mentioned, in relation to the monetary supply the Government has taken measures in relation to revaluation and tariffs. It also called up statutory reserve deposits in April this year and twice in August this year. The latest measures which have been taken will result in some rise in interest rates, but all this is necessary to reduce the growth of the money supply. If it were not done, we would have more rapid inflation in this country than would otherwise be the case, and the Opposition would be berating us for not taking appropriate measures. We have taken all the kinds of measures which are recommended by the OECD and by sensible economists at the moment. We have shown that the Budget is not inflationary, that it is the kind of Budget which is compatible with a realistic policy in relation to full employment and not imposing a -high rate of inflation. The Opposition's condemnation of the Government for its failure to exercise proper management of the economy is ludicrous and' should be seen as such. 
As my contribution to country hour, I wish to draw the attention of the House to an important matter which has occupied considerable public attention in recent days. It is the matter of the relative shares of wages and profits in the proceeds of production. This is a matter which periodically has been at issue in public forums for many years, particularly in major wage cases before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and its predecessor, the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. Unions and employers have quarrelled over the proper basis of measurement of relative shares. 
One method that often has been used by employers to analyse shares is to calculate the percentage that wages and salaries represent of the gross national product or gross domestic product and to draw conclusions from the resultant figures. If the GDP used is the 
GDP at market prices, then the non-wage element will include an important proportion in the form of indirect taxes, and they are not gross profits. Thus, if we are interested in the break-up between wages and salaries on the one hand and gross profits on the other, we have to take the gross national product at factor cost, rather than at market prices, so as to exclude indirect taxes. But even then the non-wage and salary element in the grow national product at factor cost includes various elements which must be excluded if we want to analyse the break-up between wages and salaries on the one hand and profits on the other. If these items are not excluded, then looking at wages and salaries as a share of gross domestic product, whether at market prices or factor cost, does not tell us anything meaningful about the break-up between wages and profits. 
What we must do is confine ourselves to those sectors of the economy in which there is a distribution of the gross product between wages and salaries on the one hand and gross profits on the other. This means that we must exclude a few sectors of the economy in which no such distribution occurs, either because the gross product is comprised wholly or almost wholly on wages and salaries or because it is all gross profit. The importance of doing this was recognised several years ago by a well known economist,  Dr A.  R. Hall of the Australian National University, who on this matter of relative income shares said in an article in the 'Financial Review' on 9 June 1966: 
If one is concerned with stability of distributive shares, then surely the examination of evidence should be limited to data in which the possibility of variation in proportion exists. 
The validity of this point also has been accepted by various other economists, including Professor Nevile of the University of New South Wales, who has been quoted with approbation recently in this House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  On this basis, therefore, there are 3 sectors of the economy that should be excluded. These are all sectors used by the Commonwealth Statistician in the national national accounts. They are public administration and defence, community and business services, and ownership of dwellings. 
Public administration and defence should be excluded because none of the product of this sector is sold on the market and the Commonwealth Statistician values the gross pro duct of this sector at the value of wages and salaries paid. There is no break-up between wages and salaries and profits; so that sector must be excluded. Much the same goes for the sector of community and business services. Here the overwhelming part of the gross product is comprised of wages and salaries paid to government employees in such areas as education, health, law, welfare and so on. Again the gross product of this government area is not sold on the market. There is no break-up between wages and salaries and profits; so this sector, which is mainly governmental, should be excluded. 
Another sector that has no breakup between wages and salaries and profits is the sector titled 'ownership of dwellings'. The gross product of this sector is an imputed rent calculated by the Commonwealth Statistician as the value of the service that owners of dwellings receive from their homes. There is no wages and salaries element, so this sector too should be excluded. One other sector that unfortunately has to be excluded because of the way the statistics are compiled is the sector of finance and property. Here the difficulty is that the statistical series only goes back in a comparable fashion to the year 1959-60, and it one wants to look at the trend earlier than that - and it is important to do so because of the very restrictive wages policy operated by the Arbitration Court and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the 1950s - this sector has to be excluded. 
This leaves the sectors of primary production; mining and quarrying; manufacturing; building and construction; transport and communication; commerce; electricity, gas and water supply; and the category of all other industries. In all these sectors there is a distribution of the gross product through wages and salaries and through gross profits, so it is thoroughly appropriate to analyse trends in the distribution of these sectors. However, if the figures are to be really meaningful they have to be statistically adjusted and weighed. The statistical adjustment is necessary to correct for the bias that would arise if wage and salary earners become a greater or lesser share of the total number of employed persons in the economy. Wage and salary earners have in fact become a continuously larger share of the total of employed persons due to small businessmen and small farmers being eased out of business and becoming wage and salary earners. Thus if no adjustment for this factor was made the wage and salary earners share could increase simply because they were a continuously larger sector of the work force and not because individual wage and salary earners were getting any greater share of the proceeds of production. 
The statistical weighting is necessary - as recongised by Professor Neville - to overcome the bias that can occur through differential industry sector growth. Thus if we had a 2-sector economy, one sector distributing its gross product mainly in the form of wages and one sector distributing its gross product mainly in the form of profits, and if the gross product of the first sector was growing faster than the gross product of the second sector, the wages share in the total gross product would increase continually without any alteration of shares within the sectors. Alternatively, the same could happen to the profits if the second sector were the fastest growing sector. To eliminate the possibility of such bias it is necessary to weigh the sectors according to their relative importance at one point - preferably a mid-point of the period being analysed - and so maintained this relativity for all years in this period. 
When these proper and indeed essential procedures are followed, the resultant picture is one which shows a marked downward trend in the wages and salaries share of gross product. Although the decline does not occur every year, it is more or less continuous and shows a decline from a range of 75 per cent to 79 per cent in the late 1940s and early 1950s to a range of 66 per cent to 69 per cent in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The exact figures were tabled earlier today by the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  If one calculates a proper statistical trend in those figures - that is, an exceptional trend - 'the trend co-efficient is found to be minus 0.46 per cent per annum. That is to say, over that period of 23 years from 1948-49 to 1970-71 - and this is on the latest available figures - which period apart from the first year and a half, was a period of LiberalCountry Party government, in those sectors of the economy where there is a breakup between wages and profits the average drop in wages and salaries share was almost half of one per cent per annum. Correspondingly, of course, gross profits took up that reduced share going to wages and salaries. The fact is that when properly analysed the share of wages and salaries has declined markedly and those who suggest otherwise are either being naive or endeavouring to mislead the public. 
It is interesting indeed to hear the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  refer to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 as being a giant step towards socialism. One might ask who took the first step. The. Corporation was, of course, introduced by the previous Government in 1970. If this is a giant step towards socialism, who will direct this giant step? If one examines the Director's report of the Corporation for the year ended June 1972 one finds on the Board of Directors such people as  Sir Colin  York Syme, the previous  Chairman  of the Board of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd;  Sir Charles  McGrath of Repco Ltd;  Mr W.  M. Leonard of Ampol Petroleum Ltd, and others of equal stature in the business world. These are the people who the Leader of the Australian Country Party says will lead Australia in a giant step towards socialism. This Bill has many advantages for the people of Australia but it is certainly a wild-eyed kind of accusation for the Leader of the Country Party to say that this Bill is a giant step towards socialism. 
The Bill certainly will have benefits in that it will encourage the development of industry in Australia in a desirable way and it will certainly assist in the attainment of a greater proportion of Australian ownership of our means of production. The previous Government was in favour of both of those aims when it introduced the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill in 1970 establishing that organisation. I should like to spend a couple of moments discussing the way in which the Corporation came into being. As I said, it was established in 1970. The idea was first floated, I understand, as early as 1963 by  Sir John  McEwen, then Leader of the Australian Country Party. He put a proposal to Cabinet concerning the AIDC in 1966. At that stage he could not convince the then Treasurer, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  that it was a worthwhile project. The right honourable member for Lowe, in his capacity as Treasurer at that time, then set about establishing a rival body which became the Australian Resources Development Bank. The Bank was eventually established in 1967. It was much narrower in concept than was the AIDC. Later in 1970,  Sir John  McEwen again floated the idea of the establishment of the AIDC and, at that stage, he had a receptive Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who was enthusiastic about the idea. Together they convinced the then Government that this should be gone ahead with and the Australian Industries Development Corporation was established even though the ARDB existed and had been operating for 3 years. There was a difference in concept between the ARDB and the AIDC. When the AIDC was established it was said by many people to be simply duplicating the role of the ARDB. An article in Weekend Business Review' on 29 May 1970 by  Dr Mark  Doctoroff, a lecturer in economics at Monash University, pointed out the difference. It read: 
It appears that the prime purpose underlying  Mr McEwen's  bill is to provide an additional source of financing and supplement the services offered by the banks. This is clearly an attempt to cater to the changing needs and requirements of expanding enterprises. The critics probably feel that existing financial institutions adequately and competently serve their market. If this is so then the AIDC - if it becomes a reality - will not be approached by enterprises wanting funds. Hence the banks and the ARDB will have little to worry about! If the AIDC is approached by many enterprises then it will contribute to the expansion of the economy which surely is in the interests of the banks and the ARDB. 
The AIDC was established in 1970. It is an organisation which has assisted many enterprises which have found that other institutions did not cater for their needs. Many businesses have been grateful for assistance from the AIDC. One such organisation to which I shall quickly refer is Bursill Engineering Pty Ltd. On 14 December 1972 in an article in the Australian' the managing director pointed out that the AIDC had greatly assisted his company to become a successful exporter. The article stated: 

 Mr Don Bursill, Managing Director of the company, believes AIDC involvement with his firm has advantages beyond the simple provision of capital. 
We find that potential buyers overseas are increasingly recognising an  IADC  company' as a sound operation; one with which they can do business confidently'. . . . 
The AIDC's reputation on world capital markets is good. At the end of last year it had raised 50m Deutsche marks, or $13m, in its first public bond issues overseas. Another indication of AIDC's reputation in Australia is that an advertisement for 3 project officers earlier this year brought 250 applications. So the AIDC has a good reputation overseas and within Australian business areas and the community generally. Although the AIDC was established and has been successful there was great contention within the then Government about the introduction of the Bill in 1970. I am grateful to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  for the information contained in an article in the 'Australian' a few days ago. He said that when the Bill was introduced in 1970 the 2 members of the Liberal Party who wanted to speak against it were struck off the list of speakers by  Sir John  McEwen. Nevertheless, the establishment of the AIDC has been very beneficial although the Opposition, then the Government was so divided on it when it was established. 
Our proposal is to expand AIDC's role to enable it to carry out its function on a much wider scale. If the Opposition is in favour of industrial development and a greater measure of Australian ownership of industry it should certainly support this Bill. The Bill establishes 3 separate but inter-related compartments. There is, firstly, the existing AIDC which will continue to finance industrial development projects. Secondly, there is the National Interest Division which will finance activities which the Government wishes to sponsor in the national interest. Thirdly, there is the National Investment Fund which will be a general investment fund through which the ordinary people of Australia will be able to invest in Australian industry. The latter 2 parts are new creations of this Bill. The National Interest Division will assist the development of industry in ways which are not possible at present. These projects could be vast development schemes such as enriching uranium, or relatively minor matters such as assisting farmers to develop a processing co-operative. The National Interest Division will be financed by Government money or by AIDC, money which will be guaranteed by the Government. It is appropriate that in this section of its activities the AIDC should not use its own general funds without Government guarantee. This is because these' projects will be either vast projects requiring funds on a scale that the AIDC could not cope with from its own resources or projects which are risky commercial propositions but nevertheless of considerable national interest. 
Of course, it is not a simple matter to determine what should or should not be supported, so accordingly there is provision for a national interest committee to be established to advise the Government on decisions to give support in such cases. This committee will not have an easy task and it could be said that there is a danger that the Government will be squandering money on hairy projects. However, in practice it is quite unlikely that this will happen. The procedure will be that where a matter of national interest is brought to the Government's attention, the Government can ask the AIDC to look at it and evaluate its commercial prospects. If it approves the project as one it would normally take on, it will go ahead with it. If, however, the AIDC decides it is too risky, the Government can call for a detailed report on it, have it evaluated by the national interest committee and, if the committee approves of it, either the AIDC will take it on with a Government guarantee on the funds employed or the Government will provide the funds. Thus any losses on national interest projects will be carried by the Government and not by the AIDC. 
It is important, of course, that this division does not become a vast sinking hole for taxpayers' money. The evaluation procedures of the AIDC, with its considerable commercial experience, and the national interest committee should certainly ensure that projects entered into have been properly evaluated and their potential benefit to the nation weighed along with the prospects of commercial success. It is worthy of note that the national interest fund will be subject to audit by the AuditorGeneral. The AIDC when established by the previous Government was not subject to this. It could be argued that it is right and appropriate that it should not be subject to audit by the Auditor-General, but the National Interest Fund which will be operating on Government funds or Government guaranteed funds will be subject to audit by the Auditor-General. The National Investment Fund will be an assembly of separate funds called divisions. It will be financed solely by private funds. Those who contribute to a division will receive the benefits of ownership in the industry investments of that division. They will share the incomes, profits and capital gains. At present the AIDC gathers funds from overseas for investment in Australia. It can also on a limited basis raise funds in Australia with Reserve Bank approval. This will now be expanded to enable the AIDC to raise funds from overseas, as now, and also from local equity raisings from companies, life and pension funds and private investors. Those private investors could be ordinary people who want a convenient means of keeping their savings in a way that will keep pace with inflation, or they could be workers who want to contribute small amounts regularly out of their wages, retired persons looking mainly for the best income from their savings, younger people wanting capital growth, or private investors who currently buy stocks and shares. 
There will also be a special kind of division of the Fund which will cater for participation by foreign-owned companies in the beneficial ownership but not control of Australian enterprises. The advantage of this arrangement will be particularly evident in resource development where foreign companies are interested in investing funds in order to have a connection with the sources of supply of raw materials. They could have such an arrangement through the Fund but they would have no say in the voting control of the project. To encourage domestic investment in the National Investment Fund there will be divisions containing savings plans similar to superannuataion and development insurance schemes and contributions to those divisions will be tax deductible within the $1,200 deduction now allowed for payment to superannuation and insurance. This should help to generate additional savings in the community and put them to a use which will be in the national interest. 
Savings should be encouraged also by investment bonds. Subscriptions to them will not be tax deductible, but the Government will contribute $10 to the fund for every $100 invested in the bonds by individual residents of Australia. The extra income and capital growth from this Government contribution will flow to the individual investor and the Government's contribution will be returned to it when the bonds are redeemed. In addition, the 30/20 rule will be altered. As it stands now, life insurance companies receive special concessions by investing 30 per cent of their money in government securities. At least 20 per cent of it is in Commonwealth securities. This provision will now be altered to a 40 per cent requirement and the AIDC will qualify as a government agency which will be eligible for investment under that rule. 
Whether this scheme is a success or not will depend on how the Australian people receive it. They have shown in public opinion polls that they are worried by the lack of Australian ownership of our industries. Various public opinion polls have pointed to the substantia] desire of people to have more say in the ownership of Australian industries. This Bill enables the Australian people to have a means of investment in Australian industries. This means of investment is not open to them at the moment. We hope therefore that they will be greatly encouraged by the passage of this Bill and by the widening of the powers of the AIDC. We hope also that they will invest their money in it and so ensure the success of the operation. I have referred already to those who say that this is a giant step towards socialism. This giant step will depend on what the people say. It will be a giant step, yes, if the people of Australia support this proposal. I say it will be a giant step towards the development of industry in an appropriate way and also towards greater Australian ownership. But this will be so only if the people of Australia support our action. 
In opposing this Bill, the Opposition is denying to the Australian people a means not available to them at the moment to have a greater say in the ownership of Australian industry and also to enable the small investor to obtain capital growth and to share in the capital gains of our society. At the moment most of the shares held by people in this country are owned by a relatively small proportion of the population. The ordinary wage and salary earner does not own shares to any great extent and most of them own no shares at all. So, these people are denied this means of sharing in capital growth and the capita] gains which flow to a small proportion of the population. As a result of the widening of the powers of the Corporation, the Australian people will be able to obtain such capital growth and, at the same time, help to develop secondary industry in this country. They will be able to invest their money knowing that the development of industry in Australia will be carried out in a way which will bear in mind the national interest. 
It does not follow that the more profitable investment is the one which is most in the national interest. One cannot deny the relevance of the efficiency and the profitability of various enterprises. But it does not necessarily follow that because these enterprises are the more profitable, therefore these are the ones which are most in the national interest. It may be that, in some cases, other capital should be diverted to projects which, although not so profitable, are greatly in the national interest. This Bill enables that process to be carried out by the AIDC. I commend the Bill to the House. I hope that the Australian people will support it when it is enacted. If they do, Australia will be a better country. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs, I address myself in particular to the question of foreign aid. This is an area of Government activity which is of increasing importance. It is, indeed, appropriate that that should be the case. The need of the developing countries for aid and assistance from the developed countries is certainly no less today than it was a decade ago. Indeed, it could be said to be greater. Yet real per capita aid to these developing countries is declining rather than increasing. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, in the area of official - that is, government - aid by developed countries in the last decade the level of real per capita aid to the developing countries has fallen by 10 per cent. One specific example of that which has direct relevance to the current state of international affairs concerns aid to Palestinian refugees, of whom there are about one million living in United Nations refugee camps. They are currently subsidised at the rate of 5c a day, which is half of what the aid was in 1964 in money terms, with no allowance for any decrease in the purchasing power in the intervening period. 
At the same time as aid to developing countries is declining on a real per capita basis the gap between the haves and the have nots remain enormous and is in fact becoming much more extreme. The enormity of the gap is shown, by the fact that at the end of the United Nations first development decade - that of the 1960s - there were more than 50 countries with a gross national product per capita of less than US$200. Those countries contain 60 per cent of the world's population. On the other hand there were 26 countries with a gross national product per capita above US$1,000, but they contained only 25 per cent of the world's population. Australia's gross national product per capita at US$2,300 was the sixth highest in the world. 
The growing disparity between rich and poor is shown by the fact that throughout the first development decade the total world gross national product increased by the almost incomprehensible sum of US$1, 100,000m. Of that enormous sum 80 per cent went to countries in which the per capita gross national product is already above US$1,000, that is, it went to 25 per cent of the world's population. Only a mere 6 per cent of that increase in the world's gross national product went to the countries in which the per capita gross national product was US$200 or less, that is, to 60 per cent of the world's population. Thus the countries with the richest 25 per cent of the world's population received 80 per cent of the increase whilst the poorest countries with 60 per cent of the world's population received only 6 per cent of the world's increased income. 
Deplorably, the situation will not be any different in the second development decade, that of the 1970s. The World Bank estimates that in the second development decade those 26 countries will again take 80 per cent of the total increase in the world's income. These figures provide irrefutable evidence of the need for a much greater effort to be made by the developed countries to assist the rest of the world if this trend to growing inequality is to be arrested in any way. But unfortunately it is highly unlikely that much of an effort will be made. The developed countries of the world have shown a marked reluctance to provide even that level of assistance which is necessary to achieve the very limited objectives of the second development decade. 
The international development strategy of the United Nations set a target for developed countries which provided for each such country's official aid to reach 0.7 per cent of its gross national product by 1975. This was considered to be essential if the growth rate objective of 6 per cent per annum for developing countries was to be reached in the second development decade. However, the 16 countries which form the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD - a Committee which is comprised of nearly all of the world's most developed countries - had reached an average level of official aid of only 0.34 per cent of their gross national product by the year 1972, that is to say, they were at only half the level which was being aimed for in 1975. I am pleased to say that Australia's figure was 0.61 per cent, a figure which was exceeded by only 3 other countries. Even more disturbing in relation to the general position is that by 1975, it has been estimated by the OECD, only 5 countries will have achieved the UN objective for all developed countries. They are Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and Portugal. Denmark hopes to reach this figure shortly afterwards, as does New Zealand, which recently joined the OECD and announced its intention to raise its official development assistance to 0.7 per cent by the financial year 1975-76. I regret that unless present indications change Australia will not reach this objective until 1979 or 1980. 
On 24 May this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that the Government was working towards an official aid target of 0.7 per cent of its gross national product by the end of the decade. Although this means that we would achieve the objective by the end of the second development decade it still does not fully comply with the United Nations objective, which sets 1975 as the target year for this level of assistance. To my mind it is of great importance that Australia becomes one of the countries which will achieve the target in 1975  -  not that that achievement will of itself make a great difference to the conditions of the developing countries as we are a relatively small country and our official development assistance is already near 0.7 per cent. However, it will set an example and place us in a position to castigate others who are reluctant to meet their reasonable obligations. 
Chief among these are West Germany, Japan and the United States of America, all of which have a very large gross national product by world standards but which are allocating miserable proportions of it to official development assistance. Last year Germany allocated 0.31 per cent of its gross national product to this activity, Japan 0.21 per cent and the United 
States 0.29 per cent. Thus they are all below average. Certainly Germany and Japan cannot claim any balance of payments problem as a reason for their poor performance. The United States does have a balance of payments problem but, because of the tremendous size of its gross national product, there is no hope of the United Nations target being anywhere near achieved unless the United States is prepared to arrange its affairs so that it does provide 0.7 per cent of its gross national product as official development assistance. 
The critical importance of the United States in this respect is shown by the OECD's comment that the average of 0.34 per cent for Development Assistance Committee countries in 1972 is unlikely to improve over the next few years, despite increased percentages by a number of countries. This, the 'OECD Observer' of August 1973 states, is largely owing to the lower disbursements that can be forecast for the United States'. I strongly urge the Government at least to adhere to the United Nations target and then to use its influence on other developed countries, particularly the United States, to make some effort to reach the 0.7 per cent in the not too distant future. Unless we announce our intention to abide by that target we will be in no position to point the finger at anyone else. 
There are a couple of other matters to which I would have liked to refer, but, in view of the time available to me, I must content myself with referring to only one of those items. I would like to congratulate the Government on the excellent action it has taken in establishing a task force early this year to review our official foreign aid program. Following the receipt of the task force report, the Government has announced that it will establish an Australian development assistance agency which will gather up all our aid sections currently scattered through various departments and place them under a senior official, responsible only to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is surely imperative to ensure that our aid is efficiently utilised, particularly as 93 per cent of our aid is bilateral aid and therefore is not supervised by any outside expert agency as is the case with multi-lateral aid. One of the advantages of establishing an Australian development assistance agency in that our aid will be clearly administered in a more efficient manner than is currently possible with bits and pieces being scattered through various departments. It is also pleasing to note that the Government intends the agency to have a research and economic team, part of whose role will be to check that aid programs are working and that money and time has not been wasted. With the coming of self-government in Papua New Guinea and our continuing commitment to maintain substantial aid to that country, it is essential that our aid programs are rationally determined and efficiently administered. I agree with the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  in his opening remarks when he said that the total amount of aid as a proportion of gross national product is not the sole determinant of a country's criterion for efficient use of its aid. It should also be supervised and administered in such a way that the aid is seen to be going to the best advantage of the recipient countries. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  gave his usual entertaining address and I should like to refer to one point which he made. After he had returned from an analysis of ancient history he referred at some length to the fact that this legislation before the House was in some way deficient because it did not, he said, define the qualifications of members of the Trade Practices Commission. I should like to remind the honourable gentleman that in the current Trade Practices Act, the most important man in the legislation is the Commissioner of Trade Practices and I cannot find set out anywhere in that Act the qualifications of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. From what I say later, the extreme importance of that one person to the existing Act will be seen. 
The importance of the Bill now before the House is that when it is passed by the Parliament this country will have in operation a legal apparatus that will effectively control for the first time restrictive trade practices of corporations in this country. The fact is that the current Act which this Bill will replace is hopelessly inadequate and utterly incapable of providing a competitive business environment in this country for many years hence, if indeed it would ever achieve that objective. That this is the case is not a matter for mere assertion by myself or by the Government. It has been stated by the Commissioner of Trade Practices in his 1971 annual report in which he said that progress in dealing with anti-competitive agreements and practices needed to be accelerated, otherwise the legislation would take many years to produce a general impact against restriction of competition and in favour of competitive attitudes. 
Some further evidence as to progress or the lack of it is also given by the number of examinable agreements that are registered with the Commissioner's office over a period. In his first annual report in 1968 the Commissioner gave this number as 10,841. In his latest annual report which is for this year the number of those agreements is shown as 12,360, that is, in that 5-year period the number of registered examinable agreements has not been diminished at all but has in fact increased by approximately 1,500. The current Trade Practices Act is with the exception of its collusive tendering and bidding and resale price maintenance provisions, little more than a pretence to provide real competition in the business community. It is the result of an inglorious capitulation by the previous Government to the pressures and persuasions of the business community whose interests it was basically concerned to represent. Early in the 1960s the then Attorney-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, put forward proposals for the control of restrictive practices in this country which were long overdue as he himself acknowledged. At page 13 of his G. L. Wood memorial lecture in 1963,  Sir Garfield  Barwick said: 
All the western world has legislation to deal with restrictive practices; there is no novelty in Australia having such legislation; the oddity is that it has not. 
The proposals put forward by the then Attorney-General, although not as comprehensive or thorough going as the situation required, nevertheless would have had a marked effect on the degree of business competition. However, they never came into operation because when the business community protested vigorously about these proposed infringements of their assumed rights to combine against the interests of the public, the then Government scrapped its original proposals. It substituted instead a weak and emasculated Bill that virtually amounted to a fraud and deception on the Australian people in that it gave the impression of controlling trade practices but in fact did precious little about them. It is indeed appropriate that the Minister who had the responsibility for putting that cosmetic legislation before the House in 1965 was the then Attorney-General who is now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in this House, which Opposition is again demonstrating its concern for the consuming public by attempting to delay legislation that will effectively and speedily eliminate the multitude of restrictive trade practices that currently impede competition in the business world. 
May I briefly refer to various ways in which the Snedden legislation of 1965 watered down the original Barwick proposals. It had been proposed in the Barwick legislation that 4 practices be completely prohibited. These were collusive tendering, collusive bidding, persistent price cutting at a loss to drive a competitor out of business and the use of monopoly power to disadvantage competitors or consumers. The Snedden legislation prohibited only the first two of those practices and even left a loophole for them. The other 2 practices became examinable practices and indulgence in them was not illegal until declared to be so by the Trade Practices Tribunal on investigation of a particular case. The Barwick proposals included as examinable practices the practice of resale price maintenance. This was one of the practices most strongly defended by the business community, so it was no surprise that it was not included in the Snedden legislation. Subsequently, of course, that practice was covered after the previous Government was forced to take action in 1971 following the exposure of this practice by the Australian Council of Trade Unions through Bourke's store in Melbourne. 

 Sir Garfield Barwick also proposed to cover mergers and takeovers but that also was missing when the Snedden legislation saw the light of day. Originally it had been proposed that the register of agreements would be open for inspection by persons with sufficient economic interest, but the Snedden legislation provided that the register would be completely secret. There are many other respects in which the legislation brought forward in 1965 by the now Leader of the Opposition was notably weaker than the measures originally proposed but those I have mentioned are sufficient to illustrate the point. The fact is that the present Act is woefully inadequate to achieve its supposed objective of providing a more competitive environment and that inadequacy is directly attributable to the previous Government's unwillingness to upset its big business friends. 
Apart from the ineffectual cover or exclusion of various practices that I have mentioned, the current Trade Practices Act is deficient chiefly for the reason that its procedures are so cumbersome and slow that it is difficult for the Commissioner of Trade Practices to make any headway at all. If we consider the functions of the Commissioner of 
Trade Practices we can readily see how extraordinarily cumbersome the procedure is. The Commissioner must keep a register of trade agreements and registration of examinable agreements, as laid down in the Act, is compulsory. As I have mentioned, there are over 12,000 such agreements registered at present. When an agreement is first registered, the Commissioner has to consider whether it is an examinable agreement under the Act and, having determined that, he has then to consider whether it is contrary to the public interest. If he finds it is contrary to the public interest, he then consults with the parties involved to see whether they will abandon the agreement and if they refuse to abandon it the Commissioner may then institute proceedings in the Trade Practices Tribunal. Of course, apart from the agreements, there are also examinable practices, such as monopolisation, and although these are not registered they are subject to a similar procedure to that followed by the Commissioner in relation to agreements. Then, once the agreement or practice is taken by the Commissioner to the tribunal, that body must again consider whether it is examinable and whether it is contrary to the public interest. If it finds the agreement or practice to be so examinable and to be so contrary to the public interest, it may order the parties involved to desist and cease that agreement or practice. Then, if the order is not complied with, a breach of the law occurs which can be enforced in the Commonwealth Industrial Court, soon to be known, I understand, as the Australian Industrial Court. 
With such an incredibly complex and unwieldy procedure, is it any wonder that so little progress has been made in this area of affairs? The presumption of such legislation quite clearly is that restrictive trade practices, other than collusive tendering, collusive bidding and resale price maintenance, are not against the public interest until proven to be so in a case by case analysis. Such a presumption just simply does not accord with the facts. In his latest annual report the Commissioner of Trade Practices said at page 4: 
From what the Tribunal has said, and from my own knowledge of price agreements, I think they are very unlikely to be consistent with the public interest. It seems to me that the dominant reasons for joining in a price agreement are to remove the uncertainty of the market place and to keep prices higher than they would be without agreement. 
Here we have the Commissioner of Trade Practices - and presumably he is in a better position to know than anyone else in Australia - saying that price agreements are very unlikely to be consistent with the public interest. Yet the current Act is drawn in such a way that every such agreement is presumed to be consistent with the public interest unless shown otherwise after a detailed investigation by the Tribunal. In this connection also it is absurd that the Commissioner has the obligation on him to prove before the Tribunal that these agreements are not in the public interest rather than the parties to the agreement having to prove that their agreement is in the public interest. The absurdity of assuming restrictive agreements to be in the public interest until proven otherwise is also shown by overseas experience. On 24 May 1972  Senator Greenwood,  the then Attorney-General, made a lengthy statement on restrictive trade practices and monopolisation. In that statement he is reported at page 1964 of Senate Hansard to have said: 
The Government has concluded that many of the agreements on the Register of Trade Agreements are likely to be found on- examination to be contrary to the public interest. The Government has reached this conclusion on the information that is now available to it concerning these agreements in Australia and on the experience of other countries with respect to such agreements. I mention in particular the experience in the United Kingdom with respect to such agreements. In that country some 2,700 agreements were registered. In only 10 cases in which their public interest implications were examined by the Restrictive Practices Court were agreements found to be compatible with the public interest. 
Thus from the statement by an AttorneyGeneral under the previous Government we can see that the presumption which lay behind the current Act is in direct contradiction of the factual position. It is far more sensible to draw the legislation in a way which conforms with the facts; that is, to assume that restrictive practices and agreements are against the public interest and to prohibit them unless the parties can prove that they are in the public interest. That is what this Bill now before the House does. It declares restrictive practices and agreements to be illegal but provides for the grant of an authorisation to continue such practices if they can be shown to be in the public interest. Such a procedure should lead to a rapid elimination of restrictive agreements and practices in this country which would simply not be possible under the present Act. 
Because of the approach of this Bill the importance of the register will become less and less and indeed it will be there only as a register of agreements for which the parties are seeking an authorisation. Although the secrecy of the register will not be removed, this will not be anywhere near as important a defect as with the current Act. Due to the secrecy of the register it was not possible under the present Act to use publicity as a weapon to force firms to abandon registered agreements which would clearly be invalidated when investigated by the Tribunal. Instead, with such an enormous backlog of agreements to be examined, they had every incentive to maintain their agreements at least until they were examined in detail by the Commissioner and perhaps until their case was due to come before the Tribunal. At the present rate of progress that would mean for the most of them that it would be many many years. In Great Britain, by way of contrast, the register was virtually open and many firms abandoned agreements due to the pressure of publicity. The insistence of the previous Government on a secret register was just further evidence of its intention to do as little as possible really to eliminate restrictive trade agreements. 
This legislation now before the House not only changes the approach of the law to this issue of controlling trade practices but it also widens the scope of the law and remedies various other defects in the present legislation. In regard to mergers, for instance, the present absence of control, apart from foreign takeovers, is remedied as mergers are prohibited where the effect would be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to result in the corporation being in a position substantially to control a market. This provision is consistent with the assumption that underlines the rest of the Bill; that is, that restrictions of competition are quite likely to be against the public interest. 
However, to cover the situation where a merger resulting in substantial reduction of competition is nevertheless in the public interest there is provision for authorisation by the Trade Practices Commission of such a merger and for the Australian Government to direct the Commission to grant such an authorisation where it is desirable in the interests of national economic policy. There are, therefore, substantial safeguards to ensure that economically justifiable mergers which would, for instance, result in making more efficient production, will be allowed. The Bill does not presume as the Leader of the Opposi tion suggested, that business is bad simply because it is big. What it does presume is that substantial restrictions of competition are bad unless they can be shown that there are offsetting benefits, and that is surely a reasonable approach. 
In regard to monopolisation, the Bill removes the dominance criterion of a onethird market share. This has been the subject of criticism by the Opposition during this debate. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  suggested that this would cause confusion in industry because firms would not be sure whether they came under the provisions or not. This would seem to me to be a good thing. It is only if they engage in certain behaviour, such as eliminating or substantially damaging a competitor or preventing entry of a competitor into the market, that they can be caught under this provision. If the removal of the onethird rule has the effect of preventing firms with less than one-third of a market from engaging in such practices, then so much the better. Furthermore, studies by the Melbourne economist  Mr N.  R. Norman, as referred to in the book 'Australian Trade Practices: Readings', strongly suggest that the one-third rule was quite artificial and was not an appropriate measure of the ability of firms to engage in such practices. One obvious example of a case in which the one-third mie is utterly irrelevant would be where a firm which is very strong in one market or a number of markets then uses its muscle to conduct loss leading activities - for instance, a market where it has less than a one-third share. Under the current Act that position would not be covered. But under this Bill now before the House it would be covered. It is clearly preferable to maintain a flexible approach in this matter which is what this Bill does. 
In regard to resale price maintenance, this Bill improves the existing provisions by covering points that have been raised by the Commissioner of Trade Practices in his annual report. These concern the minimum advertised price practice and the practice of recommending resale prices. As the Commissioner pointed out in his fifth annual report, a minimum advertised price can be an effective substitute for a minimum selling price as the seller has no incentive to reduce his price to a customer below the minimum advertised price since the customer is already attracted at the minimum advertised price. The practice of recommending prices is allowed to continue but the action required by the Commissioner at present in regard to this practice is formalised by the inclusion of the requirement in the Bill. 
Finally, may I return to the central aspect of this Bill? It is a Bill which will provide a competitive business environment in Australia and so produce a more efficient and healthy economy and at the same time make a contribution to the control of inflation. At the present time firms are doing what they like and the rate of progress under the current Act towards a more competitive environment is snail-like. This is all summed up by the Commissioner of Trade Practices in his last annual report in which he said at page 4: 
Work under the current legislation is, of course, proceeding. As that legislation is in a sort of twilight period, I think many companies and those advising them are waiting, where they can, for the new legislation before deciding whether to give up their restrictions. In the meantime, when they see a need to raise prices, they are raising them by, agreement with their competitors. Although the Trade Practices Tribunal has now laid down principles of general importance against price agreements under the procedures of the present legislation the principles have to be pressed home case by case. 
In other words, at present they are doing what they like. The case-by-case procedure is terribly slow and it will take many years to achieve what this Bill will achieve in a very short time. 
In the course of my address I hope to show the concern the previous Government had for the low income earner. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  told us that the previous Government had the concern of the low income earner at heart, but an analysis of the existing health scheme would show how little regard it had for such people. The proposed health insurance program of this Government represents the most extensive reform in financing health services in the history of this country. Health services constitute one of the most technically complex and financially expensive areas of activity in any advanced country. In this country, they are long overdue for examination and overhaul. The Government's health insurance program will provide this overhaul. 
In looking at .the financial aspects ' of this scheme, we see, firstly, that health costs at the moment are of the order of $2,000m a year. This is an extraordinarily large amount of money. In fact, it represents something like 5.3 per cent of the gross domestic product. In other words, something like $5 out of every $100 of income produced in this country is being expended on health services. 
Costs as a percentage of gross domestic products have been increasing and if they continue in their present spiral they will represent 12 per cent of gross domestic product by the end of this century. So we are talking of an area in which the Government has an extraordinary responsibility to ensure that expenditure of this importance is appropriately allocated. It is the Government's role to allocate resources efficiently, and it must certainly be concerned with efficiently allocating this area of resources, which represents such a large proportion of our expenditure. 
The current health insurance scheme is inefficient, inequitable and inadequate. It is inefficient because there are so many funds; there are over 90 hospital and medical insurance funds. They are administratively inefficient. There are so many of them that they cannot possibly have the economy of scale that one large fund would have. They necessarily waste funds in competing with each other through advertising. They advertise in competition for contributors, which is a waste of money in terms of the benefits that could be obtained from one basic fund. They have been guilty of wasting money on lavish buildings and they have undoubtedly held large amounts of funds in excessive reserves. The Nimmo Committee recommended that their reserves needed to be no more than 3 months contributions. Some funds have been holding reserves of up to 2 years contributions. This is an extraordinary waste of contributors' money. 
The current scheme is inequitable because the poorer a contributor is the more his contributions cost; and conversely, the richer a contributor is, the less his contributions cost. This is an extraordinary inequity in the very heart of the health insurance scheme. This occurs through the tax deduction system. Because the marginal tax rate is higher under a progressive tax system, contributions become less expensive the richer the contributor is. Let me give a quick example by taking 2 extreme levels. With taxable incomes of over $40,000 a year, the marginal tax rate is about 67c in the $1. For $100 spent on contributions to a health insurance fund, a taxpayer in this category would save $67 that he otherwise would have to pay in tax. making the net cost to him for hospital and medical cover the sum of $33. A person in receipt of the minimum wage would have a higher marginal tax rate of 15c in the $1. This means that, instead of spending on hospital and medical insurance he would have to pay $85 after receiving a taxation rebate of $15. It will be seen that the after tax cost becomes less and less as the income becomes higher. This absurd inequity shows the total disregard that the previous Government had for low income earners in relation to health schemes. Our scheme will totally alter that situation, as I shall show in a moment. 
The current scheme is also totally inadequate in that it does not cover everybody. The honourable member for Boothby knows this, although he refused to acknowledge it in this House. Only 86.5 per cent of the population of this country are covered by a health insurance scheme. This includes pensioners. In other words, 13 i per cent of the population are not covered by a health insurance scheme or any other scheme of assistance. This is established by a Commonwealth Bureau of Statistics report, reference No. 17.7 entitled Persons Covered by Hospital and Medical Expenditure Assistance Schemes, August 1972' and issued on 31 May 1973. If honourable members opposite want to know the facts they should stagger into the Library and get a copy of it. They will find, as I have said, that only 86.5 per cent of the population of Australia are covered by health schemes; in other words, 13.5 per cent are not covered. This includes the State of Queensland. Queensland is a special example, in that the people of Queensland are. entitled to free public ward hospital treatment and are free of the means test for this purpose. 

 Mr McLeay - That was introduced by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
It was not introduced by him. If one excludes Queensland, one finds that 89.9 per cent of the people outside 
Queensland are not covered. In other words, one in every ten is not covered. This is an extraordinarily high proportion. It means that the current system is hopeless in the way in which it sets out to cover the people of Australia. Of course, there are subsidised medical benefit schemes which cover 4 per cent of the number of people they are supposed to cover. It is an absolute scheme, a total farce, and it must be changed. 
The Government's proposed health insurance program will overcome these deficiencies. The basic level of health care will be provided efficiently, equitably and fully. It will be efficient because there will be only one fund to provide the basic cover for medical and hospital costs. This will have considerable advantages in administrative efficiency compared with the present system under which 90 or more funds compete to provide some services. It will be equitable because of the 1.35 per cent levy. It will mean that the higher a contributor's income, the more he will pay, up to a level of $150 per annum. This is infinitely better than the current system, which is quite the reverse. Currently, the richer a contributor is, the less his contributions cost him. We shall change that completely, and so we should if we are concerned with equity. 
The proposed scheme will be adequate in that it will cover the whole population. There will be not a 86.5 per cent cover, but a 100 per cent cover. In other words, there will not be a large section of the population at risk, so to speak, faced with the disaster of large hospital and medical costs if any member of the family falls ill. The total cost of our scheme will be about the same as the present scheme but it will be raised more equitably and spent more equitably. 
It is clear from what I have said that the criteria that underlie this scheme are efficiency and equity. These are the concerns of economists; so it is appropriate that this scheme was devised by economists. One of the absurd arguments of the Australian Medical Association and others was that this scheme was basically achieved by economists, not doctors. What they say is that  Dr Scotton  and  Dr Deeble  are doctors of philosophy, not doctors of medicine, and they ask what they would know about medicine. Here we are talking about the funding of an insurance system, not about how to conduct appendectomies, tonsillectomies or hysterectomies. We are talking of the allocation of resources, which is an area for economists. It has nothing to do with the conduct of medical operations or how to make medical diagnoses. 
The source of funds will be a levy of 1.35 per cent on taxable income, not on gross income. There will be a related contribution from Consolidated Revenue and also a levy on workers' compensation and third party motor insurance premiums. The 1.35 per cent levy will be paid in the same way as income tax; in other words, it will be deducted weekly or fortnightly. It will be shown as a separate amount on pay slips. So taxpayers will know that they are contributing to a health scheme that costs money and they will know exactly what they are paying. Where taxable incomes are $1,040 or less no income tax is payable now and no levy will be payable either. Aged persons have taxation rebates, which means that they pay no tax on taxable incomes below $1,920 per annum. They will not have to pay the levy either. Pensioners with pensioner medical service entitlements will not have to pay the levy. Low income families will be protected. A man on the minimum wage and with a wife and one child to maintain will not have to pay anything. With more children, the amount that he can earn and still not pay any levy will go up. A man with 2 children will be able to earn $64.50 and pay no levy; a man with 6 children will be able to earn $82.10 and pay no levy. This will be adjusted with increases in the minimum wage. This means that the scheme being put forward by the Government will be much cheaper for most of the population. I have not had time to go through particular examples, but it is true to say that three out of four families will be better off under the scheme and seven out of ten single people will be better off. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question which is addressed to the Treasurer, is supplementary to one asked yesterday by the honourable member for Blaxland. Has the Treasurer studied a paper delivered to a meeting of the New South Wales Branch of the Economic Society last Friday by  Dr M.  G. Porter, who is an economist from the International Monetary Fund and who is currently working for the Reserve Bank of Australia? If so, is it a fact that  Dr Porter  concluded that if the previous Government had revalued the currency in 1971 the current inflationary pressure on the Australian economy would have been markedly diminished and there would not have been a need to raise interest rates this year? In view of this conclusion and in view of the fact that a recent report of the Joint Committee on Prices found the Government's revaluation policy to have generally reduced import prices below what they otherwise would have been, will the Treasurer agree that the previous Government's irresponsible exchange rate policy is the cause of much of our present inflation and that our rate of inflation would have been much higher that it is at present if the Labor Government had not had the courage to revalue our currency immediately on taking office and on subsequent occasions? 
Before getting to the main part of my remarks, I should like to refer to 2 statements made by previous speakers in this debate. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  referred to the Labor Government's economic ineptitude and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  referred to a rash of bankruptcies which were supposed to occur in this country in the near future. I can only assume that both of these gentlemen have become confused between the policies of this Government and the policies pursued by the Government of which they were a part in previous years, because it is those governments which have shown economic ineptitude and which certainly have produced from time to time a rash of bankruptcies. One has only to think back to 1961 and 1962 to see a great rash of bankruptcies, from which many people in this country have still not recovered. 
The matter of public importance which has been raised by the Opposition refers to inflation. It is a fact, which even members of the Opposition must be starting to realise, that inflation in this country this year has been largely generated by overseas factors. If we look firstly just at food prices, we can see that the increase in the price of food alone has accounted for S3 per cent of the increase this year in the consumer price index. This is more than half of the total increase. Obviously it is a substantial part of the inflation which has occurred but this has nothing to do with the economic policies of this Government. Blame for it obviously cannot be attached to excess demand or any other factor which can be attributed to this Government. In fact, it is one of the reasons for the prosperity of the country and the farmers and for the fact that farm income is increasing at such an enormous rate. There has been an increase in farm income of SO per cent in the last financial year and there are prospects of an increase of the same percentage in the current financial year. The increase in the price of meat alone has accounted for 34 per cent or one-third of the increase in the consumer price index in this calendar year. Again, of course, this has nothing to do with the policies of this Government. In the main, it is due to the overseas demand for these products. 
Apart from food items, the overseas aspects of inflation have also impinged upon various other commodities in the market. For instance, the price of wool has increased substantially through this year, although I think it started to decline just recently. The price of wool obviously is determined by overseas demand for wool. The price of tallow, the basic ingredient in soap, has doubled this year. It has followed the increase in meat prices. We can look at the way rising world prices affect the price of commodities which we import rather than export or produce here. I refer to such things as imported timber which we use in the construction of houses. The' cost of such timber has doubled this year. The price of cotton on the world market has doubled. The price of salmon has gone up enormously this year. There is a whole range of commodities on the world market the prices of which have increased tremendously this year and those increases are all having an effect on the rate of inflation in this country - an effect which would have been present just as strongly, indeed more strongly, if the previous Government were still in office. I will shortly explain why the effects would have- been present more strongly. 
Also, the rising price of manufactured imports to this country affects the ability of Australian manufacturers to raise their prices. They can raise their prices higher if the prices of imported commodities are increasing because they can impose such increases without losing sales to competitive imports. It is a fact that the price of imported commodities has to some extent increased this year - again, under the influence of world inflation, because in all the developed countries of the world there is a substantial rate of inflation at present. 
The importance of the international impact of inflation on the domestic economies of developed countries is increasingly acknowledged by economists around the world and surely by now should be acknowleded by members of the Opposition. Let us look at what this Government has done to offset the effect of these important international factors on the inflationary aspects of the economy. Firstly, in effect, the Government has revalued the currency 3 times. It revalued immediately on gaining office and, in effect, it revalued again in February when it did not follow the American dollar down and it revalued again, I think, in September. So this Government has had 3 revaluations. In effect, we are again revaluing now, because the American dollar is on the up and we are tied to the American dollar. So we are revaluing at the moment for a fourth time. I would agree that it is a fairly small revaluation, but if we continue to be tied to the American dollar the revaluation could become much more substantial. 
So we have taken quite dramatic action in relation to the exchange rate to offset the effect of world inflation. This works in 2 ways. By revaluing the currency we reduce the price of imports and increase the price of exports. By reducing the price of our imports we get cheaper imports on the local market and it is more difficult for local manufacturers to increase their prices. It also means that demand for our exports is reduced and so there are more products available on the local market and therefore the price is likely to increase by a lesser amount. 
We also introduced earlier this year a variable deposit scheme for capital inflow. The deposit was established at 25 per cent and it has now been increased to 33 per cent. This has had a substantial effect on stopping the capital inflow into this country which was so dramatically boosting money supply and thereby feeding the inflationary fires. We have cut tariffs by 25 per cent. Again, this has a direct effect by reducing the price of imports, and also an indirect effect on the manufacturers of importcompeting products in this country. What else could this Government have done to offset international inflation? Clearly, we have taken all the obvious measures to offset international inflation, apart from directly forcibly preventing exports from leaving the country and diverting them onto the local market. 
At the domestic economic level, we have raised the statutory reserve deposit ratio by 3 per cent in an attempt to reduce the money supply further. We have established the Prices Justification Tribunal and, despite the sneers and jeers of the members of the Opposition, particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  this body is much more than a prices exemption tribunal, as the Leader of the Opposition has been pleased to describe it. If he were prepared to do his homework by looking at all the notices of exemption which have been published in the 'Australian Government Gazette', he would see that there has been a tremendous number of price notifications to the Prices Justification Tribunal. When the applicants were threatened with public hearings, the prices became exemptions at a much lower rate than the original price notification to the Tribunal. The Tribunal is having a substantial effect on the rate of inflation in this country, an effect for which the Opposition has given it no credit whatever. 
The Government has raised interest rates by 1.75 per cent or thereabouts and, in the process, has done its best to protect home buyers by limiting their interest rate increases to one per cent. The reason for the rise in interest rates was the excessive rate at which the money supply had been increasing. It had gone up by 26 per cent during the financial year 1972-73, of which 17 per cent occurred in the first half of that year when the previous Government was in power. This figure was well above the previous rates of increase in the money supply. The reason for that dramatic increase in the money supply has been well explained by  Dr Porter  who has already been mentioned in this debate. He said that the previous Government's domestic monetary policy was completely offset indeed, more than offset by speculative capital inflow which was due to its refusal to revalue the currency, even though we had excess reserves. This then became re-enforcing. Capital inflow raised reserves higher. That induced further speculative capital inflow, so raising money supply by an even greater amount. Furthermore, attempts by the Reserve Bank of Australia to remove excess liquidity and to reduce the money supply by Reserve Bank open market operations were in a substantial degree selfdefeating. The Reserve Bank sales of bonds mopped up some money, but raised interest rates and thereby induced further capital inflow. This increased our reserves and thereby stimulated further speculative capital inflow. The whole thing was feeding on itself because of the refusal of the previous Government to stop capital inflow directly by a deposit scheme, such as the one this Government has introduced, and also by revaluing the currency. 
On page 12 of yesterday's 'Australian Financial Review' there is a table in  Dr Porter's  paper, which he delivered last Friday, in which he states that if there had been no revaluation and if the actual monetary policy of the first 6 months of this year had applied and capital controls had been ineffective or inoperative, the money supply would have increased at an annual rate of 48 per cent. In fact, because of the measures taken by this Government, the annual rate of increase is 16 per cent or an actual rise of 8 per cent. This is a tremendous difference. The Opposition has opposed revaluation of the currency, our monetary policy and capital controls. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. I ask: Is the Treasurer aware that a Sydney newspaper which is not normally noted for .its sympathy to the Government recently carried a major feature by its economist in which he endorsed the Government's action on the exchange rate, the tariff cut and monetary policy as basically sound policy? Does the Treasurer agree with the author of that article that, in view of the explosive growth of the money supply brought about by the previous Government's misguided budgetary, monetary and exchange rate policies, for Labor to have followed other than a tight money policy would have been economic lunacy? 
, when referring to the previous Government's economic policies, described them as: 'Sound, progressive, economic and financial policies and sound economic management'. In his Budget speech earlier this year, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said: 
The choice the Australian people have to make is between the economic irresponsibility of the Government and the sound economic management we offer. 
An objective analysis of the previous Government's economic policies and those postulated now by the Opposition shows those policies to be anything but sound. At some other time I shall expose the absurdity of the Opposition's current economic policies but today 1 want to demonstrate that in its last few years of office the previous Government was utterly irresponsible- - to use another of its favourite words - and left this Government a legacy of grossly excessive liquidity in the economy which accounts for both the present level of inflation and the tight money policy that this Government has had no option but to adopt. The irony of it is that the Opposition now berates the Government for the existence of conditions which are directly attributable to its own reckless disregard for proper economic management during its last few years of office. 
The fact is that over the past few years the rate of inflation in Australia rose markedly. A table incorporated in Hansard by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  on 28 March shows that from 1964-65 to 1969-70 the rate of inflation was between 2.6 per cent and 3.7 per cent per annum. Then it rose to 4.8 per cent in 1970-71 and 6.6 per cent in 1971-72. In 1972-73 it was held somewhat and dropped to 6 per cent. The previous Government absolved itself of all responsibility for the increase in the rate of inflation in those years and blamed the unions for seeking excessive wage increases, and the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and employers for granting them. The Opposition ignored the fact that inflation had spurted upwards in most other countries in the world and denied that international fac tors were in any way an important reason for that upsurge in Australia's rate of inflation. 
The previous Government sought to overcome inflation by appearing before the Arbitration Commission in case after case to oppose wage rises and also by introducing tough budgetary measures such as we saw in 1971, which led to a dramatic increase in the number of persons unemployed. In August 1971 the number of persons registered as unemployed was 76,000, seasonally adjusted, but in August 1972, only one year later, the figure had shot up to an unprecedented 120,000. Economic growth also suffered as a result of the previous Government's measures. Although the former Government did succeed in cutting back inflation somewhat by its measures, which are quite unacceptable to the present Government, it was at the same time sowing the seeds of much greater inflation in the near future. This stemmed from the former Government's utter refusal or inability to see that much of Australia's recent inflation was imported and that in those circumstances it was utterly absurd not to revalue the currency, particularly as our international reserves were large and growing rapidly. 
The theory of imported inflation is one which was first postulated 2 years ago by Professor Harry Johnson of international fame. Professor Johnson maintained that the increase in world inflation during the late 1960s was due directly to the substantial increase in inflation in the United States of America which in turn was due to that country's deficit financing of the Vietnam war. The resultant upsurge of inflation in the world's largest economy had been transmitted overseas by way of direct price effects and a balance of payments deficit which flooded the world with United States dollars. I do not have time to explain this in detail but suffice to say that it has been increasingly accepted by economists overseas and in Australia. 
In a speech in this House on 16 May last I referred to various notable overseas economists who had endorsed the Johnson thesis. Since then it has been endorsed by other economists in an Australian context, notably Peter Johnson of the Reserve Bank, who produced an article earlier this year which made this point, Professor Galbraith, a distinguished American economist who came to Australia a couple of months ago, Professor Michael Parkin of the University of Manchester and currently a research economist with the Reserve Bank, and  Dr Michael  Porter from the International Monetary Fund, and also the Reserve Bank this year. All these people have endorsed the Johnson thesis. Despite the fact that the Leader of the Opposition has achieved international notoriety by describing, during a debate earlier this year, Professor Johnson as a discredited American academic it seems more than likely that imported inflation has been an important factor in accounting for the higher rate of inflation Australia has experienced in recent years. The previous Government, by refusing to acknowledge this factor, pursued needlessly restrictive budgetary policies and left Australia completely exposed to that overseas inflation by refusing to revalue the currency. Thus Australia bore the full brunt of increased import prices which encouraged local prices to rise. As  Dr Porter  has shown, we were left also with an uncontrolled speculative capital inflow which greatly inflated the money supply and thereby sowed the seeds of further inflation which we are now experiencing. At the winter school of the Economic Society in Sydney on 9 November last,  Dr Porter  made some comments on Professor Argy's paper on world inflation. Referring to exchange rate policy  Dr Porter  said: 
A rigid exchange rate tends to guarantee that a country shares in the broad trend of world prices. Countries may resist such trends by steady revaluation combined with a degree of monetary, restraint. Attempting to resist world inflationary trends without revaluation causes the domestic currency to become over-valued and this then generates speculative inflow. The resulting increase in liquidity ultimately aggravates domestic inflation. . . . 
That exactly describes what happened in Australia last year and the year before. If we look at the balance of payments and the state of international reserves we find that in the past couple of years there was tremendous inflow into this country. In 1969-70 it was $798m; in 1970-71 it was $l,469m; in 1971- 72 it was $l,858m; and in the last 6 months of last year it was $996m. Much of this capital inflow was speculative and some of it was induced by the higher interest rates applying in Australia as compared with those available overseas. 

 Dr Porter has produced a paper to be published in the 'Economic Record' entitled The Interdependence of Monetary Policy and Capital Inflows in Australia'. In this paper he explains that the previous Government's refusal to revalue the currency led to specula tive inflow which in turn expanded the money supply, and the Government's attempts to offset that increased liquidity by using monetary policy, that is, by selling government bonds to soak up money, meant that interest rates remained high and so induced further capital inflow. This in turn swelled our reserves even further so speculators brought in more overseas money as they sensed a revaluation. The Government attempted to offset this by further sales of government bonds. That kept interest rates high and so more capital was induced into the country. In this way our international reserves swelled even further and more speculative capital flowed in. And so the process continued. 
The former Government's stubborn - indeed one might say idiotic - refusal to revalue was leading to a quite uncontrolled explosion of capital inflow, our international reserves and the money supply. I have referred to the figures of capital inflow. An even more dramatic picture is shown in the movement of our official reserves. In June 1970 they were $l,538m; in June 1971 they were $2,280m; in June 1972 they were $3,764m; and then, in November 1972, only 5 months later, they were $4,73 8m, an incredible increase of $974m. In December 1972 the official reserves were $4,8 16m; in January 1973 they were $4,849m and in September 1973 they had fallen to $4,090m. 
It can be seen that in the last few months of office of the previous Government the economic policy was not sound at all. In fact, it was totally out of control. Overseas capital was flooding into the country. Overseas reserves were increasing at an unprecedented rate. Consequently the money supply was going crazy. In 1968-69 the money supply increased by 9.1 per cent; in 1969-70 it increased by 6.2 per cent; in 1970-71 it increased by 6.8 per cent; in 1971-72 it increased by 10.5 per cent and in the first 6 months of 1972-73 it increased by 16.7 per cent. By allowing the money supply to increase at such an extraordinary rate last year the previous Government was building up an inflationary time bomb set to go off this year. Economists differ as to the degree of importance to be attached to increases in the money supply but all agree that it is quite inflationary to allow the money supply to increase at a rapid rate. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question concerning a survey on incomes that has been conducted by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics on behalf of the Committee of Inquiry into Poverty. Can the Minister inform the House whether the processing of the survey returns has been completed? Can he also assure the House that following the completion of the survey, the results will be made public forthwith to enable their use by other organisations in the community concerned with the situation of low income earners? 
In the year or so that I have been a member of this Parliament I have never ceased to be amazed by the sheer affrontery of the Opposition in continuing to berate land lecture this Government on its economic policies and presuming to lecture it on how to deal with inflation. The fact is that when the Opposition was in Government it had only 2 ways of ever combating inflation. One of those was periodically to put 100,000 people out of work. It did that in various periods over the 23 years that it was in office. Secondly, it constantly blamed wage earners for inflation and did all it could to keep wage increases down. In fact the previous Government did not take the kind of action which this Government has taken and which it should have taken in the last couple of years if it was really to indulge in a comprehensive anti-inflationary policy. When it left office the economy was virtually out of control. 
It is true that inflation in the December quarter was about four and a half per cent on an annual basis. The only way in which the previous Government could achieve that rate was to have a monthly average rate of unemployment for 1972 of 103,000 people. All this was brought about by the Budget policy mainly of 1971. At the end of il971 and throughout 1972 the previous Government consistently refused to take the one action which the Treasury was telling it to take, which its economic advisers were telling it to take and which the Australian Country Party was stopping it from taking; and that action was to revalue the currency. The Opposition knows that but it just will not admit the obvious facts of the situation. Because it did not revalue the currency the fact is that the money supply increased at an enormous rate in 1972. During 1972 capital inflow came at an unprecedented rate and the money supply increased accordingly. I have set out all the figures in the speech that I gave in this House on 29 November. 
The increase in the money supply in the last half of 1972 was 17 per cent - in 6 months - and this compared with an increase in the money supply on an average for the past few years of about 9 per cent. Of course the reason that was happening was, as  Dr Porter  had shown, the failure of the Government at that time to revalue the currency. I do not have time to go into all the mechanics of the way in which that operated but it has been well and truly set out by  Dr Porter  in articles which he has produced recently. 
The results, my friend, are that the money supply increased enormously as a result of the previous Government's failure to revalue the currency, and that Government set off an inflationary time bomb which was timed to go off this year. It did not have the guts to do it last year nor did it have the nous to do it and the fact that it did not do it has reflected back on the Government this year in an inflationary boom which we have done our best to offset. Within 3 weeks of taking office this Government revalued the currency and that was an important thing to have done and it should have been done in December of 1971. On this aspect I would like to quote from comments made by  Dr Porter  in a paper delivered at the Winter School of the Economic Society in Sydney on 9 November 1973. He said: 
As an example of the imported inflation experience consider Australia in 1971-72. The Australian dollar was becoming very strong by 1971 as evidenced by the sharp rise in our level of reserves. Part of this rise can be attributed to speculation on the Australian dollar. In a study to be published shortly I have estimated that about $1,7 50m of speculative inflow occurred in the calendar years 1971 and 1972. The implication is that if Australia had revalued earlier, say, in late 1971, then the current inflationary pressure on the Australian economy would have been markedly diminished, since domestic liquidity would not have been augmented by massive amounts of speculative funds. There would not have been the need to raise interest rates in 1973 had earlier revaluation prevented the build-up of inflationary pressure. 
I would ask the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  to take particular note of that and for his benefit I will read the last sentence again: 
There would not have been the need to raise interest rates in 1973 had earlier revaluation prevented the build-up of inflationary pressure. 
There we have the opinion of  Dr Porter  based on all his findings, that if the previous Government had had the guts to revalue in 1971 it could have prevented much of the inflation that has occurred this year. This is not to say that the inflation is entirely due to the increases in the money supply. It would have occurred to some extent anyway through the world commodity boom. Of course we know of the tremendous impact that inflation has had on this country, for instance through increased meat prices, but on top of that imported inflation through the direct increase in prices from the commodity boom we have had the effect of the previous Government's failure to revalue.  Dr Porter  has also shown that if this Government had not taken the action which it took by revaluing - virtually 3 times - there would have been a colossal increase in the money supply in the first 6 months of this year. He has shown that in fact it would have gone up by 48 per cent in the first 6 months of this year if the previous Government's policies had continued to operate in that period. 
The honourable member can say that it is humbug, but I think his economic knowledge could be written on the back of a postage stamp and I do not think he would compare with  Dr Porter. Dr Porter's  detailed studies and economists from the International Monetary Fund and the Reserve Bank of Australia have shown that in 6 months it would have increased at an annual rate of 48 per cent. There is no doubt that the previous Government should be totally condemned for the reckless economic policies it pursued in the last 6 months of last year - in fact, the whole of last year - setting off an inflationary time bomb and now having the absolute effrontery continually to berate this Government for an inflation for which it is itself basically to blame. 
The other aspect I would like to mention quickly is the sheer hopelessness of the economic arguments of members of the Opposition. They have absolutely no alternative anti-inflationary policy. The Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said today: 'Cut income tax'. That is a nice way to reduce the inflation! Of course, the whole time that the Opposition was in Government, for 23 years, it continually increased income tax as a proportion of income. Income tax as a proportion of income increased year by year. There may have been one or two years when it did not happen but basically the trend was there. Income tax increased colossally, and now the Opposition is berating the Government for the same thing happening in 1 year of the present Government's term of office. It is absurd. To say that to cut income tax would be an antiinflationary device is ridiculous. The same thing goes for increases in interest rates. The Leader of the Opposition wants to reduce interest rates as a means of combating inflation. So does the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  What absurd economics; what ridiculous economics. These people should start writing new text books. If this is antiinflationary policy, it means that all the economists in the world are wrong at the moment. They are quite absurd on economic policies. 
Members of the Opposition also want to cut government expenditure, but they do not say where. They do not want to cut expenditure on education. They support the expenditure of every penny in that field. In fact, they want to spend more pennies. They want to spend at least another S5m or $6m on education. In the area of defence they want to spend at least another $200m, because they want to spend at least 3.5 per cent of the gross domestic product on defence. Where do they want to cut government expenditure? They simply will not tell us. 
The honourable gentleman mentions the pipeline. That is a very interesting example. It costs $100m. The alternative way it was to be financed was by the Australian Gas Light Co. through importing capital from overseas. That would have been much more inflationary than to finance it in the way that this Government is doing it; that is, matching the expenditure with tax revenue. The fact is that to finance a project such as this by increasing the money supply is much more inflationary than by the Government's spending the money and matching it with increases in tax revenue. 
Members of the Opposition have also opposed the Coombs report. An amount of $116m in revenue will come from that in this financial year, but members of the Opposition have opposed most of the measures involved in the Coombs Report. They have virtually no anti-inflationary policy at all. All they can do is say: 'Cut government expenditure'. They cannot say where. They have all the policies about cutting government revenues and cutting interest rates which will be inflationary, not anti-inflationary. They cannot show us any area where we can sensibly cut government expenditure. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party is talking about cutting the Government's works program. He does not say where. In fact expenditure on the Government's works program went up only 10 per cent this year against an average expenditure increase of 17 per cent, so expenditure on works is not an expansionary area at all. Members of the Opposition just do not have any idea. All they can talk about is public servants. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  mentioned the  Hi  per cent loading. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
Has the Minister for Defence seen reports in the Press suggesting that Australia is likely to acquire the United States destroyer, the patrol frigate, as a destroyer replacement and claiming that this vessel is quite unsuitable for Australian conditions? Will he inform the House whether there is any substance in these reports? 
This is not a contentious Bill, but it certainly deals with 2 subjects that are of great importance in contemporary international politics - the international monetary system and development assistance to the less developed countries. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has said, the Bill enables the Australian Government to increase Australia's subscription to the capital of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, otherwise known as the World Bank, by US$4 1.4m or roughly $A28m. The World Bank is an international agency or, rather, one, of a group of related agencies which together form the largest single financier for the less developed countries. Its total development assistance amounted to a little more than US$3,500m in 1972-73. This is still only marginal in terms of the total development assistance to less developed countries; nevertheless it is important. 
The principal arm of the World Bank is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development which has more than 120 member countries. It makes what are generally known as hard loans to developing countries; that is, they are not grants, they are loans made only for projects which the Bank regards as being within the limits of the country's capacity and willingness to service external debt. Only projects that provide a satisfactory return on the total investment are considered. So this basically is a commercial operation. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development raises its funds, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said in his second reading speech, by borrowing on world markets and from capital subscriptions to the Bank by its member countries. Of course, it is those capital subscriptions to the Bank which we are considering in this Bill. 
Another important agency related to the IBRD is the International Development Agency which also comprises about 120 member countries. It is a sister organisation to the 
IBRD. Its role is to provide funds for worthy projects in the less developed countries, but on much softer terms than those of the IBRD. Indeed, for a country to receive an IDA credit it must be judged to have insufficient capacity to service debt equivalent to its longer term capital import requirements. Generally, IDA loans are made only to very poor countries. In fact, I think the maximum is to a country which has a gross national product of no more than $300 per capita per annum. Countries which have income of that level and below obviously are countries which find it difficult to attract or afford hard loans and, of course, they have the greatest need for assistance. In 1972-73, 70 per cent of IDA funds went to countries with an average gross national product of less than $A80 per capita per annum. This is an agency which deals with the very bottom of the poverty league, looking at the whole world. It gets its funds by contributions from Part I members - some 19 countries which are all major developed countries in the Western world and most of them in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. I have mentioned the IDA because it is important in the international aid area. It is a sister organisation to the IBRD which we are directly considering in this Bill. At the moment the future of the IDA is in jeopardy. The IBRD needs all the assistance it can get if we are to do anything about eliminating world poverty. 
Despite the substantial and growing importance of the IDA, the IBRD remains the more important of the two in terms of total development assistance provided. Last year it approved US$2,050m in loans to 42 countries and the IDA provided credits worth US$1, 3 57m to 43 countries. It is important therefore that the IBRD be assisted in its endeavours, and this means that member countries should meet their obligations to this organisation, whether formally or morally obliged to do so. 
It is surely a matter of some concern that the previous Government of this country consistently refused for a period of some 3 years to take up its entitlement, or in other words meet its obligation, to increase its capital subscription to the IBRD following the increase in our IMF quota in 1970. The excuse given was that we had budgetary restraints. That was the excuse in 1970, 1971, and 1972. I suppose it is a matter of priorities. This matter of the increased allocation by the 
International Monetary Fund of special drawing rights which are being created as a special reserve asset has become a contentious issue in world politics as less developed countries contend that the developed countries are keeping the special drawing rights for their own benefit and not using them to help development. I do not want to get into this argument at the moment, because it is a very contentious issue, one on which this Government is at least keeping its options open, but it is a relevant factor in the world scene. 
In these circumstances there is surely at least a firm obligation on the governments of developed countries which are benefiting from the allocation of special drawing rights at least to keep up with their obligations to the World Bank which are related to their IMF quotas. In my opinion it is a shameful situation that we are one of the few countries that have not done this. The previous Government in this country is directly to blame for that. This Bill seeks to redress that situation by fulfilling our obligations to the World Bank and meeting the capital subscription. This should have been done in 1970 and not left until now. 
I think if we talk about this in general terms it does not mean as much as if we look at some specific factors related to world poverty and the need to assist developing countries. The fact is that the disparity between the rich and the poor countries is getting greater. A couple of weeks ago the World Bank published its economic atlas, which showed that the disparity between the rich and the poor was growing greater. This is a deplorable situation, one in which no one here should find any satisfaction. Yet the developed countries of the world, instead of taking action to offset this, are in fact cutting back their aid. This Government is at least making some attempt to meet its obligations not only in relation to multilateral agencies like the IBRD but in other areas as well. We should be terribly concerned about world poverty if we think about the conditions in which people live in many countries. We should be terribly concerned about the fact that world poverty remains a tremendous problem for many hundreds of millions of people. A week before the World. Bank economic atlas was published a report was made to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights which revealed that between 40 per cent and 70 per cent of people in the developing nations - about 2,000 mil-&gt; lion people - live below the poverty line. At least 40 per cent of them live in absolute poverty. God knows what absolute poverty is; it must be pretty terrible. 
Perhaps I can fill the situation out a little by referring to an address that was given by the  President  of the World Bank, Robert McNamara, to the third United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Santiago, Chile, in 1972. Perhaps this fills out the statistics somewhat.  Mr McNamara  said: 
What are we to say of a world in which hundreds of millions of people are not only poor in statistical terms, but are faced with day-to-day deprivations that degrade human dignity to levels which no statistics can adequately describe? 
A developing world in which children under age 5 account for only 20 per cent of the population, but for more than 60 per cent of the deaths. 
A developing world in which two thirds of the children who have escaped death will live on, restricted in their growth by malnutrition - a malnutrition that can stunt both bodies and minds alike. 
A developing world in which there are '100 million more adult illiterates than there were 20 years ago. 
A developing world, in short, in which death and disease are rampant, education and employment scarce, squalor and stagnation common, and opportunity and the realisation of personal potential drastically limited. 
This is the world of today for the 2,000 million human beings who live in the more than 95 developing countries which are members of the World Bank. 
That puts a bit of a face on the statistics and enables us to see what we are really talking about. We are talking about immense human suffering, yet the shameful situation is that the developed countries of the world are cutting back their aid. Page 7 of the World Bank Report of 1973 states that official donor assistance disbursements represented 0.34 per cent of donors' gross national product in 1972, compared with 0.35 per cent in 1971. So in that one year, the last year for which figures were available, the figure for official donor assistance had been chopped back slightly. Roughly speaking, official donor assistance means government aid as a proportion of gross national product to underdeveloped countries. That is a disgusting situation and one which must be changed. The United Nations has set an objective for official donor assistance of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for the developed countries, and that is to be achieved by 1975. In fact only a few of the developed countries will reach the target or intend to reach the target by 1975. I am sorry to say that this country will not be one that reaches the target unless this Government changes its plans. We have said that we will reach our target of 0.7 per cent by the end of the decade. That is not good enough. I say we should achieve it by the time the United Nations says it wants it done, and that is by 1975. New Zealand has said that it will reach its target by 1976. At least this is better than achieving it in 1979 or 1980. 
I think there is probably no more important issues in the world at the moment than this issue of assistance to the less fortunate countries. We normally think of poverty in terms of our own country. We are rightly concerned about it, rightly concerned to analyse it, to work out the extent of it, and to think of ways to offset it. That is important and should be done. In my opinion it is just as important to take drastic action to help the under-developed countries to join the growth league and to help their people escape from the poverty which blights their lives at the moment. 
The International Development Agency, to which I referred previously and whose operations I described, is in dire danger of collapse and this situation is deplorable. Last September Robert McNamara said that the IDA was at least in a dicey situation because the developed countries of the world were dithering about whether they would meet the fourth replenishment of funds needed by the IDA to continue to conduct its assistance program for the very poor countries of this world. Since then the United States Congress has refused a fourth replenishment and its refusal to do so puts the whole program in jeopardy because the United States is by far the richest country in the world and provides by far the largest part of the assistance which goes through the IDA. The fact that the United States Congress has chopped back its assistance means disaster for the underdeveloped countries. If the United States Congress does not change its mind - I believe it will have an opportunity to do so - I would hope that this Government in any case would pursue it? allocation of $60m over 3 years agreed on at a meeting of the IMF and the World Bank at Nairobi last year. I would hope that we would stick by that and not chop back this allocation because the United States refuses to meet its moral obligations in the international aid sphere. We should stick by what we have said we would do and not in any way chop back. This is particularly so because of the oil crisis which has meant tremendous suffering to the underdeveloped countries which are not oil producing. All of them are very reliant on oil and its by-products. They find it tremendously difficult to obtain fertilizers and a whole range of other things because they are not able to meet the payments for oil which they previously made. This country is escaping from the oil crisis probably better than most other countries because, in a large part, we have our own oil supplies and our balance of payments position is still very good. We are not in a state of balance of payments crisis, and even if we stick to the United States dollar I do not see that we will have a balance of payments problem in the near future. So looked at from the balance of payments point of view, we can afford to meet the obligations that we have said we would meet in international conferences. Despite what the United States might do, we should stick by our promise to provide $60m to the International Development Agency over the next 3 years. 
Finally, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which this Bill is providing funds to assist, will in fact be trying to help the less developed countries offset the problems created for them by the oil crisis by raising loans from the oil producing countries which, of course, will have tremendous surpluses of funds available in the next few years if the oil crisis remains as it is at the present time. For the IBRD to be able to do that it needs the full support of the developed countries, and we should do all in our power to assist it and its sister organisation, the IDA. 1 support the Bill. 
One of the great fetishes of the Opposition is the growth of the Public Service under the Labor administration. We have heard this continually from Opposition spokesmen since the Parliament resumed this session and particularly from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and his  Deputy.  We have heard it again from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  but we have had a new factor thrown into it today: That the growth of the Public Service is affecting the rate of Australia's productivity increase. I think it it is instructive to do a little analysis of what is involved in the growth of the Public Service and to challenge one statement in particular made by the Leader of the Opposition a little while ago. The Leader of the Opposition claimed last week that under this Government there had been an extraordinary growth of the Public Service and that the extra wages of additional public servants appointed under this Government amounted to more than $150m a year - enough, he said, to raise pensions by $2 a week. In fact, this is a gross distortion of the factual position, as indeed are most of the Opposition's statements on this matter of the Public Service. 
If we look at the growth rate of the Public Service in the last 12 months of the previous Government we find that it grew by 3.3 per cent which represented 7,864 additional public servants. In the first 12 months of the Labor Government the rate of increase was higher than 3.3 per cent; it was 4.7 per cent, which represented an additional 11,500 public servants. If the rate of increase under the Labor Government had been only 3.3 per cent - the rate which had applied in the previous year - the additional number of public servants would have been only 8,150. So the extra number appointed under Labor can be seen to be 3,350; that is, 11,500 less 8,150. If we assume that the average wage of these additional public servants was a fairly high $12,000 per annum, the extra cost would be $40m, not $150m as claimed by the Leader of the Opposition. Clearly, to get a figure anywhere near $150m one would have to take the whole increase in the number of public servants. It is deliberately misleading for the Leader of the Opposition to do such a sum and then claim that the result represents wasteful expenditure that could have been used to raise pensions. Under the previous Government the Public Service grew continually and if we allow for that the additional cost can be seen to be only a fraction of the amount referred to by the Leader of the Opposition last week. 
Of course, the Opposition makes no allowance for the fact that these additional public servants are producing additional services such as those in the Department of Urban and Regional Development and in the other departments that have been created. Surely the Opposition will not say that these services are useless and should not be provided. But I think the whole question of the growth of the Public Service is put into focus, so to speak, if we see that we are really talking about little more than 3,000 public servants who have been appointed by the Government to produce services in a new area. It is utterly absurd for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to say that this represents some drag on the productivity growth of the nation. How unfair it is of the Opposition to add up the whole increase in the Public Service and suggest that this represents $150m of wasted expenditure. 
Let me broaden my remarks. This constant attack by the Opposition on the growth of the Public Service' is only one of a number of various aspects of the economy which have been the focus of Opposition attention in recent weeks. With inflation at 13 per cent for the first year of the Labor Government I suppose it is understandable that honourable members opposite have been hammering at that. They have castigated the Government for its monetary policy and have also criticised and made great play of the fact that taxpayers have been moving into higher income tax brackets. No one on this side of the House will be heard to say, in regard to increased inflation, higher tax burdens for lower and middle income earners and higher interest rates, that they are desirable or that they constitute an economic picture that we can view with equanimity. However, we reject completely the gross overstatements, the glib assertions, the smug strictures and the sheer misstatements of fact that have been the trademark of Opposition spokesmen in recent speeches on the economy. Such tactics debase the very concept of debate and reduce the proceedings of this House to mere charge and countercharge. 
For instance, in relation to inflation, one would expect that Opposition speakers would be prepared to acknowledge that since meat prices rose by 34 per cent last year due, we are told, to increased prices on world markets, this necessarily means that inflation in 1973 would have to be above that of 1972. But they make not one skerrick of concession to that or similar factors. Labor is all bad in their eyes whilst they remain utterly pure and the repositories of vast economic wisdom. In these circumstances one is moved to examine their record to see whether they are the cleanskins they pretend to be. In this regard it is instructive to go back to the first years of Liberal-Country Party government when the anti-Labor parties came into power at the end of 1949. Let us look at inflation. In the last year of the Labor Government in 1949 the rate was 8.1 per cent, which was relatively high. Then the Menzies Government came in and pledged to put value back into the 1. The increase in prices in 1950 was 11.1 per cent. The Government improved on that the next year. It was 25 per cent - 25 per cent in one year. The way that Opposition members carry on in this Parliament about 13 per cent, one would think that they had never been guilty of being in government while such inflation raged. But in fact it was virtually double the rate of inflation which occurred in 1973. The one which they provided for was in 1951. 
To be somewhat magnanimous, the Government in 1950 had various problems. It would have been difficult for any government to have restrained inflation to any great extent at that .time. This came about through the growth in world commodity prices, particularly wool, at that time and the extraordinary boom in farm incomes. The same factors are operating now. We have a commodity price boom in the world and substantial increases in farm incomes. I do not think there is enough talk about the increases in farm incomes in the last couple of years. In 1972-73 farm incomes increased by 65 per cent. In 1973-74 - the current financial year - it is estimated that they will increase by a further $ 1,000m, which is another 53 per cent. Over the 2 years they will have increased by 152 per cent. Both in the late 1940s and in the early 1950s and now in 1973-74 the dual problems of the direct effects of rising commodity prices on world markets pushing up the price of those products on the Australian market, and the secondary effect of greatly enhanced incomes for farmers have both been in operation. 
In both periods there has also been the problem of general world inflation, making it very difficult for any government to keep inflation down when import prices are continually rising and domestic price setters are freed from the restricting pressure of competitive import prices. This Government has done its best to offset these factors by revaluation and tariff cuts. In so doing it has received no support whatever from the Opposition. 
While we are considering the performance of the previous Government in its first few years of office, we should look also at what happened in regard to taxation since this is another focus which the Opposition has had in recent days in regard to the economy. The Leader of the Opposition has claimed recently that in this financial year the Australian Government will collect 36 per cent more in income tax than it collected last year. This figure is quite incorrect as I will demonstrate shortly. But even if it were so, it still would not match the performance of the Liberal-Country Party governments in the early 1950s. In 1951-52 income tax revenue increased not by 36 per cent, not by double that amount, but by 118 per cent. In one year income tax revenue rose by 118 per cent. Yet now the Opposition makes a great song and dance about a supposed 36 per cent increase. 
In fact the 36 per cent is quite erroneous. If we do the sum properly it will be seen that in fact the increase becomes 32 per cent. Unfortunately time is against me in this debate and I have not time to go right through the exercise. But, basically, the Leader of the Opposition has assumed a 20 per cent increase in average weekly earnings in 1973-74 whereas on -the calculations which he has given to the Parliament he is talking really about June to June and not the average figure for the whole of the financial year. On the basis of his calculations average weekly earnings should be increasing by 17 per cent, if one accepts his guestimates for the March and June quarters of 1974. This would mean that income tax revenue would increase by 32 per cent and not 36 per cent. 
One does not suggest that this is something about which we need not worry. The whole movement of taxpayers into higher income tax brackets is a problem. But it is not something which has just started to happen under this Government. It is something which has occurred almost continuously for 23 years. 
The cynicism of Opposition spokesmen on this matter is shown by the fact that they harp upon it although it had occurred for the 23- year period that they were in opposition. In 1949-50, a year in which taxation revenue was determined by a Labor budget, the income paid in tax by a worker receiving average weekly earnings and having a wife and 2 children dependent upon him was 2.9 per cent. He paid 2.9 per cent of his wages in tax. This became 5 per cent by 1951-52. In another decade it "was 7.3 per cent. It was 10.3 per cent by 1965-66, 13.9 per cent by 1970-71 and 15.8 per cent by 1971-72. There is an almost continuous process of this percentage increasing. This Opposition when in Government cut taxes in 1972-73 and the percentage fell back in that year to 14.1 per cent. It was virtually the first year in which there had been any noticeable decrease in the percentage since 1949-50. 
It ill behoves the Opposition to berate this Government- for not correcting in one year something which it allowed to happen more or less continuously for 23 years. The Opposition is in no position to attack this Government because in one year it has not reduced the tax burden that grew enormously for the period it was in office. We will reduce the tax burden on lower income earners. All that has happened in this year is that the percentage that is going in income tax has been restored to about the level that obtained in 1970-71. 
In regard to inflation, I think we should take notice of the fact that inflation has been occurring to a marked degree in other countries. There has been much mention in recent debates of comparisons with price increases in overseas countries. But I think we have not really been looking at the right figures - at least I certainly have not been looking at the same figures as have some members of the Opposition because when I look at the figures I get a rather different picture from that which they have tried to paint. I would like to refer to an article in the 'Daily Mirror' of 5 March 1974 headed 'Costs hit nations in world survey'. I will quote some parts of the article. It reads: 
Consumer prices rose sharply in most of the 128 nations which released economic details for 1973, according to the International Labour Organisation. 
Figures released by the ILO headquarters in Geneva this week said the rapid rises of 1972 had been exceeded during 1973. 
Prices rose by an average of more than 10 per cent in 74 countries last year, 48 more than in 1972. 
Despite economic measures taken by each Government, the rate of price rises trebled in 22 countries in 1973 and doubled in 18 others. 
Prices rose by more than 20 per cent in 27 countries. 
Australia was among the 47 countries to experience a price-rise average of between 10 and 20 per cent. 
Other nations in this group included the UK, New Zealand, Denmark, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Ireland, and Finland. 
If we look at those figures we can quickly see that inflation is not something which is occurring here in isolation; in fact it is occurring all round the world in a lot of countries which are comparable to us, and the rate of inflation in those countries is comparable. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  claimed recently that the United Kingdom, under the Conservative Government, and the United States both had a much better record on inflation than did Australia. This is typical of the misleading comments that come from honourable members opposite. In fact the United Kingdom's inflation last year was 12 per cent, which was only slightly better than ours, and to achieve that the United Kingdom Government resorted to statutory price and wage controls. The United States did rather better, but it imposed price and incomes controls. The United States froze meat prices for quite a time last year. Does the Opposition recommend that this be done in Australia? Of course it does not. The Opposition fights it tooth and nail, just as it fought the attempts of this Government to obtain the powers to control prices and incomes, powers which other countries have been able to use in the fight against inflation. How utterly cynical to fight against this Government having those powers and then to attempt to ridicule this Government by comparing its inflation rate with that of countries that have been able to use, and in fact have used, precisely those powers to keep the rate of inflation down. 
We have been attacked by members opposite for the monetary policy which this Government has been forced to adopt in the last year or so, particularly in regard to interest rates. However, no one is more vulnerable to attack in this area than the previous Government, which allowed the money supply to rise by an incredible 17 per cent in the last 6 months of 1972. This remarkable explosion in the money supply has created substantial problems for this Government but it has acted in various ways to overcome it. One of those ways was to raise interest rates.  Dr Porter,  a Reserve Bank economist, has shown that if the previous Government had revalued the Australian dollar in 1971, it would not have been necessary to raise interest rates in 1973. Because the previous Government was utterly irresponsible in its monetary policy, this Government has had little alternative but to take the action it has taken. 
In this regard it is interesting to note that rising interest rates are not confined to Australia. Throughout the Western developed world, countries have faced higher inflation and concurrent higher interest rates in recent years. Of course higher rates of inflation place great pressure on governments for higher interest rates because people will not lend their money to banks, building societies and other institutions if the rate of interest is well below the rate of inflation because to do so would be to reduce the real value of their money in that situation. Some increases in overseas interest rates have been startling indeed. For instance, in the United Kingdom last year,  Mr Heath's  Conservative Government presided over an incredible increase in interest rates. The Bank of England minimum lending rate went from 7 per cent to 13i per cent in the course of that year. By comparison, our increase in the long term bond rate from 61 per cent to  8i  per cent seems mild indeed. If we went to other countries we would see that the same situation applies. There has been a general picture of substantially increased interest rates throughout the world, and it is difficult for any country in that situation to keep its level of interest rates down. 
That is not to say that it is not a problem for Australian men and women but at least it puts it in the perspective which the Opposition does not provide. Of course as has been announced this morning, the Government will also be providing a tax concession with regard to interest rates on mortgages. This will be of great assistance to Australian homebuyers. The comments made on the economy by Opposition members during the last couple of weeks can be seen to have been grossly unfair. Opposition members make no concessions whatever to the realities of the world around us. They are not the clean skins that they pretend to be. When they were in the government, they had a much worse rate of inflation. They have had a much worse tax record than that which applies to this Government. The people of Australia should recognise this fact. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. It arises from recent pledges by the Leader of the Opposition to implement a 3- month price freeze if the Opposition were returned to office. Is it a fact that due to the defeat of the prices referendum last year the constitutional power presently available to the Australian Government would not enable the effective enforcement of a price freeze? Is it also a fact any reference of price control powers to the Australian Government by the States for a limited period only, as called for by the Opposition last year, would be a cumbersome procedure giving price fixers ample time to raise prices before the freeze could be imposed? Will the Treasurer inform the House whether the Government has given any consideration to a short term voluntary price freeze and if so, whether it regards such a proposition as being at all feasible or in any way worthwhile as an anti-inflationary device? 
I address a question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I ask: Can the Minister inform the House what success his Department has achieved and what difficulties it has encountered in establishing an alternative program of non-defence work for the Government defence establishments to offset the rundown in orders for defence materials and equipment? Does he expect that with the advice of the reconstituted alternative work committee and the experience of nondefence work already gained the defence establishments will be able to proceed on a sound basis and that substantial retrenchments will be avoided? 
My question, which is directed  to the Minister for Overseas Trade, is concerned with the effect on domestic prices of reduced tariffs. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to reports that the Australian Bureau of Statistics in compiling the consumer price index figures for the June quarter priced only Australian-made clothing, so ignoring the impact of cheaper imported clothing? Has he checked with the Bureau to establish whether or not this is a fact? If it is a fact, does this mean that as the volume of imported clothing has increased dramatically this year the 25 per cent increase in the price of winter clothing, as shown in the June quarter consumer price index release, in fact overstates the actual rate of increase in clothing prices and thus also overstates the actual rate of inflation? 
Before commencing my remarks on this Bill I just say in relation to the comments of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  that the popular catch-cry for increases in productivity is one which has been made by politicians, businessmen, statesmen and others over the years as a means of preventing inflation. Desirable as it may be in itself it has very little, in my opinion, to do with an anti-inflation policy. 
I said that it is desirable but it has nothing to do with an anti-inflation policy. The Prices Justification Tribunal was established last year by this Labor Government as one of a number of innovative measures introduced by the Government to combat the inflationary timebomb planted under this economy by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Through its shameful refusal to revalue the Australian dollar at the end of 1971 or take other worthwhile action to stem the massive inflow of speculative capital into this country in 1972, the previous Government presided over a spectacular and potentially disastrous increase of 17 per cent in the money supply in the last 6 months of 1972, the inflationary effects of which this Government has been endeavouring to overcome ever since it took office. Of course, our difficulties were greatly exacerbated by a dramatic increase in inflation throughout the developed Western world with a concurrent boom in world commodity prices, and quite exceptional increases in food prices which were largely independent of the general inflation. 
The increase in food prices in fact accounted for almost half of the increase of 13.2 per cent in the consumer price index last year. In addition to measures such as revaluation, restric tions on capital inflow and restricting credit, the Government, as I have said, introduced this Tribunal directly to supervise prices charged for goods and services by large corporations, that is, those with an annual turnover of more than 20m. This Tribunal was certainly intended by the Government to have an antiinflationary role, which it undoubtedly has, but it can also be seen as having an equity role in that its job is to ensure that proposed prices are in fact justified and thus consumers are not exploited. This latter role is quite separate from actions to limit inflation in that it is concerned with the reasonableness of prices having regard to profits and other matters, and therefore it would be just as relevant in a period of low inflation, as it is in a period of high inflation. This dual role is, I believe, a matter of considerable importance and one about which I would have liked to have said more if time had permitted. 
I have said that the Tribunal has had a depressive effect on inflation and, like the other inflation measures which have been taken the validity of that assertion is not upset by the fact that inflation overall has increased. The fact is that without this and other measures the rate of inflation would have been even higher than is now the case. When the Bill to establish this Tribunal was first put before the Parliament in May last year, the Opposition derided it as being useless as a means of combatting inflation. Once the Tribunal began operations last August the Opposition, and in particular the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  lampooned the Tribunal as being a price increases justification tribunal. 1 consider those statements toy the Opposition to have been unfair. One can only assume that either the Opposition was utterly ignorant of the Tribunal's actions or that it regards the Tribunal with a jaundiced eye for ideological reasons. 
Objective analysis of the Tribunal's operations over the last 12 months shows clearly that it has had a notable impact on the pricing behaviour of large corporations. In the period of almost exactly one year that it has been in operation the Tribunal has conducted and concluded some 17 public inquiries, and others are in progress. These public inquiries have generally involved major firms such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and they have often resulted in significant reductions in the proposed price increases. For instance, last week the Tribunal announced, after a public inquiry, that proposed price increases by Kellogg (Aust) Pty 
Ltd on various food products should toe reduced from an average 12.4 per cent to an average 6.7 per cent. Furthermore, although the Act does not contain penalties for nonobservance of the Tribunal's decision by the companies involved, no company has publicly flouted the Tribunal's decision by going ahead with increases greater than those found by the Tribunal to be justified, and this despite the fact that a number of companies have made no secret of their dissatisfaction with the Tribunal's decision. This would seem to imply general acceptance of the Tribunal and its authority by business, assisted perhaps by the potential penalty of bad public relations that would flow from treating the Tribunal's decision with contempt. 
However, it has been suggested recently by GMH that some of its suppliers have increased prices by a greater percentage than those which they notified to the Tribunal and with which they were allowed to proceed without public inquiry. Whether or not this is the case I would certainly think the lack of penalties for non observance of Tribunal decisions was at least a potential deficiency in the legislation. But, as honourable members will be aware, such penalties do not exist in the legislation because of the grave doubt that exists about the Australian Government's constitutional power to require adherence to the Tribunal's decisions. Those doubts would not exist if the prices referendum had been carried last December, but unfortunately it was not carried because the Opposition's ideological hang-ups in regard to anything resembling price controls led it to combine with business interests to oppose that referendum with all the vigour they could muster. 
I have referred to the public inquiry aspects of the Tribunal's operations but these are only the tip of the iceberg. By mid-March this year the Tribunal had received 2,390 price increase notifications, all of which are subject to scrutiny by the Tribunal. At that time some 2,058 had been processed to finality, of which 123 involved negotiated reductions in proposed price increases. In the case of those 123 the Tribunal, having analysed the proposed price rises, then consulted with the companies. After the Tribunal gave them the alternative of substituting a lesser price or having the whole matter taken to public inquiry, the companies settled for the lower price rise. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his second reading speech on this Bill, such substituted noti fications, as they are called, now number around 200. Of course there is also the factor that many companies would have put in to the Tribunal price notifications which would have been rather less than may have been the case if they were not going to have them subjected to some scrutiny, even though they got an exemption to go ahead with the full price rise. Thus the Tribunal can be said to have played a worthwhile role in the first year of its existence. However, in saying that one is not saying that there is not room for improvement. Indeed the experience of the past year has demonstrated to the Tribunal itself that its operations could be improved toy various amendments to the Act. It is those amendments which are before the House at present. 
The most important of these amendments is, to my mind, that which enables the Tribunal to investigate companies with an annual turnover below the $20m mark, that is, if the Tribunal should desire or the Government so order. This provision is especially important in that it will enable the Tribunal to investigate retail prices and so ensure that what the Tribunal is effecting toy way of reducing price increases at the wholesale and manufacturing level is passed on to the consumer at the retail level. The Tribunal has, I understand, expressed concern at its inability to follow through to the retail level, but this amendment will plug that substantial loophope in the legislation. The desirablity of such an amendment is amply demonstrated by the quite inadequate effect on retail prices that resulted from the revaluations of December 1972 and August 1973 and the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut in the middle of last year. 
In part, of course, as the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices has found, the price reducing effect was itself reduced by substantial increases in prices for our imports in the countries of origin, reflecting rapid inflation in those countries, or the greatly increased world price of internationally traded commodities which occurred last year. The effect was reduced also by deliberate actions of some exporters in overseas countries who simply raised their prices in their own currency to take for themselves the benefits of our revaluation. Of course some benefit in lower prices to consumers of some products, particularly clothing, textiles and footwear, should have come anyway because retailers switched orders from local manufacturers of these products to overseas suppliers, presumably because the goods from overseas were cheaper. Apparently however little benefit came by way of lower prices at the retail level. 
The retail price of winter clothing, for instance, rose 25 per cent in the June quarter of this year, according to the consumer price index. May I say in passing that one wonders whether the price information collection techniques of the Australian Bureau of Statistics, which compiles the consumer price index, are adequately reflecting the actual retail level of prices for such commodities. If they are, one can only conclude that retailers of clothing have made a stupendous killing by switching to imported goods and raising their profit margin. The Bill before the House will enable the Prices Justification Tribunal to investigate retailers' profit margins on such items and so act to ensure that the consumers benefit from increased imports of goods, the landed cost of which is below that of their Australian made equivalent. 
This measure and the other measures taken in the Bill to improve the efficiency of its operations and enable it to cover a wider field, will undoubtedly make the Tribunal's operations more effective. To return to my earlier theme, the Act could, I believe, be further improved by restructuring the Tribunal's activities to accord with the duality of roles it has to play. At present, in assessing a price claim, the 2 roles of the Tribunal are intermingled. One result is that important companies are taken to public inquiry almost every time they notify a proposed price rise. This means that the Tribunal is becoming bogged down in repetitious public inquiries for these large companies. 
So far as anti-inflation action is concerned, price claims should be capable of rapid assessment without public inquiry. Such a process clearly should not involve reaching fundamental decision about the appropriateness of a company's proposed price level, having regard to its efficiency, productivity, profitability and so on, but would involve brief analysis of the proposed price increase as measured against basic anti-inflation criteria. More detailed assessment, involving full analysis of the company's position, could be conducted at a second stage which would not apply every time a company notified a proposed price rise. The second infrequent stage would be concerned not so much with anti-inflation action but rather with securing a just level of prices. 
Because of the exigencies of time I am not able to go into the criteria which might be developed at this stage, but I hope to get that chance al some future date. 
If I were to try to correct all the distortions which have come from the Opposition in this debate, I would spend the whole of my 10 minutes doing so. I will correct a few of them on the way, but I must start off by correcting the absurd statement by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  that the tax on unearned income is a tax on the poor and not a tax on the rich. This is quite clearly utterly absurd. In his arithmetic he took no account of the number of taxpayers in each of the groups at which he looked. If he divided the incomes earned in those areas by the total number of taxpayers, of course he would see that it was in fact a tax which would have a much greater impact on higher income groups, that of course it would have a much greater effect on those with much more property, because it is in fact a tax on property income. We all know that property is distributed far less equitably than is income in this country. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said that this was a new tax. It is not a new tax. It is a tax which was introduced by a conservative government and which operated in this country for something like 38 years. 
-If you listen, I will tell you quite a bit about it. Ten years ago a book was produced in this country by four of the most eminent people in public finance. They were Professor Downing,  Mr Boxer,  Professor Arndt and  Mr Mathews.  I think they are all professors now. This book is called 'Taxation in Australia'. On page 23 the book gives a little history of this tax in this country. I will read a small section. It states: 
In 19S3 the tax differential against property (unearned) income, which had applied at the Commonwealth level since 1915, was abolished and today no distinction is made between property income and personal exertion (earned) income. Commonwealth tax rates were originally about 70 per cent higher on property income and, by 1939, the gap had widened to more than 100 per cent over much of the income range. 
This was introduced by a conservative government, which applied a 70 per cent differential, not the 10 per cent we are talking about at the moment. The book goes on: 
The States also imposed heavier taxes on property income, but to a lesser extent. With the substantial increase in overall tax rates in World War II it was inevitable that the differential against property incomes should decline. By the early 1950s the maximum differential was down to about 25 per cent . . . 
It goes on to state that the tax was abolished in 1953 but that it remains in force in a number of countries, including the United Kingdom. The fact is that this is not a new tax in this country. It operates in a few countries, including the United Kingdom. When it was introduced previously in Australia it had much higher differentials than are involved at the present and went to even higher levels later on. 
There is a general case for the incorporation of property into the tax base. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that the principle of this tax was repugnant to him. I can understand that he would say that, because he was a member of a government which consistently refused to tax even capital gains. One can well understand that a Party which refused to tax capital gains would have a total objection to incorporating property in any way into the tax base. The fact is that many countries in the world- most countries in fact- incorporate capital into the tax base in some way or other. Many of them incorporate it through a net worth tax; others do it by incorporating unearned or property income into the tax base. 
In making his statement about the repugnance of the principle the Deputy Leader of the Opposition also referred to the Carter Commission in Canada as being one authority which had rejected a tax on unearned income. It certainly did that, but it also said that there should be a capital gains tax, something which I had said his Government refused to introduce. 
The general case for incorporating property into the tax base is more or less twofold. Firstly, we can say that people are better off if they have property than if they have not. If 2 people have the same income and one person gets his income from investing in property while the other one works 40 hours a week for 48 weeks of the year and expends a considerable amount of mental or physical exertion that person is certainly wearing himself out in a way that the other person it not. The other person might just go fishing every day. I am taking the example to the extreme, but it is a fact that a person simply sitting back and watching the dividends coming in is not expending in any way the same kind of effort as the person who is earning income through personal exertion. 
Property also has other advantages. These advantages are referred to in the book which I previously mentioned. On page 109 it states: . . . . property confers advantages on its owner independent of, and additional to, the income it yields: it serves as a reserve of spending power in emergencies and thus reduces the need to save out of income, it provides security for old age and heirs, it provides opportunities for reducing income tax liability by income-splitting, it gives the owner access to credit, it is a necessary condition of business enterprise, and it confers social status and prestige. 
For all those reasons there is a case for bringing property into the tax base. In fact the authors recommended in the book that a net worth or wealth tax be established, but they went on to say that if a country could not have a net worth tax or a wealth tax then it was best to have a tax on property income. I will say a bit more about that in a moment. 
I have said that the difficulty is to know what is the best way to go about bringing property into the tax base. We could introduce a net worth tax. As I have said, many countries have done this. About 14 countries in the world have a wealth tax. Nine of them are in Europe. They are Sweden, Norway, West Germany, Austria, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Switzerland and Luxembourg. A wealth tax also exists in India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Colombia and Uruguay. Alternatively, we could introduce a tax on property income, which is what is involved in the Government's proposed legislation. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that it is inequitable to introduce a tax on property income. In fact the reverse is the case. As Downing and company proved in the book 'Taxation in Australia', it is utterly inequitable not to incorporate property into the tax base. My personal preference would be to have a wealth tax. This would be a very difficult thing to introduce in the short term. A tremendous amount of hard work would have to be done in working out valuation, people's net worth, etc. It would be a long term project. In the meantime, it makes sense to do what is recommended by the authors of this book, and that is to introduce a tax on property income. 
In saying that, I realise that there can be difficulties for 2 groups of people, low income earners and retired people. Those 2 sections could be affected. For low income earners who have property income, there is of course the foreshadowed amendment which has been talked about in this debate. It will provide that people with taxable income below $5,000 will not have to pay a surcharge on any property income they have. I stress that it is taxable income. The way the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was speaking one would have thought that it was gross income. What the amendment in effect will mean is that if all the tax deductions of an ordinary wage earner with dependants were added to his taxable income his income of $5,000 would be up to the level of something like average weekly earnings. So what we are saying is that roughly two-thirds of wage and salary earners earn less than average weekly earnings, and they in general will not have to pay a surcharge on any property income which they may have. So we have looked after the low income earner with this foreshadowed amendment. 
The other group which may have some kind of problem is the group consisting of retired people. They are protected to a large extent by the amendment relating to low income. But insofar as they are people who have retired and who have invested a lump sum and are living on the proceeds of it they will be affected if they have a taxable income above $5,000. It is also relevant and very pertinent to bear in mind that they will also get, if they are not already receiving it, a means test free pension. They will have to have a tremendous amount of property investment for the surcharge on their property income to be so high that it would counteract what they will get from a means test free pension. Practically every retired person in this country will be far better off as a result of getting a means test free pension from this Government, even if he has to pay a surcharge on all of his income. 
So I suggest that the tax is quite defensible. Indeed, it would be totally improper, in the absence of a wealth tax, not to have some such measure as this. As I have said, it is important to protect low income groups, and they will be protected by the foreshadowed amendment. I think the retired people must bear in mind that they will benefit greatly from the means test free pension they will receive, if they are not already receiving it. 
-At the outset may I congratulate the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  on the maiden speech which he has just made. I would also like to express the sympathy of myself and my colleagues for the recent bereavement in his family. The Budget represents the framework of the Government's economic policy for the current financial year and as such it deserves to be seriously debated in this place. With some notable exceptions this is not what has been happening on the 
Opposition side of this chamber. If the Opposition believes that the policies of the Government are inappropriate to the economic circumstances facing the country it has an obligation to the people of Australia to say not only that it considers that to be the case but also to explain what alternative policies it would implement and why those policies would be more successful than those adopted by the Government. This has not been happening in this debate. Instead, the Opposition has set out to score as many cheap political points as it can and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has been the prime offender in this behaviour. 
Simply comparing current rates of inflation or unemployment with those of 2 years ago or comparing what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  says now with what he said previously in entirely different economic circumstances is a pathetic and puerile exercise from a pretender to the Prime Ministership. Yet that is what the Leader of the Opposition spent much of his time doing in this debate. The principal and the quite unforgivable weakness of his argument was his complete failure to mention the fundamental reality of our time, that is, that the competitive market economic system which operates in most countries and governs their international trade is in a state of world-wide crisis. Almost every country similar to Australia has a problem of growing inflation and unemployment. The Leader of the Opposition and his followers make not a skerrick of allowance for that fact. 
The only acknowledgment by the Leader of the Opposition of international factors in his speech was his allegation, in direct contradiction of the facts, that under a Labor government Australia's rate of inflation is accelerating faster than that of any other OECD country-OECD being the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development which covers practically all the countries of Western Europe, North America, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. To make his point the Leader of the Opposition had a table incorporated in Hansard. That table was quite out of date when he had it incorporated in Hansard and is completely misleading in the way it is drawn. Basically it lists the rates of inflation in Australia and other OECD countries for the 12 months to April this year and compares those inflation rates with the average rates which applied in each of those countries over the decade 1961-1971. Although it lists the inflation rate for 1972, the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government, the Leader of the Opposition did not use that figure for comparison with the rate of inflation for the 12 months to April 1974. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table. I have received the approval of the Opposition to do this. 

<graphic href="090131197010035_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

-This table gives the latest available figures and compares the rises in prices for the 12 months to July 1974 with those of 1972. It shows that by 1972, the last year of the LiberalCountry Party Government, prices in Australia were increasing substantially faster than the average for all OECD countries. So they were increasing faster than the average of OECD countries in the last year of Liberal-Country Party government. Since then the rate of inflation in Australia has increased considerably but so too has the rate in all OECD countries. In fact, the latest figures show that the disparity between the rate of inflation in this country and the average rate in all OECD countries has declined considerably. In 1972 the Australian inflation rate was 1.23 times the OECD average. In 1973, the first year of the Labor Government, it remained exactly the same- 1.23 times the OECD average. 
But in the most recent period available, the 12 months to July 1974, the disparity declined to 1.08 times the OECD average. That means that the disparity now between the OECD rate and the the Australian rate is considerably less than it was in the last year of Liberal-Country Party Government. These figures show that the assertion of the Leader of the Opposition in this debate that under the Labor Government the acceleration in inflation has been greater than in any other OECD country is completely and utterly false. 
The fact is that inflation is Australia has increased at a substantially lower rate than it has in OECD countries generally. While dealing with this subject may I correct the outrageous untruth contained in the speech of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this debate. He asserted at the outset of his speech that since the Labor Government had been in power the value of money had depreciated by approximately 40 per cent. This is an enormous exaggeration of the fact. If the honourable member meant that prices had increased by 40 per cent since Labor came to office that is completely false, as the actual increase in the price index since the December quarter of 1972 was 20.7 per cent. That is about half the figure asserted by the honourable member for Wannon. But if he meant what he said, that is, that the value of money had fallen by 40 per cent since Labor came to office, it would imply that in his opinion prices had increased by 67 per cent since Labor came to power. If honourable members opposite have difficulty in understanding that, I suggest that they consider a situation in which prices rose by 100 per cent. That clearly would mean that the value of money had halved; that is, had been reduced by 50 per cent. By the same arithmetical process, if one says that the value of money has fallen by 40 per cent one is implying a 66.7 per cent rise in prices. However, I suspect that such subtleties are beyond the honourable member for Wannon and that he really meant that prices have increased by 40 per cent since Labor took office, in which case, as I have already said, he was exaggerating the factual position to the enormous extent of virtually doubling the rate of increase that has occurred. 
These incredible mis-statements of the facts on our inflation rate by senior members of the Opposition signify the desperation of the Opposition to cash in on what it sees as a politically advantageous position, without making any concessions to the realities of the world in which the Australian economy is now operating, without worrying too much about sticking to the facts and without bothering to explain how its rag-bag of alternative policies would improve in any way the situation in which we now find ourselves. The fact is that the economy of almost every developed capitalist country in the world is plagued by growing inflation, as I have shown, and by growing unemployment and high interest rates. Indeed, a general state of recession and rapid inflation exists throughout all the countries in which the market system operates. That even includes one communist country- Yugoslaviawhich, although it has the world's most developed system of worker control, also has a competitive market economy similar to that operating in capitalist countries. The world is thus faced with a malaise of the competitive market system. It is absurd in the extreme for members of the Opposition to claim, as they have done in this debate, that the economic troubles of this country are due in some way to mismanagement by the present Government, to increased government spending or to some other action of the present Government. The fact that the rest of the capitalist world is in similar straits surely proves that the present Government cannot be held responsible for the deteriorating economic situation in Australia. 
I do not have time in which to analyse in any great detail how the world-wide malaise in the economic system has developed. But, put briefly, it has much to do with the simultanous boom in economic activity that occurred throughout most of the developed capitalist countries last year and the consequent tremendous boom in world commodity prices. The prices of practically all internationally traded commodities rocketed up last year as world demand substantially exceeded world supply. That had a consequential effect on the internal price level of the various nations, particularly the developed nations which were the purchasers of those commodities. Added to that was the tremendous increase in oil prices last year as a result of the decision of the petroleum producing countries to lift oil prices by a prodigious amount. In fact, Middle East oil prices have increased four-fold in the last 2 years. Although Australia has been protected from that to some degree by our indigenous oil supplies, it has nevertheless increased the cost of the 30 per cent of our oil supplies that we import and raised freight rates as well as increased directly the cost of our imports from other countries which have been fully affected by the oil price rise. 
The result of all this is that inevitably we have been lifted up the inflation scale along with everyone else. Commodity prices have now fallen on world markets as demand for them has been reduced in all the developed countries as they have taken action to offset their inflation by introducing credit restrictions and tightening their fiscal policies. The results of those actions, however, have not been so much to reduce the rate of inflation- indeed, it has tended to gather steam- but rather to increase unemployment and introduce a world-wide recession. Countries such as the United States and Canada have inflation rates that over the last 12 months have been about 3 per cent below our 14.4 per cent, but their unemployment rates have edged up and up. The United States now has an unemployment rate of 5.4 per cent and Canada of over 6 per cent. Germany, which for decades has rarely had more than a 1 per cent unemployment rate, has now edged up to 2.3 per cent, and that it not counting the tens of thousands of guest workers whom it sent back to Turkey, Greece and Yugoslavia. Britain and Italy are in an appalling state, with inflation rates well above ours, much higher interest rates, unemployment levels much higher than ours and acute balance of payments problems. I could go on and on with the list, but I think that reference to the countries I have mentioned is sufficient to prove the point. 
It is clear that we are caught up in an international crisis that creates enormous difficulties for the government of the day. The economists in this country, as elsewhere, are hopelessly divided as to what action should be taken for the best. In these circumstances it seems to me that certain basic objectives should be kept clearly in mind. The fact that it is an international problem indicates that it will require international action to solve the problem and co-operation to overcome it. We should be strongly advocating such cooperation at international monetary forums, and in particular urging other governments not to choose the unemployment path to cure inflation. If they do, it will create an acute world depression which will be far worse than the discomfort of international inflation. 
The Labor Government in this Budget has adopted a strategy that conforms to the approach of rejecting the unemployment path, despite substantial advice to introduce a tough Budget in an endeavour to cure inflation by the traditional approach. The Government rejected that option and has introduced a mildly expansionary Budget. At the same time the credit squeeze is being eased in a number of ways, and the devaluation will further accentuate that easing. Although unemployment is increasing at present, the Government is currently pursuing policies which will soon reverse that trend unless the international recession continues to worsen, in which case it will be extraordinarily difficult to stop unemployment from increasing in Australia. Having rejected the Draconian method of curing inflation by creating massive unemployment, the Government's task now is to bring inflation under control by other measures. No one suggests that this will be easy. A further tax cut, reduced government spending or a national conference of unions, governments and employers, such as is advocated by the Opposition, would not be anything like a solution. It is simply not enough to state those propositions without pursuing or elaborating them in any way. If they were elaborated their synthetic nature would soon be obvious to the people of this country. What is needed now is a guarantee to all wage and salary earners that their real incomes will be protected against inflation, so that they do not make wage claims that anticipate some higher rate of inflation and thereby help to bring it about. 
Indexation will not solve inflation but it will do much to stop it from getting worse unless international inflation accelerates further. The process of obtaining indexation is not easy for the Government because it does not have the powers to legislate directly for indexation of wages and salaries or any other incomes in this country. We sought at the end of last year powers to control incomes, but this was denied us by the Australian people. If that referendum had been passed we could now have legislated for indexation and given to all wage and salary earners of this country a guarantee that their wages would be maintained in real terms. Because we have not that power we have had to pursue the process by means of the conference of unions and employers before  Mr Justice  Moore of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The process is proving extremely difficult. The employers are rigid in their opposition to indexation of wages. In those circumstances it appears likely that the unions will have to go to arbitration to try to get a decision for indexation. If they do, the Government will support them, I would imagine, as we are certainly supporting indexation before the Moore conference. 
I believe that apart from indexing just wages we should also give close consideration to indexation of the tax schedule. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  advanced in this debate such a system and seems to think that he originated the idea. I would like to assure him that the trade unions have talked about it for years. It has been discussed on this side of the House for as long as I have been a member of this Parliament, that is since December 1972. The attraction behind the idea is that wage earners will be assured that their after tax wages will go up by the same proportion as their gross wages. If we do not index the tax schedule, their after tax wages do not increase at the same rate as gross incomes. It is claimed that this could well be an accelerating factor in wage claims and therefore a factor in the inflationary process. I personally think that there is probably something in this and that the Government should give close considerations to indexing the tax schedule. 
Finally, may I say that we will need substantial co-operation from the whole of the community if we are to solve the difficult situation we are in at the moment, a situation which has not been the creation of this Government but a creation of the whole system. I think the people of Australia and indeed the members of the Opposition should bear in mind that in the period this Government has been in office the international factors have been infinitely more difficult than ever they were, certainly in the 2 decades prior to the Labor Government coming into office. We had the difficult problem last year of the tremendous boom in international prices; we had the difficult crisis of disruption of the international monetary system, which began in the early 1 970s and 1971 and has become worse since. We have now got the even more difficult international factor of growing international recession. None of these factors operated in the previous Liberal Government's term of over 20 years. They have been factors with which this Government has been trying to cope in the less than 2 years in which it has been in office. It has also had to cope with the mismanagement of the economy in 1972 when the Liberal Government allowed the money supply to increase at an enormous rate- 17 per cent in the last 6 months of 1972 - because of its refusal to revalue the currency, a pigheaded refusal for which the Labor Government has had to pay in dealing with a more difficult economic situation than would have been the case had sensible measures been applied in 1972 by the previous government. In fact, keeping the money supply under control has been one of the most difficult problems facing this Government in the 134 years it has been in office because of the mad acceleration of the last 6 months of 1972 and the very difficult economic circumstances that have applied in that 1 % years. 
I have said we will need the co-operation of the people. To solve inflation and recession in this country and throughout the world we will need co-operation within the country and without. We need international co-operation to prevent international recession. Within the country we need the co-operation of wage earners with the Government. I am not suggesting that the wage earners should be called upon to make sacrifices which are unreasonable. One certainly asserts that they should be entitled to have their incomes maintained in real terms and to share in increased productivity, but if they pursue claims beyond that to any marked degree they will make it extremely difficult for this Government to retain full employment and difficult for this Government to remain in office. I suggest that this Budget is a good Budget in the circumstances and that certainly it should be supported by the House. 
I address my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Has the Minister noted the comments made in Melbourne earlier this week by the  President  of the International Gas Union,  Mr Clark,  to the effect that using natural gas to fuel power stations, as is proposed by the Victorian Government for the projected Newport power house, is a wasteful practice and justifiable only in the early years of development of a natural gas field? Can the Minister inform the House whether these comments by this world authority on energy are in line with the policy of the Australian Government? If so, can the Minister say whether the Australian Government is able to take any action to prevent the Victorian Government fuelling any future power stations with natural gas? 
-In speaking to the Treasury estimates I want to examine critically the role of Treasury in the formulation of the Government's budgetary strategy. It is no secret- indeed it has been discussed in the Press ad nauseam- that the Treasury wanted the Government to adopt a restrictive Budget, one which would have had a substantial domestic surplus as a means of controlling inflation. The adoption of such a Budget strategy by the Government would, however, have meant that the Government would have been consciously opting for an increase in unemployment, that is a further increase over and above any increase in unemployment that was already developing following the ending of the economic boom. It is also no secret that the Government rejected that Treasury Budget strategy. Instead of adopting the restrictions on the Budget urged by the Treasury the Government adopted a mildly expansionary Budget, one that was in approximate domestic balance and one that has what is known as a balanced budget multiplier effect which I do not have time to explain but which basically has mild expansionary results. I should add that, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has mentioned in the previous debate, the Budget has since been made more expansionary by subsequent action. 
The Treasury approach is based on sound- at least they were sound- Keynesian principles, that is, if we reduce purchasing power we reduce demand and therefore we make it more difficult for employers to raise prices, we make employers resist union demands more and we create unemployment and a bad environment for unions to seek further wage increases. In this way we reduce the rate of increase in prices and costs. Previous Liberal-Country Party governments adopted this strategy several times in the 23-year period in which they were in office, but most notably in 1951, 1960 and 1971. The former Government increased income tax so severely in the 195 1 Budget when there was a very substantial degree of inflation that income tax revenue went up by over 100 per cent in one year. The former Government also took very severe action in 1960 and 1971. The results of this action were that the previous Government admittedly reduced inflation after 1951 and after 1960. Inflation was reduced virtually to zero in the early 1960s but the cost was a very substantial increase in unemployment. The former Government also reduced the rate of inflation in 1971. By 1972 the rate had cooled down somewhat, again at the expense of a substantial increase in unemployment. 
I should add that the rate of inflation was still relatively high in 1972. Indeed it was well above the average for Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries in that year. This is the orthodox approach to restraining inflation. It has been generally adopted not only by Liberal-Country Party governments in the period that they were in office in this country but also by most western countries during that period and most of them are following this approach now. Most of these countries are increasing unemployment as a means of stopping inflation or reducing the rate of inflation. Some of them also have an added incentive to do so because of their balance of payments difficulties following the tremendous increase in oil prices. This approach is being increasingly questioned by academic economists. One would only have to read the newspapers in the last few days to see that various economists in Australia have questioned this orthodox approach of controlling inflation. 
The Government rejected this Treasury approach for a number of reasons, most importantly I would suggest because it went utterly against the principles of the Labor Party to consciously and deliberately adopt an economic policy which would have resulted in a substantial increase in unemployment over and above that which may have been in train at the time. When we increase unemployment, the people who are unemployed are the people who can least afford it. Generally those who lose their jobs are the lower paid workers. It is these people who are always made to suffer for the general benefit of restraining the rate of increase in inflation. So on those basic grounds of principle this approach was rejected. But it was rejected for other technical reasons. 
There is no established trade-off. There is just simply no automatic base by which we can say that if we increase unemployment by x per cent we will reduce the rate of inflation by y per cent. There is nothing like that. We can look back at economic history and see the kind of action that was taken and the results of inflation. But the circumstances differ in each economic cycle and there is simply no mathematically precise trade-off or anything like it because of the differing circumstances. Indeed, the tendency has been for the trade-off to increase. In other words we have more and more unemployment to get the equivalent effect on inflation. This has been noticed in other countries as well as in this country. There are various theories as to why this is so. Some relate to the peculiarities of the labour market- the changing nature of the labour market Others are explained by political factors, the political argument being that business and unions are becoming increasingly aware of the fact that governments simply cannot maintain restrictive policies for too long because they have to face elections and as a result they are prepared to ride out the rough times. 
Companies increase prices when demand is slackening and unions seek wage increases when there is growing unemployment, all this because they know that the situation cannot go on for too long. So the trade-off has to be bigger and bigger in terms of unemployment to get a given reaction in terms of inflation. Of course, the result is that if we are to adopt this path we need to be a government which never faces an election or at least faces elections very infrequently or possibly a government which is prepared to make unemployment more bearable. I suppose in this context it is worth mentioning France which has recently agreed with the unions in that country to raise unemployment benefits to 90 per cent of a worker's wage. This can easily be seen in terms of a policy of making unemployment more bearable because that country sees increased unemployment as the only answer to rising inflation. 
* I think the third reason for the Government's rejection of the Treasury approach was that we believe there are measures which one can take which do not involve the draconian method of increasing unemployment substantially so as to reduce the rate of inflation, at least insofar as international inflation will allow us to do so. I have no time to go into detail on this matter but very briefly these measures involve the agreements with unions through a social contract, getting indexation of wages, the prices justification system and so on and if things get really tough using our tax powers in the way that has been talked about by academic economists in the Press and very recently by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
So there are good reasons for rejecting the Treasury approach. But I suggest we should look at what would have happened if we had adopted that approach. Unemployment is increasing now because of action which has been taken to offset the recent economic boom. This action had to be taken and no one objected to it. We could not let the boom go its full length because if we had we would have had a disaster on our hands. We have now taken substantial action to restore full employment. I mention some of the actions. The Budget itself is expansionary and has been made more expansionary by subsequent action. Devaluation will certainly help employment. We have eased the credit squeeze. We have imposed quotas on knitwear and footwear. We have introduced a retraining scheme. We have also introduced a regional employment development scheme. All of these measures are substantial factors which are working towards a return to full employment. They will take time to have effect and they will not act overnight but in the not too distant future they will have a substantial effect in restoring us to a state of full employment. If we had accepted Treasury strategy there would have been a much bigger rise in unemployment than will in fact eventuate. 
The attitude of the Opposition to this is interesting. The Opposition's apparent position is that it too rejects the Treasury approach- at least it says it does- but this certainly does not accord with its past behaviour as I have already explained. On the basis of the Opposition's past behaviour one could expect it to knuckle under to the Treasury very quickly, at least insofar as it thought it politically expedient to do so. 
The position of the Treasury in all of this is interesting. The Treasury is said by some people in the Press to be out to destroy the Government. I for one totally reject that. I do not think that the Treasury is out to destroy the Government. I think that the Treasury is putting forward what it sees as being the most appropriate means of defeating inflation in this country, even though that might not accord with the basic value judgments of the Government. It has the right to do that, although I certainly do not agree with the action which the Treasury has recommended. I do not know of anyone on this side of the chamber who really thinks that the Treasury is out to destroy the Government. I think that most, if not all, of my colleagues think much the same as I do, that is that the Treasury is doing what it thinks is best but we do not happen to agree with it. I do say, however, that the Treasury's value judgments are not mine. I do not think that they are the value judgments of anyone else on this side of the House either. If the Treasury wants to be restored to its previous position of preeminence in the business of advising the Government on economic strategy, it needs to adopt the value judgments of the Government, however unpalatable that may be to the Treasury. If it wants to have its position restored it has not just to put forward adamantly the kinds of proposals which it thinks are right, rejecting the Government's value judgments; it has to accept those value judgments and put forward policies which will enable us to make the best fist of running the economy, of restoring full employment and of restraining inflation within those bounds. 
Sitting suspended from 1.2 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Debates like this are rather dispiriting because they tend to degenerate into sheer slanging matches. I will try to avoid that to some extent, although I certainly will be critical of this motion. Firstly, I would like to refer to the statement by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is referring only to unemployment figures which exclude school leavers. If one looks at the monthly review of the employment situation, on page 6 where the main table appears the first figures shown are for the total unemployed, including school leavers. When one looks at the seasonally adjusted data on the next page one finds that it does exclude school leavers but that is because it is under a new definition and the seasonally adjusted data are not available yet. Work is being done on a new scheme to adjust the figures seasonally for the new series. The old series, which the honourable member for Wannon likes to refer to because it shows higher figures, in fact includes people who are not unemployed, school leavers who are still at school. They are sitting in classrooms right now, but they have registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for a job when they leave school at the end of the year. Those people are being counted under the old definition as being unemployed. The Department has rightly thought it more appropriate to introduce an unemployment series which has in it only people who are on the labour market, and of course that is a reasonable and sensible and appropriate way in which to look at the figures. 
You have had your say. At this point may I say that this does not in any way mean that we regard the situation as therefore tolerable. It is a very difficult situation and one which worries everyone on this side of the House. But it is sheer hypocrisy for the mover of this motion to weep here about the way unemployment breaks people's spirits. If that is his real feeling then he has certainly had plenty of opportunities when he was a member of previous governments to do a lot of weeping about the way unemployment was breaking the spirit of the people, because the government of which he was a part in 1971 deliberately and consciously opted to increase unemployment substantially. Previous Liberal Party-Country Party governments had done exactly the same thing. It was a continuing hallmark of the present Opposition's 23 years in government that from time to time it deliberately and consciously decided to adopt fiscal and monetary policies which would substantially increase unemployment. 
The Liberal Party-Country Party Government did it in 195 1, it did it in 1960, it did it in 1971, to take 3 very notable examples. In 1951, when inflation was running at 25 per cent- in fact it was 25 per cent for that year on the Consumer Price Index; we tend to forget that under the previous government we did have inflation of that kind of order- a Budget was brought down which increased taxes so savagely that income tax revenue went up by 1 1 8 per cent in one year. Yet we have all the weeping about the 45 per cent increase involved this year- and that 1951 Budget was followed by a substantial increase in unemployment. In 1960 when inflation again started to increase the Liberal Party-Country Party Government came in with a tough Budget at the end of the year. It created substantial unemployment in 1961 and almost lost office because of it. In 1971 it again deliberately opted for unemployment in its Budget of that year. As the Minister has said, in January 1972 the then Treasurer, now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  said: 'We have achieved what we have set out to do in that we have achieved a situation in which over-award payments are depressed'. In other words he was saying: 'We have deliberately and consciously created a pool of unemployed to take the heat off union wage claims because we see them as being the basic cause of inflation'. Whatever the rights and wrongs of that statement were, and I think it had more wrong than right in it, the fact is that there was a deliberate decision to create unemployment. 
It is sheer and utter hypocrisy for this motion to be moved criticising this Government for a situation of unemployment when the Opposition, in government, continuously tried to create unemployment whenever it thought that this was needed to fight inflation. By contrast, this Government has not deliberately or consciously opted for a large scale increase in unemployment. When it came into office it gave maximum priority to the restoration of full employment. In fact, when it came into office there was a significant degree of unemployment and the 
Government adopted policies which would certainly achieve full employment. By the end of last year Australia definitely had a situation of full employment. Admittedly, the Government did take some action last year, through revaluation and through tariff cuts, which it realised could cause some unemployment. To counteract that, it then gave structural adjustment assistance. The Government said that if people were affected by these decisions and were rendered unemployed then they would get 6 months of full pay, if needed. 
As the honourable member for Hunter says, that had never been done before. It was a unique and certainly very worthwhile thing to do to assist people who were making some sacrifice for the overall good of the nation. The total number of people now receiving that assistance is still less than 3,000-2,814 at the end of September. So the numbers who are receiving the assistance are not tremendously significant but the Government has nevertheless looked after them, and of course some people who were receiving it have gone off it by now. 
In the pre-Budget discussions this Government was advised by the Treasury, and certainly by lots of other conventional economists, to opt deliberately for a policy of increasing unemployment, The Government refused to do that. The Budget was not a Budget which sought to increase unemployment. If this Government had been like the previous government it would have knuckled under to Treasury, as the Opposition did time and time again in government, and it would have introduced a tough budget which would have substantially increased unemployment over and above the trend which was developing at the time. Nevertheless, I am not avoiding the fact that unemployment is increasing. I am saying that it is not a policy objective; it is certainly no policy objective of this Government to increase unemployment substantially. 
In looking at the fact that unemployment has increased, allowance must be made- I know the Opposition will not make allowance for it but if it was in any way fair and reasonable it would- for the increased difficulty of managing the economy today, with the greatly increased volatility of the world economy. Every country in the western world is currently experiencing increased inflation and increased unemployment. There is hardly one comparable country in the world which is not in the situation Australia is in now, where both of these factors are operating, so it is nothing unique. The Opposition cannot point to the Minister and say that it is his responsibility. It is not the responsibility of the Government as such, it is something which is happening in every country in the world. Every opposition in every parliament in the developed nations of the world is trying to score the political points which the Opposition is trying to score here. I hope some of them are making more constructive suggestions about how it can be overcome. 
The fact is that our unemployment rates are low compared with unemployment rates in other developed countries. The latest figures I could get which give some comparison with the other countries are unfortunately for early this year. They relate to the end of the first quarter of 1974 and come from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development publication 'Economic Outlook' for July 1974. 1 ask the Opposition to take note of some of these figures: Canada 5.5 per cent; United States 5.2 per cent; Japan 1.3 per cent; Australia 1.5 per cent; France 2.3 per cent; Germany 1.6 per cent; Italy 2.8 per cent; United Kingdom 2.2 per cent; Belgium 2.3 per cent; Netherlands 2.6 per cent; Finland 1.7 per cent; Sweden 1.5 per cent. Apart from Japan, Australia was the lowest there. Certainly our rates have increased since then, but so too have the rates in almost all of those countries. I say almost because I do not have the figures for all of them, but I do know that the general trend is up. In the United States the latest figure I have seen was for about a month ago. It was 5.4 per cent and President Ford's anti-inflation package, which cuts government expenditure and increases taxes, will certainly push it towards 7 per cent, or so his economic pundits say. In Germany the rate is now 2.3 per cent and that does not take into account the thousands of guest workers Germany has sent back to Yugoslavia, Greece and Italy. The fact is that this is a growing feature of every developed country in the world and, whether we like it or not, it is a factor of the general economic malaise of the market economy of the Western world at the moment. 
The Government has taken many steps to try to offset growing unemployment. The Budget itself is expansionary. In fact, it is more expansionary than the Budget that the Opposition would have us bring in really would have been. We have ended the credit restrictions. We are now taking all sorts of actions to increase the amount of money available in the community. Devaluation will help to restore full employment. We have imposed quotas on the knitwear and footwear industries. We have introduced the NEAT scheme, which will certainly assist in overcoming some unemployment, and we have introduced the original employment development scheme. We are doing all of the things which are in the right direction for restoring full employment. The unemployment rate probably will continue to increase for some time- we hope that it will not be for too long- but it will not have been as a result of a deliberate and conscious act by the Government to create unemployment. We are battling valiantly to overcome the very significant forces operating in the world economy today. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (HindmarshMinister for Labor and Immigration)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
A change of definition of the school leavers component of registered unemployed persons had its first effect this month. 
The official seasonally adjusted unemployment figures, using the new definition, fell during July to 86, 197. 
Then it goes on to deal with what has happened to the other figures as well. Every month since then at the back of the official document issued by my Department- in September it appeared on page 32- is the following explanation: 
From July 1973 a revised definition applies to the schoolleaver component of registered unemployed persons. 
July was chosen as the most appropriate month to introduce the changes because it is the seasonal low-point for school-leaver movements. The major effects of the changes become apparent at the completion of each school year. 
For CES purposes, school-leavers are now defined as comprising all persons under the age of 2 1 who, at the time of registering with the CES, had ceased full-time primary or secondary education within the previous six months. 
The previous definition differed in that it comprised: 
persons still at school who notified the CES that they would leave school before the end of the school year if a full-time job were available; or 
persons who had ceased full-time primary or secondary education within the previous three months. 
This change in definition recognises the difference in the job-search behaviour pattern of school leavers from most other members of the labour force. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)- With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  I wish to say that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said rather slightingly that there had been, I think, 1 1 widow trainees. I have looked back on the official figures. I was the responsible Minister at the time the widow training scheme was started in September 1968. By the end of June 1971 we had accepted 6,21 1 for training of whom 2,047 had actually entered employment. Those are the official figures in the official report which I have just checked on in the Parliamentary Library. I knew that the Minister was grossly wrong. I hope that he will do me the courtesy of withdrawing the rather slighting remark that he made, particularly since his own NEAT scheme is based upon the widow training scheme which I inaugurated. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley)-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
-I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration a question concerning the national employment and training scheme- NEAT. Can the Minister inform the House whether it is a fact, as claimed by the Opposition spokesman on industrial matters, that people who are not genuinely looking for work are exploiting the scheme? Can he also say what precautions are taken by his Department to ensure that such exploitation of the scheme does not occur? 
I wish to confine my remarks to one small section of the estimates for the Department of Social Securityindeed, it accounts for only about 0.2 per cent of the Government's proposed expenditure on social security and welfare in this current financial year- and I refer to the Australian assistance plan which, in my opinion, is one of this Government 's most constructive and exciting initiatives. This may seem a strange comment about a program which is such a small drain on Government revenue but I am sure that my analysis of its operations to date in one of the 2 areas of Australia where it was put into full operation for the year 1973-74 will bear out the validity of my belief. The Australian assistance plan was formulated by the Social Welfare Commision. which was also a project of this Government. The basic objective of the plan is to involve people in regional social welfare activities and to assist them in the development of integrated patterns of welfare services within their community. To achieve this aim, the Social Welfare Commission, in its Discussion Paper No. 1 of last August, envisaged the establishment of regional councils of social development which would assess the social needs of the particular region and attempt to meet those needs in a variety of ways, including the allocation of grants and subsidies to various bodies within the region. The regional council was expected to involve representatives of the Australian, State and local governments, trade unions and employer groups, welfare consumer groups and non-government bodies associated with social welfare. 
All this represented a very substantial break from previous government involvement with social welfare because here it was being recommended that residents within a region would determine their own social welfare priorities rather than have those priorities determined for them by a remote government. They would also be handling and allocating Australian Government funds to meet these welfare needs in their community and this was probably an even bigger break with the past. The Social Welfare Commission recognised these difficulties and recommended that a pilot program be undertaken with one regional council in each State being given administrative finance and also funds for allocation for social welfare purposes; the amount of these funds for allocation to be determined on the basis of $2 per person living in the region. 
It was also recommended that the regional council be established with money provided for administrative purposes only. A government which was not genuinely interested in community involvement or in overcoming the welfare deficiencies most acutely concerning the people would not have taken the chances that this plan clearly involves. The possibility of wastage of money or worse was clearly there but I am pleased to say that the Government had enough initiative to take the plunge. I say this with some feeling because my electorate is in the western suburbs of Melbourne and this region of Melbourne was chosen by the Social Welfare Commission as the area in which to have a full scale trial of the plan within Victoria. The reasons for choosing this region presumably were that it is a lower income region with pressing needs in all areas of social welfare and that in recent years an active group of concerned people had come together within the region to assess the needs of the area, to draw attention to the deprived nature of the region and to press for action to overcome these social deficiencies. 
In early 1973 there was formed, with full public involvement, a Western Region Commission which was concerned with urban development in its various manifestations, including social development. By the time the Australian Assistance Plan was first mooted in August last year there was therefore already in existence in this region a body which included many persons interested in or working in the social welfare area who had already done a lot of work on assessing welfare needs in the region and who were willing and eager to become involved in such a plan. The Western Regional Council for Social Development was founded in February this year at a public meeting attended by approximately 700 people, which in itself indicates the interest this plan had created in the region. That meeting elected 24 members of a general committee and formally adopted a constitution. The members of the general committee covered a wide spectrum of occupations and interests in social welfare. In addition to those 24 members, 12 members of .the general committee were nominated on the basis of one each from the Australian Government, the State Government, the Western Region Commission and each of the 9 local government bodies in the region. Thus all levels of government in the region are represented on the committee. 
Once the Council was formed it had then to set about the process of allocating the $700,000 of capitation money to various social welfare projects in the region. To this end it first established a criteria subcommittee, elected from its general committee, which set about establishing the guidelines to be used for funding projects. Having established its criteria, it called for submissions from local organisations of worthwhile projects for funding. Not surprisingly perhaps, there was no shortage of projects. In all, some 170 project submissions were received, of which 65 were eventually funded. Due to the time constriction involved in all projects having to be approved by the Department of Social Security by 30 June this year, the committee worked tremendously hard but found itself at loggerheads with the Department of Social Security at times. This related particularly to decisions as to what were and were not fundable projects. 
One major problem that had to be overcome was that the Department believed that many projects could be funded under other government programs. But these were on the basis of a $2 for $ 1 subsidy or some other similar arrangement. This dispute got to the heart of what the Australian Assistance Plan is all about, because in the less affluent areas it is very difficult to raise the $1 that is needed to attract the $2 or $4 Australian Government subsidy. So the needy areas have found it much more difficult to obtain Australian Government funds for various aged persons programs, for instance, than have more affluent areas. Thus the Regional Council was insistent that it should be able to expend AAP funds to finance projects even though partial government funding might be available through other programs. I am pleased to say that the Department eventually acceded to that. 
Without going into great details, a wide variety of projects were funded. For some it has meant the difference between life and death. One YMCA youth project was on the brink of collapse and certainly would have been wound up but for AAP funding. It has been used to extend and initiate Meals on Wheels services, to provide a full-time co-ordinator of social planning for the regional committee on the ageing, to establish community centres, to conduct social research and to assist a variety of migrant, youth and welfare groups to maintain and extend their services. In summary, it has provided a tremendous fillip to welfare services in the region and, importantly, has raised enormously the level of community interest and activity in social welfare. I should mention also that under the Australian Assistance Plan there is provision for community development officers who will have the principal task of stimulating involvement of people in social welfare activities and assisting welfare groups in the region. Three municipalities in the region have already appointed a community development officer and five others are in the process of doing so. 
In praising the scheme as I have, I am not suggesting that there are not some problems. I have referred to one set of problems which were met in allocating the capitation funds. There also has been the general problem of the feeling of people in the region that too much red tape is involved in the scheme. The Department naturally is keen to ensure that the funds are allocated in a way which means that there is no wastage and that they are put to proper and appropriate use. Yet for the people in the region the feeling is that there is too much red tape and an enormous delay in getting the money after decisions have in fact been made. I say to the Minister that, if some half-way house could be found and if there could be some easing of the red tape, the scheme certainly would be improved in terms of getting funds out to the regions quicker than seems to be possible at the moment. In summary, I certainly am pleased that this scheme is being extended to other regions apart from the Western Region and the region in Western Australia which were funded in the previous financial year. This year 6 regions will be funded, and I am sure that the scheme will be as beneficial in those regions as it has been in the Western Region in the year 1973-74. 
I ask the Treasurer: In view of recent assertions that the Government's  measures to expand the availability of credit have not been effective, could he inform the House of the extent to which the capacity of the banks to lend money has in fact been improved in recent months? Could he also explain why there has been a recent upsurge in bank holdings of Treasury bills and notes and whether these increased holdings can be taken as reflecting a failure of the Government's monetary policy or as representing any legitimate basis of criticism of actions by the Reserve Bank? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. The question concerns the publicity campaign being conducted by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria which has as its aim convincing the people of Melbourne that the proposed Newport powerhouse is necessary and desirable. Is the Minister aware that in advertisements in Melbourne newspapers the SEC claims that the proposal for the Newport powerhouse has the support of the Federal Ministry of the Environment and Conservation? Can the Minister inform the House whether this statement is factual? 
-In speaking to this Bill I wish to concentrate particularly on the reduction in personal income tax and the introduction of the property income surcharge. Dealing first with the reduction in the rates of income tax, I wish to emphasise the substantial nature of the reductions that are involved in this measure. As a result of the reduced income tax scale and the new tax rebate scheme for lower income earners with dependants, many families will have a dramatically reduced tax bill this financial year. Looked at on an overall basis, these tax reductions are considerable enough. The full year impact of the tax scale restructuring is to reduce tax collections by more than $ 1,000m in a full year. Added to that is a further $60m special rebate for lower income families and another $ 130m is lost in revenue as a result of the new mortgage interest payments deduction scheme which is also involved in the Bills about to come before the House for consideration. These add up to approximately $ 1,200m in income tax relief this year, which is clearly a very substantial sum indeed. 
This tax relief is not being allocated on an across the board basis. Rather it is designed to help those most in need. Thus, restructuring of the tax scale results in a much larger percentage reduction in income tax for lower income earners than for higher income earners. The special rebate is to assist low income families and the mortgage interest payments deduction is also structured so that the proportion of payment that can be claimed as a tax deduction is reduced by 1 per cent for each $ 100 of net income over $4,000. 
Leaving aside the mortgage interest payments deduction for the moment, the impact of the other two measures is quite dramatic for lower income families. For instance, a taxpayer on $100 a week with a wife and 2 children to keep will have his tax cut by 54 per cent by this measure. This is a tremendous reduction which in fact increases the taxpayer's earnings, after tax, by  6Vi  per cent. 
This year average weekly earnings will be about $144 a week, on the Budget estimates, those estimates being for a 22.5 per cent increase in average earnings for this financial year. For a taxpayer on an income at about that level of $ 144 a week and with a wife and 2 dependants to support, the tax burden will be reduced by 24 per cent as a result of the tax scale restructuring and the special rebate, which means that the after tax pay of that taxpayer will be boosted by 4Vi per cent before account is taken of any additional saving that he may get through the mortgage interest payments deduction scheme. 
Having noted the dramatic nature of the tax savings resulting from these measures, however, I think it should be stated that without these measures the proportion of income that wage earners would be paying in income tax would have been increased dramatically. Indeed, what has been happening for the last couple of decades is that the proportion of income paid in income tax by the average wage earner has increased continually. I can give the House some figures on this aspect to show what a dramatic process this has been. 
In the last financial year in which a Labor government was in office before Labor was returned to office in 1972-that was in 1949-50 when we were in office for almost half of that financial year- the proportion of income paid in tax by a wage earner receiving average weekly earnings and with a wife and 2 children as dependants was 2.9 per cent. Almost every year from that year on, whilst the Liberal and Country parties governed this country, that percentage increased. In 1953-54 it was 5 per cent. In 1960-61 it was 7.2 per cent. In 1968-69 it had risen to  2Vi  per cent. In 1970-7 1 it had increased to 13.9 per cent. For 1971-72 the figure was 15.8 per cent. Tax cuts were granted in that year and the percentage of earnings paid in income tax fell to 14.1 per cent in 1972-73, increasing to 16.6 per cent in 1973-74, the first full financial year under this Government. Therefore there has been a continual, progressive and substantial increase in the proportion of income paid in tax by wage earners throughout the last couple of decades. 
All this has been achieved by keeping the tax schedule constant, not by increasing the taxes in each financial year. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  did not announce that each financial year there would be a big increase in tax. All he said was that the tax schedule would be the same as it had been the previous year, but because of inflation and increases in real earnings everyone moved up into higher tax brackets and therefore paid a higher proportion of their income in income tax. Most of that increase, of course, was due to inflation rather than to increases in real earnings, so to that extent the wage earners were somewhat disadvantaged, or at least they felt they were substantially disadvantaged, because their aftertax pay was not increasing at anything like the rate at which their gross pay was increasing. 
The growth in the proportion of income going in tax is thought by some economists to have important economic consequences. It is important to consider these in the context of what has been done in the tax measure before the House at the moment. As I said, in the financial year 1974-75 the proportion which will go in tax for a worker on average weekly earnings with the dependants I mentioned is 16.6 per cent. Without these tax cuts, it would have been 20 per cent. The economic significance of this arises from the fact that wage earners may take other action because of the fact that their after-tax pay is not increasing at the same rate as their gross pay is. 
Various economic studies have been conducted which indicate that this much slower rate of growth of take-home pay has been an important factor in determining unions' wage claims and also in increasing union militancy, in other words, the determination with which they pursue wage claims. The most important of these analyses is an English study which has been produced in the form of a book entitled 'Do Trade Unions Cause Inflation?' I hasten to say that the book does not conclude that there is a simple answer to that question, but it does strongly conclude that the process of an increasing tax bite has significantly affected union wage claims and union determination to achieve those claims in economic circumstances which would not previously have been associated with union militancy. In other words, with conditions of substantial unemployment which are increasingly pervading the industrial world at the moment, unions have continued to pursue wage claims, but with a determination that would not in the past have existed but which now exists because their bargaining powers are being reduced by unemployment. 
The authors of the book I have mentioned believe that the substantial recent increase in the income tax bite in the United Kingdom is the factor which explains this change in union behaviour. This also poses a fiscal policy quandary for governments if this is in fact the case. The traditional remedy for inflation has been to increase taxes and cut back on government expenditure. But if in present circumstances taxes are increased, and if the authors of this book are right, what happens is that the unions will have a tendency to pursue higher wage claims to get the rate of growth in their after-tax pay that they wanted to achieve. This will add to the inflationary pressures in the economy. A counter productive factor would emerge if conventional fiscal policies were applied. 
Whether union wage claims are in some way related to the much slower rate of growth in after-tax pay as compared with gross pay is debatable, but I would think that it is a fact of some importance. The growing union demand for tax indexation in line with prices reflects union awareness of and concern about this factor. Of course, if such an indexation scheme were adopted, the tax bite would still increase over time as real incomes increased but increases in incomes that were only to keep up with inflation would not lead to a taxpayer's moving into a higher tax bracket and thereby seeing his aftertax income increase at a slower rate than inflation. 
The tax measures which the House will be debating today as I have shown generally result in taxpayers not moving into higher tax brackets this year. For a man on average weekly earnings with a wife and 2 children to keep, his proportion of income paid in tax this year will be about the same as that paid last year. For a taxpayer on average weekly earnings but with more dependants, the proportion of income paid will be less this year than last year. For lower income earnersthose receiving lower than average weekly earnings- and particularly those with families to keep, the proportion of income paid this year in income tax will be less than that paid last year. Thus, in general, the tax measures have achieved more than indexation for prices would have achieved this year, although for taxpayers with incomes well above average weekly earnings this is not the case. If an increasing tax burden does accelerate wage claims, then this could still be a factor amongst higher income earners. 
Generally, however, in terms of equity to wage earners and in terms of reducing the pressure by wage earners for wage increases to maintain the real value of their take-home pay, the measures contained in this Bill are very desirable. However, the measures also have a further beneficial effect at this time and that is the stimulus to the economy that will flow from them. By putting up to $ 1,200m in the hands of taxpayers at this time and by making the full year benefit applicable to pay-as-you-earn deductions in the last 6 months of this financial year, the Government is providing a substantial and quick acting stimulus to the economy. With unemployment increasing at the frightening rate that we have experienced in the past few months, some such measure as this to increase demand and to restore some confidence to the economy was undoubtedly necessary. 
The Opposition claims that this was also its policy but it wanted to accompany it with a cut in Government expenditure of a similar order. The net result of such a policy however would be to give the economy no stimulus at all. By matching what we give the taxpayers on the one hand and a reduction in Government expenditure on the other, we would, through the balanced budget multiplier effect, provide less stimulus to the economy than was the case before the tax cuts took place. Given the great needs for additional stimulus at this time, such a policy as the Opposition advocates is asinine. 
I turn now to the property income surcharge. I submit that this tax which the Opposition describes as iniquitous is in fact completely equitable and reasonable. Indeed such a tax operated in this country for 38 years from 1915 to 1953 and was introduced in the first place by a conservative government. The tax as now introduced involves a 10 per cent increase in the tax payable on property income, but does not apply where the taxable income is below $5,000. 
The claim by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in this debate that this exemption was introduced only in response to the debate initiated by the Opposition on 1 October this year is utterly absurd. The fact is that in the debate, of which we received one hour's notice, Government speakers all mentioned the foreshadowed exemption of taxable incomes below $5,000. It was not introduced in response to initiatives of the Opposition but following reconsideration by the Government preceding 1 October. 
The argument for introducing such a surcharge stems basically from the fact that it represents a means of incorporating property into the tax base. Of course, honourable members opposite, who represent in the main those who are the major owners of income earning property, can be expected to protest vigorously against any tax that brings property into the tax base, but that does not invalidate the argument for it. The possession of property does confer certain advantages on individuals which improve their general state of well-being. This has been succinctly set out in a book entitled 'Taxation in Australia' which was produced some 10 years ago by 4 leading Australian economists in the field of public finance. On page 109 of this book they say: 
There are two reasons for thinking that capacity to pay would be more adequately measured if property, as well as income, were included in the tax base. The first is that the taxable capacity of an individual with a given income is greater if that income is derived from property than from personal exertion, since property income is obtained with less effort and is usually more permanent. The second is that property confers advantages on its owner independent of, and additional to, the income it yields: it serves as a reserve of spending power in emergencies and thus reduces the need to save out of income, it provides security for old age and heirs, it provides opportunities for reducing income tax liability by income-splitting, it gives the owner access to credit, it is a necessary condition of business enterprise, and it confers social status and prestige. 
From this quotation it can be seen that there is a sound philosophical base for such a tax as this property income surcharge. On the same page the authors also say: 
Australia differs from most other Western countries in that it neither differentiates in its income tax between property and personal exertion income nor imposes any separate general tax on property. 
I stress that the authors were saying that we are different from most other Western countries in that we do not do these things. Here, in this Bill, we are doing something on these lines- incorporating property into the tax base by putting a surcharge on property income. In fact, the authors of this book went on to recommend that a wealth tax, or a net worth tax as it is sometimes known, be introduced to this country as it has been in many other countries, including 9 European countries. The United Kingdom is about to become the tenth European country to have such a tax. Of course, the United Kingdom currently has a property income surcharge and that surcharge has operated for many years. 
I personally would also favour a wealth tax on the grounds of equity and greater equality but the fact is that the Government has made no decision at this time to introduce such a tax now or, indeed, in the future. In its absence, however, it is not only justifiable but also highly desirable on grounds of equity that a surcharge be levied on property income. This, in fact, was what was recommended by the authors of the book to which I alluded earlier wherein at page 1 1 3 they state: 
Unless and until a net worth tax is introduced, we suggest reintroduction of a higher differentia! rate of income tax on  property  incomes, such as was in force in Australia until 1953. 
This is what we are doing in this Bill. It is something which was recommended a decade ago by leading Australian economists in the tax field to bring more equity into our tax system. I might say that in recommending that this be done they did not suggest that any problems were likely to be created by way of disincentive for savings and investment such as was mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Of course these sorts of arguments are always thrown up in respect of any proposal which involves a tax on property or which in one way or another could be said to be a disincentive to savings and investment. All manner of arguments would be advanced as to why this should not be done because, basically, the Opposition is concerned to protect the property owners of this country from any further impositions on their income. 
We are not introducing this tax in such a way that it impinges adversely on low income earners. The $5,000 exemption relates to taxable income, not net income, and so it should mean that taxpayers with dependants could earn somewhere near average weekly earnings in gross income before the surcharge would apply to any property income they may have. One other group that could be said to be disadvantaged by this tax embraces retired people. However, to a large extent the $5,000 taxable income exemption will take care of this problem, but for those above this level who consider the tax to be an imposition I suggest they should also bear in mind that if they are not already entitled to a means test free pension they soon will be and in almost all cases a retired pensioner will be better off over all from the means test free benefit and, of course, the property income surcharge. The combination of these two would certainly be to his benefit unless he had an extremely high income from property. In that case I find it difficult to engender a great deal of sympathy for him. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-I ask the Deputy Prime Minister: Is it a fact that Australia's rate of inflation in 1972- the last year of office of the previous Government- was notably above the average inflation rate for all Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries? Can the Minister inform the House whether this disparity has been reduced under the present Government? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Has his attention been drawn to a report that there has not been a very significant real increase in pensions during the Whitlam Government's term of office? Will the Minister inform the House whether there is any validity in this report? Can he indicate the extent to which the real level of pensions has been increased by the present Government? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. I ask this question because today is the sixth anniversary of the judgment in Moore v. Doyle in which the Australian Industrial Court unanimously urged the Australian, New South 
Wales, Queensland, South Australian and Western Australian Attorneys-General to devise a system of trade union organisation which would enable the one body to represent its relevant members in both the Federal and State arbitration systems. I ask the Prime Minister whether any of the 4 States have acted on  Mr Justice  Sweeney's recommendations for meeting the situation, which were included in his report tabled on 1 August last, and whether any of them have passed legislation to complement the Act passed by this Parliament 4 months ago. 
-At the outset I point out that I shall be speaking generally in relation to the economy. But before doing so I should perhaps mention that the Bills encompass substantial amounts of money for the reconstruction of Darwin, for various employment creating activities such as the Regional Employment Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme and, in particular, for payments to the States. Other speakers on the Government side will, of course, be speaking about particular facets of the Bill but I shall be talking in general economic terms, as indeed did the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch). 
No one on this side of the House regards the economic situation at the moment as being very satisfactory. Indeed, with inflation running at 16 per cent over the last 12 months and unemployment at 4 per cent now, no one on this side could be at all happy about the state of economic affairs in this country. But I should say immediately that we do derive some comfort from the fact- and it is relevant to state this; I shall explain the relevance- that other countries in the world which are at a similar level of economic development are in much the same state. The relevance of this is that it shows that there is something which transcends the boundaries of Australia which is affecting the economic behaviour of countries similarly structured to ourselves. This is something which the Opposition continually tries to ignore or distort whenever it refers to it, but it is extremely relevant. It does not mean that the Australian Government can simply say: OK, other countries are in trouble. Therefore we can wash our hands and let things go because other countries are in the same situation. We can blame it on the system'. We can say that it is a relevant factor, but it is not the only factor. Indeed we agree that the Government needs to take particular action to try to overcome the situation which it faces and it has taken much action to try to rectify the situation. I shall refer to this matter later. 
I would like to refer in some detail to the fact that other countries are in a similar situation to ourselves. As I have said, the Opposition likes to ignore this factor. In the pale white document which the Opposition produced called the National Economic Program 1975' which went over like a lead balloon at the opening of Parliament this year, the following comment was made in page 36:   the ratio of Australia's inflation rate relative to its long-term average is more pronounced than for every major OECD economy. 
If I may interpolate, OECD stands for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which is made up of all developed countries of the Western world and includes the countries of Western Europe, North America, Japan, New Zealand and ourselves. That quotation is a distortion of the realities which in fact face this country at the moment. Indeed, it is a distortion of what has occurred in the last few years. The authors of the Opposition's booklet have taken a long term average which is produced in an OECD table which looks at the period up to 1 97 1 . They ignore the last 2 years of the Liberal Government, that is, 1971 and 1972. If we look at the last 2 years, that is, 1 973 and 1 974, during which this country has been under a Labor Government we find that our efforts in relation to inflation have been no worse and, inded, marginally better as compared with the rest of the world than occurred in the last 2 years of Liberal Government. This is something which has been continually pushed aside and ignored but it is in fact the reality. 
I would like to refer to some figures that I have in front of me from a publication of the OECD, dated 10 February 1975, from Paris where the OECD is headquartered. In 1971 the rate of inflation in Australia was 6. 1 per cent, which was higher than the OECD average of 5.3 per cent. The ratio was 1.5 times the OECD average. In the next year, 1972 Australia was 1.21 times the OECD average. Our rate was again higher than the average of the rates of all similar countries in the Western capitalist world. 
Let the honourable member for Corangamite wait a moment. Australia's rate of inflation in 1973 was 1.20 times the OECD average. It was less than the rate in 1 972 by' a very marginal factor. In 1974 it was 1.14 times the OECD average. In other words, we have improved under Labor relative to the rest of the OECD countries. This is a very relevant factor which members of the Opposition hate to hear expressed because they do not like it at all. But it is in fact very relevant. " 
It is in fact a very relevant factor. If the honourable member will be quiet for a moment I will explain why it is so relevant. It is relevant because it shows that under Labor the rate of inflation, although it has gone up substantiallyand no one in the Government likes it - 
-It is a fact that it has gone up less than the average of all the similar countries in the Western world. I know that the honourable member does not like the facts. 
MrWILLIS-butitisthefact.thesamething relates to unemployment. We hear a tremendous amount about unemployment from the Opposition. No one on this side of the House likes the fact that we have had a substantial increase in unemployment in the last 6 months or so, but it is relevant to note again that this has happened elsewhere. The rate of unemployment has increased dramatically in most other countries of the Western world. I would just like to refer to a few Press releases because it is very hard to get up to date figures on unemployment through regular economic statistics. I shall read a few Press releases relating to unemployment in other developed countries. An article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 31 January 1975, under the heading, 'W. German jobless top 1.1 mil. 'stated: 
The number of unemployed rose to more than one million in West Germany this month- the highest for 16 years, the Finance Ministry announced here today. 
The total of jobless was 1 150 000-an increase of 200 000 since last month and about 5 per cent of the labour force. 
I will not read the rest of that article which shows that in West Germany, which traditionally has had a very low rate of unemployment, there has been a dramatic increase in unemployment in the last few months. 
An article which appeared in the Melbourne Herald' of 16 February 1975 under the heading U.S. expects 9 per cent jobless' stated: 
U.S. unemployment could reach 9 per cent this year, even with massive tax reductions, two economists have warned Congress. 

 Mr Michael Evans,  president  of the Chase Manhattan Bank economic affiliate, said the economy would be better off if nothing were done for it rather than adopt  President  Ford 's economic program. 
Unemployment stood at 8.2 per cent of the U.S. work force in January. 

 Mr Evans told a joint Congressional economic committee that the figure could rise to 8.8 per cent this year and 8.6 per cent in 1976 even if Congress rejected the Ford program. 
An article appearing in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 22 January 1975, headed 'Jobless leap in France', stated: 
The number of unemployed in France has risen to its highest level since World War II. 
At the end of December 723 000 were out of work. This was 34 000 up on November and 263 000 higher than December 1973. 
In the 'Australian' of 20 January 1975 an article headed 'Japan's jobless total reaches 1 mil' stated: 
Unemployment in Japan has reached one million with almost 2 per cent of the work force of about50 million actively seeking jobs, the Government's Economic Planning 
Agencysaidyesterday. 
The announcement was a shock to Government officials. The Ministry of Labour earlier had predicted that one million Japanese would be out of work during the JanuaryMarch period but had not expected the figure to be reached so quickly. 
I shall skip a paragraph of the article. The next paragraph reads: 
The last official unemployment figures were for November 30 when an estimated 700 000 people were out of work. 
In other words the figure rose by 300 000 in one month. So it is clear, without going through figures of any of the other countries, that there has been a dramatic increase in unemployment in these other similarly developed countries in the Western world in the last few months, and that is an extraordinarily relevant factor to what is happening in this country today. The problems are clearly world wide. They transcend politics. To describe what is happening in this country as something that is attributable to socialism or some excesses of left wing politics, as some people in this House try to do, is an absurdity in the light of what is happening in other countries where there are anything but left wing governmentssuch places as United States, Japan and France. West Germany does have social democratic government but someone argued about how left wing it was. 
How do these factors come about? They are, despite what the Opposition wants to believe, again largely international in their origin. Other factors have come into it since but the origin is largely international. If I may just quote again the Opposition's pale white paper of earlier this year, on page 38 it says:  . . there is no convincing evidence that external conditions have been the primary influence behind either the acceleration in inflation or the deterioration in growth and unemployment. 
That competely and utterly contradicts what other much more reputable bodies than the Liberal Party of Australia are saying about the world economic situation. If I may refer to one which I think would be regarded as respectable by the Opposition, I mention the International Monetary Fund which in its annual report for 1974 had a few words to say about inflation. I refer to page 8 of that report. Under the heading Factors in the Current Inflation'- I wish the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  would listen to this- it says: 
While the inflation problem is thus being widely addressed at the national level, as indeed is essential, the origins and continuing dynamics of the present inflation must to a great extent be understood in a global framework. 
I stress the words, 'must to a great extent be understood in a global framework'. It continues: 
The rapid inflation of prices now in process is world-wide and appears to differ from most prior experience in several important respects. 
I have not the time to go through the whole of what is said there. If I may summarise, it refers to the fact that in 1973 there was the usual coincidence of most of the Western world having an upward phase in the business cycle and that was the first time it had happened in the postwar period. It also refers at the same time to the increase in commodity prices which was utterly dramatic in 1973. If I may quote again from that report at the bottom of page 8: 
As described in the next section of this chapter, the upsurge of commodity prices since 1972 has no parallel with earlier peacetime experience- a fact suggesting that to some extent these big increases were independent of the general process of inflation in the world economy. 
So it is clear from what is said by the International Monetary Fund, which is surely regarded by the Opposition as a fairly respectable body, that it sees the rapid growth of inflation in the last couple of years as being attributable in large measure to world wide factors and not to the excesses of left wing socialism or anything else. This is again a tremendously relevant factor to what is happening in this country. International factors have been obviously of great importance and they account for the massive growth in world wide inflation which we have experienced. On top of the commodity prices that we had towards the end of 1973 was an increase in oil prices which had less effect here than elsewhere but still had an important effect on Australia. In 1974 the rate of inflation picked up again on top of what had happened in 1973 because of the very understandable factors which happen once inflation gets under way in any economy. It has happened here as elsewhere. Everyone starts to try to protect themselves against the rate of inflation, and this includes wage earners along with everybody else. Even pensioners want higher increases in pensions to cover themselves against inflation, and very understandably so. Wage earners were particularly successful in 1974 in getting wage increases which more than covered themselves against inflation because they were fearful of the continuing rate of inflation and tried to anticipate what was going to occur, and understandably so. I do not blame them in the least. They were doing no more than anyone else in the economy was trying to do to protect themselves against inflation, but the facts are that it did' have the effect of furthering our rate of inflation in 1 974. 
If I may refer again to unemployment for a moment, here as elsewhere its rapid growth rate in 1974 must be attributed to the rapid rate of growth in inflation and at the same time measures which were taken by this Government, along with most other Western governments, to offset it. All of them felt, following the dramatic increase in inflation in 1973, that measures had to be taken to offset inflation and they took those measures with consequent adverse effects on employment. The consequence of this action was a dramatic increase in unemployment, but the point is that we are playing with new rules. No one has really understood what was happening up to this point in time. Up to the last year or so, in most of the Western world we have not envisaged the concurrent happening of substantial inflation and rapid growth of unemployment. It has usually been one or the other, but now we are playing in a new economic ball park and the rules are different. The most sophisticated economists in this country and in most other countries are battling to understand what the new rules are. An obvious example of this is the Treasury of this country which in July last year recommended to the Government a substantial Budget surplus as a means of overcoming the increasing rate of inflation. The Government in its wisdom decided not to go ahead with a Budget surplus. It produced basically a fairly neutral budget- one with a very mild surplusbut if it had gone for the dramatic Budget surplus which the most sophisticated group of economists in the country was recommending that it undertake, it would have produced a much more dramatic growth in unemployment than has in fact occurred because the Treasury- I do not blame it but this is a fact- did not understand what was happening in this country, and it was not Robinson Crusoe. 
The economists in most other countries in the Western world did not understand it either because the rules of the game have changed. I suggest that one basic way in which they have changed is this: Employers, no longer in a situation of slack demand, feel reluctant about pushing for increases in prices. What they do now if their costs continue to rise and they are faced with a squeeze on their profit margins, is to go for increases in prices and then apply political pressures for a restimulation of demand. One factor which they have in mind, here as elsewhere and particularly in this country I suggest, is the fact that they know that no government can allow unemployment to exist for any great length of time, and particularly a government which does not have a majority in the Senate. In saying that, I am not trying to say that this Government would allow unemployment to increase anyway but it is a fact of life. You cannot allow unemployment to increase and survive politically. McMahon learned that in 1972. We know it now and I suggest that we are intrinsically much more upset and disgusted by unemployment than the Opposition is, but it is a political fact of life which everyone knows now anyway. So the name of the game has changed somewhat and employers, in the face of rising costs with slack demand, push up their prices and then say to the Government: Now you get us out of this'. 
This Government has in fact taken the kind of action which is necessary to restore us to full employment. It has taken a whole series of dramatic action, firstly by rejecting Treasury advice, but since the appearance of the growth of unemployment it has taken dramatic action. It has turned the Budget around from a neutral Budget to a Budget with a deficit of well over $2,000m and in doing so has had in mind the need to get us back to somewhere near full employment. Because of the restrictions of time I will not go through the various measures which have been taken, but I must say that in doing that the Government has not forgotten about the problem of inflation. It has realised that in the last year or so one of the factors which have accelerated the rate of inflation over and above the factors which operated in 1973 which are the basic motivations for the acceleration of inflation, that is, the international factors, has been the substantial jump in wages in 1974. The Government does not blame wage earners for that. It realises the factors which brought that about. It has taken appropriate action to offset it. Those actions are two-fold. One relates to taxaton. In 1973-74 by keeping the tax schedules constant wage earners, despite their dramatic increases in wages, in fact had no increases in their real take-home pay in the way it is normally measured. They in fact did receive various benefits through increased Government spending, but those benefits are not immediately realisable to wage earners, and the process of educating them in respect of the kinds of improvements which can come to their real standards through increased government expenditure is a long term one. They must realise- I believe that they have felt and realised this- that their real standards are not improving. The Government has overcome that factor in relation to the increased tax bite by cutting taxes dramatically. They have been cut to the extent of $ 1,000m in this year. 
The second approach is the wage indexation approach. We are saying to the wageearners: We are supporting you in the Arbitration Commission in your claim for a system of indexation to apply to wages so that you will not have to anticipate accelerating rates of inflation'. We will give them a guarantee that their wages will be increased in line with inflation, and therefore their real wages will be maintained. This approach contrasts dramatically with the attitude of the Opposition. The attitude of the Opposition, as expounded recently by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is the Opposition's spokesman on industrial matters, is one of opposing indexation. It is one of going for the big bash, increasing fines imposed on unions, going back to the halcyon days, as it sees it, of pre- 1969 when it could drag unions up before the Industrial Court, fine them and generally adopt draconian measures to create pessures against wage earners. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-These Bills, as the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  has said, seek to implement part of an economic package determined by the Government in late January to avoid retrenchment of thousands of workers in the motor industry. That package, which was determined following a series of discussions with the car manufacturing companies of this country from midDecember to late January, involved 3 things: Firstly, a reduction in the sales tax on passenger vehicles for 3 months and gradual restoration over the next three or four months; secondly, a decision to repeal the tax on the net standby value to employees of the use of company cars; and thirdly, the imposition of import quotas. 
These Bills are concerned with the sales tax cuts and the repeal of the tax on the standby value of company cars. In discussing them it is gratifying to know that they have already had the effect, since they were announced on 29 January, of stimulating sales of new cars in quite a dramatic fashion. Although it is difficult to obtain any figures on the rate of increase in new car sales since 29 January we know from industry sources that sales accelerated remarkably during February. The Press is full of stories of dealers and manufacturers telling us that the market is running hot and will remain so for at least another few months. This picture forms a vivid contrast with the market up to January of this year which, for Australian produced cars in particular, was a dismal catalogue of declining demand and vast stockpiles of completed but unsold cars. 
I turn to consider the factors that brought about this difficult situation and the need for government action embodied in these Bills. But before looking at the underlying causes I should say at this stage that the precipitating factor leading to intense government-industry discussions and this package of stimulatory measures was the threat by General Motors-Holden 's Ltd to retrench 5000 to 6000 employees; that is, between 15 per cent and 20 per cent of its total workforce. Given that for each person employed by the manufacturers in the car industry another person is employed in the material and components supplying side of the industry, this announcement by GMH was clearly a matter of great importance for the economy. It was also one of the most blatant acts of cynicism that any company has engaged in throughout the entire history of this country. Here we have a company which has amassed vast profits in Australia over the years, which has taken out of Australia something in excess of 1 50 times the amount of capital it ever brought here from its parent company, but which threatened just before Christmas to lay off 20 per cent of its workers and to do so without any redundancy payments. 
This in itself was bad enough. It displayed the completely anti-social nature of a foreign-owned company interested only in screwing as much profit out of Australia as it could. In fact, its action was even more heinous than appears on the surface for this company along with other Australian vehicle manufacturing companies had been engaged, up to only a month previously, in a series of consultations and discussions with the Government concerning the level of protection it should receive for the next 10 years. These discussions had been held at various levels of government- ministerial, advisory, departmental and even at Caucus Economic Committee level. So far as I am aware the companies gave no indication at any time of the likelihood or even the possibility of retrenchment in the near future provided they received something like the protection they were asking for, which was well above that then in existence. 
On 14 November last the Government announced its new protection policy for the industry, which amounted to a virtual guarantee of survival for the Australian motor manufacturing industry. Tariffs were increased from 33 per cent to 45 per cent for completely built-up imports and were to remain at that level for at least 6 months and thereafter until the level of imports fell below 20 per cent of the market. Tariffs on imports of completely knocked down vehicles were increased, rising by 1.5 per cent to 27.5 per cent on 1 January of this year and moving up to 35 per cent over 4 years, during which time volume limitations would apply Untiring the numbers to the 1974 production levels plus 3 per cent per annum on a company basis. Thus the competitive position of locally made cars visavis imports was quite substantially increased by these government decisions. 
The manufacturers generally applauded these moves. General Motors-Holden's in particular publicly welcomed the moves and announced a $18m expansion program, thus giving emphasis to its satisfaction with the new protection levels. But was the company grateful for what had been done? Not one bit of it. Only a month later General Motors was threatening to lay off 20 per cent of its workers without retrenchment pay, and this at a time when there was serious unemployment which meant that those sacked would have little chance of obtaining alternative jobs. This is particularly aggravating when we consider the history of GMH in Australia. It has in fact done extremely well in Australia- far beyond the expectation of its parent company which did not risk one penny of new investment in the Holden project. 
The American parent company, General Motors Corporation, had a total investment in Australia of less than $2m- about $1.9m. That was repaid many times before General MotorsHolden's began producing the Holden car in 1948. In fact the Holden project was financed by the people of Australia in the main through a $5m loan from the Commonwealth Bank. General Motors Corporation would not put one penny into the Holden project. The Bank of 
Adelaide put $500,000 into the project because on the board of directors there was a member of the Holden family who wanted to be part of the project, but basically it was financed by the people of Australia through the Commonwealth Bank. If the Holden project had failed General Motors would not have lost a penny; the people of Australia would have been the losers. What a return General Motors Corporation has had on its no risk investment. 
After all taxes, General Motors-Holden's has made a profit of $489m from 1948 to 1973 and of that amount has sent $300m back home. Thus the original investment has been repaid over 150 times since 1948 and it was already repaid a number of times before that. In these circumstances one would imagine that General MotorsHolden 's would have a sense of responsibility to the society from which it obtained such remarkably good fortune and which had supplied it with the wherewithal to launch such a profitable venture; but such was not the case and if it had not been for the intervention of this Government many General Motors-Holden's employees would now be out of work. However, I make it clear that neither General Motors-Holden's nor the other manufacturing companies have withdrawn their threat to dismiss workers. GMH has reduced the numbers that it says might go from 5000 to 2000 and has said that it would review the situation in 3 months ' time. The other companies said they would review the situation after one month, and that period has now passed. One can only hope that neither Ford nor Chrysler will dismiss anyone at this time, given the fact that their sales have boomed in the last month. 
One other aspect of this rescue operation by the Government which should be mentioned is that the companies have done precious little on their own account to stimulate sales. In the United States of America where vehicle sales have slumped so disastrously that 14 plants have closed down and 200 000 workers have been retrenched, similar action has been taken to stimulate sales; that is, prices have been reduced to attract customers. The difference as compared with Australia is that in the United States the vehicle manufacturing companies themselves have reduced their prices. Here their subsidiaries have left it to the Government to reduce prices by cutting sales tax. The only exception to that in Australia has been the Chrysler company, which reduced the price of its automatic Valiant to that of a manual Valiant, and the Volkswagen company, which reduced the price of an Audi sedan. It was indeed ironic that it was the price of a fully imported sedan- the Audi- that was the first to be cut back in Australia. With one exception it has not been followed by the Australian manufacturers. 
How, then, did the Australian manufacturers come to be in so much trouble with a stockpile of approximately 60 000 completed cars filling up paddocks all over the country? One must acknowledge that the revaluation of 1973 and the 25 per cent tariff cuts together improved the competitive position of the Japanese imports of small cars and so led to their making further inroads into the Australian market. But other factors come into it as well. Firstly, Japanese car sales had been increasing inexorably as a percentage of the total Australian sales before any tariff cuts or revaluations. In 1960 the Japanese had 0. 1 per cent of the market in this country for cars and station wagons. By 1964 that share of the market had gone to 3.9 per cent: By 1969 it was 14.1 per cent and by 1972 it was 19.6 per cent. So, under the previous Liberal-Country Party Governments, there was a rapid and continuous growth in the share of the market going to the Japanese and it was only to be expected that that would continue after 1972. Now that is in fact what has happened, but at an even faster pace, in the last 2 years. In 1973 the Japanese had 27 per cent of the market. By the September quarter of last year they had increased their share of the market to 34 per cent. But the point is that this substantial increase cannot be attributed to tariff cuts and revaluations alone. The continuance of the trend would have notably increased the Japanese share in any case, as consumer tastes continued to change away from the mediumsized car of the Holden, Falcon and Valiant type in favour of the small and medium light cars in which the Japanese are specialists. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour this day. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-When this debate was adjourned almost 4 hours ago, I was discussing the factors, apart from tariff cuts and the revaluation, which accounted for the increase in the share of the market for cars and station wagons going to Japanese vehicles. 
Another factor that also accounts in part for  thissubstantialincreaseintheJapaneseshareof  thissubstantialincreaseintheJapaneseshareof the market is the rapid increase in motoring costs, that is, in the cost of purchasing a car, running it andmaintaining it. Car prices have increased substantially in the last 2 years partly because of the general situation of inflation that has prevailed but also because of the greater amount of safety equipment now built into motor vehicles. The combined effect of these 2 factors has been to push car prices up faster than the general level of prices. This undoubtedly has influenced customers into thinking small, particularly as the cost of financing a car purchase has also increased substantially with higher interest rates that are part and parcel of the inflationary circumstances of our time. Other costs also have increased rapidly as increasing wage costs have raised the price of servicing and maintenance, and insurance costs and registration fees have also been substantially increased. 
The Royal Automobile Association of South Australia has produced some figures which illustrate the extent of the increases that have occurred. Between March and November of last year, the price of a Holden Kingswood 6 cylinder sedan with manual transmission rose 19.7 per cent. Its standing cost- that is, depreciation, interest, registration and insurance- rose by 21.7 per cent. Its running costs were up by 20.3 per cent. For a Valiant Galant, a smaller 4 cylinder car assembled in Australia from Japanese parts, the price rose 20.4 per cent, the standing cost increased by 19.4 per cent and running costs were up by 13.8 per cent. Thus the rate of increase in cost for the small car was much the same as for the Holden vehicle as regards price and standing costs but substantially less with respect to running costs. This differential in favour of the smaller car would not escape the customer, but even with the same rate of increase in all costs there is an incentive to consumers to head towards the smaller ears to try to reduce their motoring costs as those costs become increasingly painful. 
A third factor which is relevant to the increase in the Japanese share of the motor vehicle market is the contraction of the Japanese market and the increasing concentration which results from that factor in export markets, particularly in Australia. Other export markets have diminished with the world wide reduction in the car market which is due substantially to the factors that we are discussing here and also in other countries because of the very substantial increase in the price of petrol. One indication of the intensity with which the Japanese have sought the Australian market is the fact that, despite much higher levels of inflation in Japan than we have in this country, the price of Japanese cars imported to Australia has increased by only approximately 5 per cent. This factor was mentioned in this debate by the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards).  So we can see that the Japanese have been trying to keep their prices down to make their vehicles attractive. This is an additional factor which has helped to increase the share of Japanese cars in the Australian motor vehicle market. 
For these reasons, it is far too simplistic to blame the troubles of the Australian motor manufacturing industry solely on the tariff cut and the revaluation. Indeed, it is difficult not to conclude that the industry itself must accept a substantial part of the responsibility for its present difficulties. It has continued to concentrate on the production of cars from which Australian consumers have been running away in ever larger numbers. Despite the rapid inroads made by the Japanese throughout the 1960s, no Australian manufacturer thought it worth while establishing a 4 cylinder engine plant in this country and concentrating on producing a good competitive Australian made light car to compete with the Japanese. Instead, General MotorsHolden 's Pty Ltd has gone the other way, towards 8 cylinder engine production, which surely represented a remarkable misreading of the trends in consumer tastes. 
Also right throughout the 1960s, at the same time as the Japanese increased their share of the market with small light efficient cars, the Australian producers have made their basic 6 cylinder cars longer, heavier, and more powerful, and consequently more out of time with the market. They seem to have imagined that they could dictate to consumers what sort of car they would purchase and that the car that they decided on should be a largish six or eight cylinder vehicle. It is a basic maxim of the American car industry that the bigger the car the bigger the profit. There is no doubt that the subsidiaries of that industry in Australia have tried to implement that maxim. However, the basic realities of economics and common sense have prevailed with the consumer, and Australian manufacturers are left with massive investment in facilities for producing cars which are less and less attractive to the customers. 
The industry is also to blame for its troubles through its refusal to concentrate on a basic model and to try to make it profitable by a low cost brought about by efficiencies of large scale production. Various studies have shown that for one model of car costs of production per unit can be reduced by increasing the volume of production up to at least 400 000 units a year. Some studies have suggested that the economies can be again up to one million units a year. 
The other inefficiency of the Australian industry is shown by the fact that manufacturers in Australia have a total market for cars and station wagons of less than 500 000. We have several vehicle manufacturing firms with a variety of assemblers battling for that market of 500 000 vehicles, along with fully imported vehicles. In these circumstances, it is possible to obtain efficient production on a world scale. But the companies have compounded the problem by insisting on producing several models and then breaking the market up further by a bewildering array of options. Of course, this is, and has been, the easy way to make good profits. On the pretext of giving the customer exactly what he wants these companies have offered high priced options which substantially improve the profitability of their operations but reduce the efficiency of the industry. 
Now, however, consumers are running away from this kind of motoring in droves with the result that the industry has a massive stockpile of cars, and the Government has had to prop it up through increased tariffs, import quotas and the measures contained in this Bill. Clearly, what is needed in this industry is some substantial restructuring which will produce an efficient industry concentrating on a small number of models of the type of car which the people want. In this connection I applaud the Government's attempts to induce the Japanese to begin manufacturing in this country. If this can be achieved at the same time as the number of manufacturers of medium sized cars is reduced, the people of Australia will have been well served. I support the Bill. 
I address a question to the Treasurer concerning the measures taken by the Government earlier this year to revive the motor car industry. Can the Treasurer inform the House to what extent the industry's fortunes have been restored since the measures were implemented? 
-As I understand this debate on this matter of public importance the Opposition is claiming that the Government is doing the country a grave disservice by increasing the money supply at a rate in excess of 20 per cent per annum. This has come about strangely. Indeed, one is almost amazed by the sheer gall of the members of the Opposition in claiming that when in the last 6 months in which they were in government in this country, the money supply increased at the rate of 17 per cent, which represents an annual rate of increase of 34 per cent. I ask the House to contemplate this fact: We have a matter of public importance being debated in which we are being berated for increasing the money supply at a rate in excess of 20 per cent when in the last 6 months of its term of office the previous Liberal-Country Party Government raised the money supply at an annual rate of 34 per cent. Surely that indicates some large degree of hypocrisy on the part of the Opposition in this debate. The fact is that in 1 972 as well the level of unemployment was not as high as it is at the moment and therefore there was possibly less reason for having such a substantial increase in the money supply at that time. 
Another feature of this debate has been the fact that members of the Opposition have been embracing quite firmly the theories of Professor Friedman, an American economist who is visiting this country at the moment and who is getting some degree of notoriety. I think that perhaps they have not thought through exactly what Professor Friedman is all about because Professor Friedman said as recently as last night in the television program 'Monday Conference' that Australia's inflation problems stem from the previous Government's refusal to revalue the Australian dollar in 1971. 1 wish to quote a short excerpt from the transcript of that program. It shows Professor Friedman as saying: 
If you go back a few years in Australia it was the unwillingness of the Government to permit the exchange rate to alter that forced the first of your major inflationary episodes in 1971 and 1972 when, the Australian dollar being undervalued, you had a large foreign income and it was very difficult, almost impossible, for your monetary authorities to control the money supply . . . 
Here we have the same Professor Friedman as is so beloved by the members of the Opposition who have taken part in this debate saying that in fact the previous Government was at fault for allowing the money supply to increase rapidly because it refused to devalue the Australian dollar in 1971, which was the basic cause of the increase in inflation at that time and which has been since. Another factor which is a part of Professor Friedman's theories is that if one allows the increase in the money supply to accelerate it will be inflationary but there is a time lag and that time lag is quite long. In fact, in an article he produced entitled 'Monetary Corrections', which was printed as Occasional Paper 4 1 of the Institute of Economic Affairs in London, he said that thai time delay was between 18 months and 2 years. So those members of the Opposition who have been so concerned to embrace the theories of Professor Friedman are in fact saying that a substantial amount of the inflation that has flowed through in the last 2 years since the rapid increase in the expansion of the money supply in the last 6 months of 1972 has been largely because of that rapid increase in the money supply. That is what he says. He says that a rapid increase in the money supply is followed by inflation and it takes up to 2 years to have its real effect. So those members of the Opposition who are embracing the theories of Professor Friedman can sit back and accept all the blame for the inflation that has occurred over the last 2 years. I wonder whether they really want to do that. 
Perhaps the Opposition has not quite thought Professor Friedman right through. I suggest that it should contemplate some of the other things he has had to say. 1 wonder whether the Opposition accepts Professor Friedman's embracing of the idea that wages should be indexed. I have heard a number of Opposition speakers- not the least being the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)-  suggest in this House that the indexation of wages would be disastrous. A basic tenet of Professor Friedman's thesis is that wages should be indexed. He says that that would not be inflationary. Is that the Opposition's policy? Professor Friedman says that Government bonds and interest rates should be indexed. I have not heard any of the Opposition spokesmen on this subject, but perhaps it is the Opposition 's policy. If so, it seems to sit strangely with the Opposition's idea that interest rates should be reduced. Perhaps it is the Opposition's policy. We will wait and see about that. I wonder whether the Opposition agrees with Professor Friedman's view that tariffs, subsidies and price support schemes should be abolished? I wonder whether the Australian Country Party would like to embrace that part of Professor Friedman's theories? I suggest that the Opposition, in embracing Professor Friedman's comments, has not really thought about the issue too much and that it has a lot more homework to do before it expounds him as its basic philosopher in the future. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch ) has again trotted out in this debate the hoary old one about the Labor Government using inflation to tax by stealth by forcing taxpayers to seek wages increases that will move them up the tax scale into higher and higher tax brackets and therefore effectively increase the taxes imposed on them. Yes, this has happened. In the 1 973-74 period there was certainly a substantial increase in the tax burden on people. Since then, of course, there has been a substantial reduction in taxation and there will be no such increase in the tax burden in 1974-75. But again one is amazed at the hypocrisy of the Opposition because in almost every year from 1949, which is when the previous Labor Government went out of office, until 1972 the burden of income tax and taxation on wage earners in fact increased. In 1949-50 the tax paid by a worker in receipt of the average weekly earnings who had a wife and 2 children to keep was about 2.9 per cent of his total income. By 1972 that had gone up to about 15.5 per cent by, as I have said, almost annual increases brought about by the same process as the one we are now being berated for allowing to occur. Of course, it is not occurring at the moment. 
Of course we need a deficit at the moment. The alternative is to let the level of unemployment increase even further than it is at present and to let the unemployment situation remain longer. Is that what the Opposition really wants? In other debates on matters of public importance the Opposition has berated the Government for the level of unemployment and for allowing unemployment to exist. It is now attacking the Government for taking measures which are designed to offset the increase in the level of unemployment and to reduce it quickly. That is what the deficit is all about. By opposing an increase in the deficit the Opposition is in fact saying that the Government should allow unemployment to continue and should just ride out the recession. Maybe that is the Opposition's policy. Indeed Professor Friedman would agree with it on that. But if that is the Opposition's policy it should tell the people that it believes that the Government should allow the unemployment situation to continue and perhaps get worse and not do anything effective about it in this way. Of course, when honourable members opposite were in government and the unemployment rate increased substantially they would eventually, for electoral reasons if for no other reason, resort to deficit financing in order to expand output and employment opportunities and to get back out of a recession. That is what the Government is doing at this time. The adoption of any other policy would mean that we would not be trying to stimulate output, that we would not be trying to stimulate employment and that we would be allowing the unemployment situation to continue. That is not the policy of the Government. Therefore we have a substantial deficit- indeed, a quite high deficit- at this time in an attempt to overcome the unemployment problem. 
Perhaps 1 should say just quickly that the unemployment factor may be somewhat overstated by the Commonwealth Employment Service's statistics as another set of statistics has now been published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics which shows that the level of unemployment in 
February of people seeking full time work was something like 54 000 less than is shown by the Commonwealth Employment Service's figures. This is something which needs examining but there is no time to do so in this debate. The Government does not intend that this deficit would remain forever. Of course, this is not a policy which we are adopting to continue year after year. It is a policy which is appropriate to the times, times in which there is substantial unemployment which we are trying to eradicate. As both the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said, we must be flexible and adopt appropriate measures for the times, and in the rather volatile world we live in we need to be very flexible. At the moment we have adopted a substantial Government deficit. This is not something that the Government can allow to continue forever. It would be substantially inflationary if we were operating somewhere near full employment, but because we are not doing that this policy is quite appropriate to the times. 
-This debate is remarkable for the fact that members of the Opposition seem intent on discussing what is not in the Bill rather than what is in it even though they have been assured by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in his second reading speech that there will be a Bill produced in the near future which will cover these aspects of privacy which so concern them in the debate today. It is a pleasure for me to rise to support this Bill because it aims to improve statistical services. As one who for 13 years before coming to this House was concerned with statistics in my day to day employment I am a believer in having a wealth of good statistics. 
The Government also, of course, is anxious to get substantial improvement in statistics to enable it to operate more effectively in an increasingly dynamic world. At first glance the Bill may not appear to make very substantial changes. In fact it does provide a framework in which substantial improvements can be brought about, but that may not be obvious at first glance and perhaps that is why the Opposition wants continually to talk about things which are not in the Bill. 
At the moment the situation is that we have a Census and Statistics Act which established a Commonwealth Statistician but does not provide a title for his unit, even though his staff is bigger than those of two-thirds of all the Australian Government departments. Until recently the Commonwealth Statistician's unit was known as the Bureau of Census and Statistics. It took its name presumably from the Census and Statistics Act and it operated as a section of the Treasury. It has recently been renamed by the Government as the Bureau of Statistics so it has lost the census title. I do not think this was removed because of any feeling by the Government that it may incur divine displeasure by leaving it there. Of course, the unit has been shifted from the Treasury to the Department of the Special Minister of State. 
The Bill involves a number of factors. The first is the formal change in the name of the Statistician from Commonwealth Statistician to Australian Statistician and the formal naming of the Bureau as the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Secondly, it sets out the function of the Bureau and the rights and obligations of the Statistician. Thirdly, it establishes the Bureau as a statutory body with the functions of a central statistical authority. Fourthly, it establishes an Australian 
Statistical Advisory Council. Fifthly, it details the functions of that Council and the terms and conditions on which its members take office. Finally it provides that the Statistician and the Advisory Council shall report to the Parliament annually. 
The Bill stems from the recommendations made by the Committee on Integration of Data Systems, now known as the Crisp Committee. The Committee reported to the Government last year. It was established by the Government in December 1 973. The reason for its establishment was that the Government was concerned about the adequacy of the data base for its program of economic and structural change. The Government believed that current statistical information was inadequate for a government in this volatile world and particularly for a government endeavouring to radically reform the economic and social structure of the country. It therefore established the Committee to recommend means of improving a statistical information base. 
The members of the Committee, apart from Professor Crisp, were  Dr Brogan,  who is adviser to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam), Mr Brown,  who is the representative of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia,  Mr Jolly  from the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Professor Wallace, who is Professor of Information Science at Monash University. The Committee consulted all Australian Government departments and all State governments except Queensland. I have not been able to ascertain why it did not consult Queensland but I suspect that the reluctance for consultation was on the part of the State of Queensland rather than on the part of the Committee. Perhaps the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  can tell us something about that. The Committee also had discussions with various other government agencies, firms and individuals. The Committee eventually made a series of wide ranging recommendations of which twenty-two require amendments to the existing Census and Statistics Act. The matters which are contained in this Bill incorporate some of those recommendations but there is still a large number which are not incorporated in this Bill and, as the Minister has said, these will come later on. 
I commend the Government for its initiative in establishing this committee of inquiry. I think that this step bears out the relevance of having such committees of inquiry established. The Opposition from time to time enjoys knocking the Government for establishing various royal commissions and committees of inquiry and talks about the waste of manpower involved. But in fact bodies such as this provide the Government with a sensible and well informed base on which to bring down appropriate legislation. This committee of inquiry is a very good example of the importance of having such committees. 
The Committee gave detailed reasons in its report as to why the various matters contained in this legislation should be introduced. Firstly, the change in the name of the Bureau and the Statistician is a fairly minor matter. The Committee simply said, in the case of the Bureau, that this recommendation would formalise the change that already had in fact occurred in regard to changing the word 'Commonwealth' to 'Australian ' which is purely Government policy at the moment. Therefore it recommended that this change should be adopted. It also recommended that the word 'Census' should be dropped from the title of the Bureau. This is a logical step given that there are many ways in which a bureau of statistics could go about obtaining its data and census is only one of these methods. Therefore there is no particular reason why one of those methods should be reflected in the title. 
Secondly, the recommendation in regard to the establishment of the Bureau as a separate statutory body with a role as the central statistical authority for the Australian Government was probably the major recommendation of the Committee and it stemmed from its analysis of the present shortcomings and inadequacies of our statistical services. It found that the major deficiencies resulted from separate departmental collections which have developed independently of the Bureau and independently of each other. We have different government departments pursuing the same kind of information but gathering it quite independently of each other. An instance given of this was that several departments and agencies collect data about the performance of individual industries or groups of industries but that this data is difficult to compare because it is collected in different ways, using different definitions and classifications. These separate collections are wasteful and quite inefficient. They cause annoyance and increased costs to firms which may be asked to supply the same data to various departments but perhaps in different forms. Of course, apart from being annoying, this is very costly. 
The Committee on the Integration of Data Systems found that these separate and often incompatible departmental systems have developed because there is no statutory authority with power to co-ordinate the statistical efforts of individual departments and no central authority to advise or decide upon the allocation of priorities among urgent and competing needs. Thus, it recommended strongly that an Australian Bureau of Statistics be established as a centralised statistical authority with power to set standards for governmental statistical systems and to coordinate the data collection activities of other departments or authorities. Of course, this legislation implements that recommendation by establishing the Bureau of Statistics as a statutory authority with a central co-ordinating role. It is worthy of note that most other advanced countries have a centralised statistical authority. About the only exceptions that one can find to this amongst the advanced economies in the Western world are the United States of America and Great Britain. However, the British are moving towards a more centralised system and are doing so for exactly the same reasons as this legislation is being brought before the House today. 
In regard to the establishment of an Australian Statistical Advisory Council, the Committee considered that such a body was necessary to provide effective machinery outside the Bureau for determining priorities. It recommended that a body, mainly comprising representatives of important users of official statistics, should be established to advise the Government on its statistical priorities. This is an important task, given the pressures on the Bureau from various sources to produce an ever-increasing range and depth of statistics. It is physically impossible for the Bureau to do all that is requested of it. Therefore, priorities have to be determined by some authority. If the Bureau itself were to determine them, that might be quite unfair to the users of statistics. It is better that there be some kind of overseeing body which can represent the views of the various users of statistics and advise the Government about the appropriate priorities. 
It is also interesting to note that the establishment of a Council such as this in fact was approved in principle by previous Australian Cabinets. In 1970 and 1972 a Liberal-Country Party Cabinet approved the establishment of such a Council, but did not act on the matter. This Government has decided to establish such a Council. The Committee also recommended the establishment of a Statutory Committee on Statistical Co-ordination. As I understand it, this would be an IDC- an interdepartmental committeeto determine priorities in the short run. The idea of the Australian Statistical Advisory Council was that it would determine long term priorities. But it was thought that, if for some reason priorities had to be determined in a hurry because of an emergency, a change of government policy requiring new information or a change in the priorities for the collection of existing information, there should be some body which could offer advice in the short run in an emergency. So the Committee suggested the establishment of a Statutory Committee on Statistical Co-ordination. I would be interested if the Special Minister of State could inform us in his reply whether the Government has established such a Committee or intends to do so. 
There has been a big improvement in the gathering of statistics in recent years. As one who has been interested in a wide range of economic statistics, let me say that it has been a pleasure to note the adoption of a wide-ranging seasonal adjustment process in a whole range of economic statistics, the greater use of producing economic series in constant prices and latterly the adoption for the first time of a household expenditure survey. It was a glaring gap in our statistical repertoire that we did not have a household expenditure survey, although most other advanced countries had been conducting them for many years. Without such an expenditure survey it is difficult to determine all sorts of matters. In particular, it is difficult to work out how people change their expenditure given a change in the size of families or an increase in income. It is obviously important for a government which is concerned about poverty to have some idea of the way in which expenditure changes with increased income for a given family size. A survey such as this is a source of enormous information for a Government. It is really a condemnation of the previous Government that it never at any stage gave the Bureau the resources to enable it to conduct a household expenditure survey. Such a survey is under way now. 
However, there is still room for much better statistics. We hope that this Bill will help the collection of statistics to improve greatly. One area in which it is obvious that there is a substantial need for increased statistics is the consumer price index. This index is quite fundamental to the economic policy of the Government. This is true of any government and it is something in which we are all very interested. Yet, compared with the information collected in other countries, the information that we collect about increases in consumer prices is perhaps lacking in a number of respects. Most other countries in the Western world produce a monthly consumer price index. The Bureau recently has been able to expand its activities so that it can give us monthly movements in food prices, but we still have the consumer price index produced on only a quarterly basis. Also, it relates only to the 6 State capital cities plus Canberra, although the weighted figure is for only the capital cities of the 6 States. No figure is collected for movements in consumer price indexes in various large provincial cities. If we are really to find out how prices are moving across the nation as a whole we should be looking at more than just the 6 State capital cities. Obviously, this is something which will need rectification in the future if we are to have a more perfect idea of the rate of inflation in this country. It is also a fact that we change the base of the index only every 4 or 5 years; that is, we look at the re-weighting of the basket only every 4 or 5 years. Other countries do it as often as every year. Just in this one area of the consumer price index a whole range of improvements can be made. 
Therefore, it is important that the Government not only establishes a Bureau which is a central statistical authority and which can co-ordinate proper statistics but also that the Government gives it the manpower and money with which it can pursue the other improvements which are worthwhile and needed if the Government is to be able to operate as efficiently as possible and to determine its economic policies in the light of the best available knowledge. Therefore, I commend this Bill to the House as one which will bring about substantial improvements in our statistics. I suggest that members of the Opposition would be better employed in worrying about other aspects of the matter which are not included in this Bill, when the second Bill which has been mentioned comes before the Parliament later this year. 
I should like to spend my time replying to the doomsayer from South Australia but I had hoped to spend my time tonight looking at something which concerns us all in this Parliament- unemployment. In this House, in this debate and in previous debates in the last month or two, the Opposition has continually berated this Government for allowing unemployment to the level of 300 000 or so to occur. I want to look at the matter of the measurement of unemployment and to suggest that the figure of 300 000 is a gross exaggeration of the real level of unemployment in this country at the present time. The measure of unemployment generally used in this House and outside is the number of registered unemployed as shown by the Commonwealth Employment Service, the CES- I will use that abbreviation. These figures are compiled every month and they measure the number of persons registered at the end of each month with the CES who claimed, when registering, that they were not employed and who were seeking full-time employment, which is defined as 35 hours a week or more. The latest figures are for the March quarter and they show 270 784 persons unemployed on this measure. 
However, there is another measure of unemployment, and that is the labor force survey which is compiled by the Bureau of Statistics. It is conducted quarterly using a sampling technique, and the sample covers almost 30 000 private and non-private dwellings. It defines as unemployed those civilians aged 15 years or more who, during the whole of the week prior to the interview, did no work at all because they did not have a job but were actively seeking work and those who did no work at all because they were temporarily laid off from their jobs for the whole week. It comprises, therefore, those looking for full-time work, those looking for part-time work and those temporarily laid off from either fulltime or part-time jobs. In this measure, the latest figures available are for the month of February 1 975. Those figures show the total number of unemployed as being 286 200. This compares with the CES figure for the month of February of 297 747. So the survey figures were 1 1 547 less than the CES figures for the same month, which is the last time for which we can make a comparison. 
Therefore, in this country there are these 2 measures of unemployment and the survey figures are just as valid as the CES figures. Indeed, I believe they are more valid. In the past, the concentration has always been on the CES figures, even though the survey figures have been published quarterly for some years. This has been due to the fact that the survey figures were produced only quarterly and, more importantly, they became available only some 3 or 4 months after the survey was undertaken. As from this year, though, they are available within 3&amp; weeks of the end of the survey month, so they are of much greater relevance than previously. If we have 2 such measures of unemployment and they do not produce the same result it is important to know which is the more accurate and reliable and also to understand why there are differences in the levels of unemployment that they record. 
In attempting to explain these matters may I firstly say that, if one is comparing like with like, then one should not compare the total levels of unemployment produced by the 2 methods, because their definitions full-time are different. The CES figures relate only to the unemployed workers seeking full-time full-time the total survey figures, which I have already given for February 1975, include unemployed workers seeking part-time work as well as those seeking full-time work. Fortunately, the survey figures are broken up as between full-time work seekers and part-time work seekers. We can, therefore, compare the numbers of unemployed workers seeking full-time work as shown by each of the 2 methods. For February, once the part-time work seekers are excluded, the survey shows the numbers of unemployed workers seeking fulltime work as 243 600, which compares with 297 747 shown by the CES. Thus the survey figures are some 54 000 less than those produced by the CES. 
But this is not the end of it. The survey figures are really an average of the whole of the month of February, as they are obtained from interviews conducted each week in February. The CES figures, though, are taken at the end of the month. So if we compare the CES figure for February with the survey figure for that month we are comparing an end of the month figure with a figure that is an average for the month. To overcome this and make the comparison a little more valid we can average the CES figures for the end of January and the end of February, to get an average figure for February- a midFebruary figure- which is more comparable to the survey figure. The result of such a collection is a figure of 304 670 unemployed in February 1975 on CES figures- about 61 000 more than the 243 600 shown by the survey. In itself, this is an extraordinary difference, but it is even more extraordinary when we consider that the CES figures should be lower than the survey figures because those CES figures cover only registered unemployed, whereas the survey figures cover all unemployed whether they are registered or not. 
Of course, not all workers bother to register when they become unemployed. They may decide to seek work themselves for a while before they bother to go to the CES. So the number of total unemployed should always exceed the number of registered unemployed, but that is not the case on the figures, as I have shown. 
Thus, when we consider that the method of measurement that covers only registered unemployed shows a figure of more than 60 000 above the figure produced by a method of measurement that purports to cover all unemployed, there is clearly something very wrong with one or other of the measurements. I suggest that all the evidence points to the fact that the CES figures are the ones which are most likely to be misleading, very substantially misleading at that. This is partly because there is no reason to suspect the Bureau figures as being misleading. Certainly they are obtained by sample and are therefore subject to sampling error, but this is quite small and in any case could just as likely inflate the unemployment figures as deflate them. In any case the fact is that the survey figures of unemployed persons seeking full time work have been less than the CES figures for almost every month for which one can make comparisons. Thus the February figures are no momentary aberration; they are part of a pattern in which the CES figures are above the survey figures and getting further ahead of them as unemployment is intensified. Moreover, the survey figure is compiled on a basis that is internationally accepted. It conforms closely to that recommended by the Eighth International Conference of Labor Statisticians. It is directly comparable with the method of measuring unemployment in the United States of America and Canada. The United States Bureau of Labor Studies uses our survey figures on unemployment to measure Australian unemployment when it produces its comparisons of international unemployment rates from time to time. There seems little doubt, therefore, that the survey figures are soundly based and there is no reason to suspect that anything odd has occurred in relation to their compilation. 
The same cannot be said, however, for the CES unemployment statistics. There are in fact good reasons to suspect that the number they show as being registered unemployed persons seeking full-time work is not an accurate figure of the number of registered persons seeking fulltime work who are actually unemployed. One such reason is that the CES figures of registered unemployed include persons referred to employees by the CES but whose employment was still unconfirmed by the Friday nearest the end of the month when the count of registered unemployed is conducted. This is a factor which is always present and so always will tend to make CES figures higher than they should be by including as unemployed some people who have been referred to a job and have in fact obtained that job, so they are not unemployed. I understand that the normal departmental practice is for the CES to contact the employer the day after the referral to see whether the person referred has obtained the job, but this does not always occur for one reason or another, and may be less likely to occur when the CES staff is overwhelmed with work, as has been the case for the last 6 months or more. 
Another factor which would artificially inflate the CES figure is that persons registered with the CES may have obtained employment through their own endeavours without notifying the CES. They eventually would be taken off the list through what is known as the lapsing procedure which involves checking through the registrations to see which registrants have not been in contact with the Employment Office for a month and wiping such persons off the list. But this means, of course, that a registrant could obtain a job through his own devices, but because he did not notify the employment office that he now had a job he could remain on the books as a registered unemployed person for weeks and be counted at the end of the month. 
One further factor that may artificially increase the CES figures is that they include all persons who receive unemployment benefit, and, to the extent that some people may be swindling the Government by drawing unemployment benefit at the same time as they have a job, the figure would be too high. It is difficult, indeed impossible, with present knowledge to say whether this is an important factor but it could become more important as unemployment increases because people are not able to be work tested when there are no jobs to offer them. Thus so long as someone is prepared to lie about his income and employment status it is difficult, although not impossible, to catch up with him at a time of substantial unemployment. As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  stated to the House a couple of days ago, one benefit of the Regional Employment Development scheme is that it has enabled the CES to work test a substantial number of registrants by offering them jobs, in this way testing the validity of their registration. Thus the value of the RED scheme is not simply what jobs it provides but also the effect it has in eliminating from the registered unemployed those people who are not genuinely seeking work but are content to live on unemployment benefits, and in eliminating also those who already are employed but drawing unemployment benefit as well. 
So for these reasons we can only conclude that the CES figures on unemployment substantially overstate the actual number of persons seeking full time employment. If we are to have a debate about unemployment in this House then we should be looking mainly at the survey figures, but because they are produced only quarterly that is difficult. If we must talk about the CES figures let us realise and face up to the fact that they substantially overstate the number of unemployed persons in this country. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is he aware that the statistics of unemployed published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the month of February, the latest statistics available, showed the total number of unemployed persons seeking full time work to be approximately 70 000 fewer than the total number of such persons recorded by the Commonwealth Employment Service for the same month? In view of the fact that the Bureau's figures are collected on a basis that conforms closely to that recommended by the Eighth International Conference of Labor Statisticians for measurement of unemployment and as they purport to cover all genuine unemployed whether registered or not, can he inform the House why his Department's figures of registered unemployed are so much higher than those obtained by this internationally accepted measurement of unemployment? 
In view of recent reports, I ask the Prime Minister whether it is a fact that the Australian Government submission to the Prices Justification Tribunal in the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd case now before the Tribunal will be in support of the BHP application for a price rise to improve the profitability of its steel-making activities? If so, can he inform the House why the Government is adopting this attitude and whether it will be supporting the full 14 per cent price increase applied for or some lesser percentage? 
-Can the Prime Minister tell the House what changes in tax rates would have applied since the financial year 1973-74 if tax indexation, in the form recommended by the Mathews Committee, had been operative for that period? Can he also say how those rates would compare with the tax rates now applicable to incomes? 
-We have just listened to another apoplectic sermon from the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  one which we are getting fairly used to hearing from him and, indeed, from other members of the Opposition who get up in various debates to preach doom and gloom about the future of the economy. I also want to address my remarks in this debate to the state of the economy and to suggest that members of the Opposition are closing their eyes to a number of factors which give reason for some optimism about recovery of the economy in the near future. In fact, a number of indicators have come to light in the last month or so which show that the economy is moving out of the state of slump which it has gone through in the last 9 months or so and is about to move into a period of some substantial recovery. 
The first of these indicators is retail sales which, in the September quarter of last year, increased by 3.8 per cent. That increase slumped to 0.2 per cent in the December quarter, but in the March quarter of this year it went up to 6.3 per cent. All these figures are in seasonally adjusted terms, so they are comparable. So we see a strong growth in the first quarter of this year compared with the last half of the last calendar year. In real terms- if we extract price increases- in the December quarter of last year retail sales fell by 2.5 per cent and in the March quarter of this year they increased by 2 per cent. In April of this year- these are the latest figures available- there was a 2.6 per cent increase in the money value of retail sales, which would be an increase in real terms of 1 per cent or more. So there is a strong upward growth in retail sales, which will have a very beneficial effect on the economy if it continues. I shall demonstrate later that it certainly will. 
Motor vehicle registrations in the March quarter were 133 000, compared with 1 17 000 in the December quarter of 1974 and only 1 12 000 in the March quarter of 1974. There has been a strong upward growth in motor vehicle registrations following the Government's actions, particularly in the cutting of sales tax at the end of January. Trade sources tell us that in April the increase in motor vehicle registrations was even stronger than in the March quarter, but that it has dropped back somewhat in the month of May following the restoration of some of the sales tax which was taken away in January. Nevertheless, the picture for motor vehicle sales and registrations this year is far more optimistic than it was in the latter part of last year. 
Stocks held by non-farm private enterprise increased rapidly as we went through the slump. I shall give the figures quarter by quarter: In the March quarter of 1974 they increased by 6.2 per cent; by 8.4 per cent in the June quarter; by 10 per cent in the September quarter; by 6.6 per cent in the December quarter; but then, in the March quarter of this year, we have had an increase of only 2.2 per cent. All these figures are in money terms. If we put them in real terms- if we took out the price factor- we would see that there has been an actual drop in stocks held by non-farm private enterprises in the March quarter of this year. Again, this is an important prelude to economic recovery and to an increase in production, that is, getting the stocks down that were built up last year following the slump in demand and the over-ordering of imports which characterised a lot of Australian business last year. 
The reason for optimism about the likely continuance of a strong upward growth in retail sales and consumer expenditure generally comes from a survey which was undertaken by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at the University of Melbourne in mid-March. It showed a dramatic upsurge in consumer optimism. I quote from a statement made by the Institute which was reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' on 7 May: 
The surge in consumer optimism reflected in this March survey is quite dramatic, the rate of change being unprecedented for our surveys. 
So honourable members can see that there has been a strong upward trend in consumer optimism about the future- an unprecedentedly dramatic increase, the Institute tells us. The reason for this optimism, as the report makes clear, is that people recognise that they are better off because of action taken by the Government. I quote again from the newpaper report: 
Although fewer respondents reported increased income than did so in December, a general feeling that economic recovery is imminent has contributed to a greater feeling of economic well being this quarter. 
An apparent slowdown in the rate of inflation, plus the recent reductions in bank interest rates and cuts in personal taxes appear also to have contributed to the brighter outlook this quarter. 
Further on in this report, in pursuance of this same point, the Institute states: 
The March quarter fall in the proportion of respondents who report making more money has done nothing to quell the favourable impression consumers have of their personal financial situation. 
Indeed, a substantial majority now say that at present they are better off financially than at this time last year. 
I suggest that these quotations show the wisdom of the Government's policy in cutting taxes last November. Consumers realise that they are better off; they are more optimistic about the future; they are spending more in retail sales and other consumer expenditures; and they are likely to continue their strong upward expenditures on consumer items. I suppose that also has a relevance to wage policy in that if people realise they are better off because of the Government's policy on taxes, they may be less pressing for wage increases than they would have been had those tax cuts not occurred. 
All this confirms a similar survey which was conducted in February by the Roy Morgan Research Group, which again showed the strong upward trend in consumer optimism. So it is clear that we can look forward to substantial growth in consumer expenditure over the rest of this year. Before leaving the reported statements by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, I should like to refer also to one other statement contained in that report, which is: 
There is evidence of a greater confidence in the Government's ability to control the twin problems of inflation and unemployment. 
I suggest that that quotation shows that the people of Australia are far wiser and more intelligent than the Opposition gives them credit for being. 
Building approvals are also increasing substantially. In the month of March they went up by 20 per cent over the rate for the previous month: They were 10 100 in March, compared with 8400 in February and 8000 in January. This figure is the highest since July 1974. In April there was a slight drop back in the level of approvals, but still they are way above the level of the 8 months prior to March. Of course, all this again follows from strong Government action to stimulate the housing sector- the $ 1 50m which was injected into the savings banks; alterations to housing lending policies for savings banks so they could lend more money; injection of money into terminating building societies; and so on. Building commencements are also starting to pick up. After falling for 5 successive quarters, they increased by 7 per cent, seasonally adjusted, in the March quarter. That is not a dramatic increase but, following the big increase in approvals in March, we can look forward presumably to continued expansion in building commencements. There is certainly strong reason for optimism about a continued revival in the building industry, at least on the housing side. 
There is an indicator even now that employment is likely to increase in the near future, that the rate of unemployment will drop. A series of newspaper advertisements for jobs which have been lodged by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd during the first and second week of May, indicate that that bank's estimates of employment for May show a significant increase of 8.4 per cent over April. Again, that figure is seasonally adjusted. This was the third successive monthly increase in that series of advertisements, following 1 1 consecutive monthly declines. The bank, in commenting on that, said that this represented 'a significant improvement in the demand for labour'. So we are experiencing at last an increase in the demand for labour. 
Share prices are moving up. They have gone up every day this week on the Melbourne and Sydney stock exchanges, which shows that the share market recognises that the economy is on the improve and has not been listening too much to the honourable member for Bradfield. I think I should also mention that the latest figures available show a substantial increase in company profits. In the September quarter of 1974 they were 10.4 per cent, that is, the gross operating surplus of companies was 10.4 per cent of the gross non-farm product. Various Opposition spokesmen told us how terrible this was. This figure increased to 12.2 per cent in the December quarter, but I have not heard any Opposition spokesmen mention that factor. That figure is getting much closer to the trend level for gross operating surplus of companies, which is about 14.5 per cent. Investment has not yet picked up and we cannot expect it to pick up until stocks go down further and return to normal levels. Then we can expect that business will feel encouraged enough to - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Keith Johnson) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to the latest survey of employment advertisements by the ANZ Bank, which showed that there was, according to the Bank, a significant improvement in the demand for labour? Will the Minister inform the House whether he regards this regular survey of advertised job vacancies as being a lead indicator of employment trends? If so, does he expect that this significant improvement in the demand for labour detected by the Bank will soon result in substantially reduced levels of unemployment? 
Can the Treasurer inform the House whether pre-Budget calls for reduced public spending have now been replaced by complaints about expenditure cuts? Can he say whether the source of the statements is the same in each case? 
-This debate is remarkable for the fact that it is taking place at all. This is basically a machinery measure, as the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  have pointed out. One would not have thought that the Opposition would have found anything in it about which to start hammering the Government. The debate is also remarkable for another factor, and that is the incredible presumption of the Opposition, firstly, for criticising the Government for doing something which it did itself a number of times and, secondly, for criticising the monetary policy of this Government when, according to last night's outlining of the Opposition's economic policy by the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  it would have a monetary policy which would be frightening for this country. 
Let me develop some of those points. I want to make it quite clear that this Bill is a machinery measure. There is nothing devious about it. This course had been followed by the Opposition a number of times. In 1968, 1970 and 1971 similar Bills to this were put through the Parliament to enable the same kind of device to be used by the then Government as this Government is now attempting to use. It is in no way a devious Bill. I would like to explain some figures for the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  He wondered where the figure of $1,151 billion came from. If he looks at page 46 of Budget Paper No. 4 he will see at the bottom of the column headed 'Estimate, 1975-76' a figure under the section 'Loans Acts 1974 and 1975 ' of $1,152 billion. If he takes from that the second figure at the top of the column, the credit item of $ 1 96,800, which is repayment of a previous loan, he will get the figure which appears on page 7 against Defence under the column 'Net transactions of Loan Fund' of $1,1 5 1.9m. So that is quite simply explained. I do not claim that it was my genius that worked it out. I found it out from the Treasury officials advising the Government. However, that is essentially by the way. 
The remarkable thing about this debate is that the Opposition is attempting to criticise the 
Government for doing something which it did a number of times. Honourable members opposite are suggesting that we are hiding something by not saying how the deficit will be financed. The fact is that they did not explain how they were going to finance their deficits either. No government is going to say at the outset of a financial year. 'This is exactly how we will finance our deficit'. What it does in the course of a year will be dictated by the economic requirements of the dme. As the year goes on all kinds of variations in the economy occur which require a differing monetary policy from time to time. So the way in which a government would finance a deficit would be dictated by the requirements of the economy. It would be absurd for the Government to commit itself at the outset to any particular form of financing the deficit. 
Having made that broad point may I also say that I think it is highly unlikely that the Government would try to cover the deficit by a massive borrowing program, because to do that it would probably need to raise interest rates substantially. So I suggest that it is not likely to be financed by a program which would lead to a massive increase in interest rates. The most remarkable part of this debate is that the Opposition is trying to lecture the Government on its monetary policy, suggesting that the deficit is a remarkably high deficit. In fact, according to last night's outlining of the Opposition's economic policy, it would propose a deficit which would be substantially in excess of the one for which the Government is budgeting this year. The domestic deficit for which this Government is budgeting is just over $2 billion. On the figures given to the Parliament this morning by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that figure would be almost doubled by the Opposition 's economic program. 
The honourable member may say that it is rubbish, but the fact is that the Opposition has not put all the figures before the Parliament. When one works out the cost of all the things the Opposition proposes to do, the handouts it would make and the minimal cuts in government expenditure which have been outlined, one finds the Opposition would have a domestic deficit approaching $4 billion and a total deficit of about $4.6 billion. That would be a remarkable deficit and would be by far the highest in the history of this country. I am almost overwhelmed at the presumption of the Opposition in lecturing the Government next day about the size of its deficit and about the irresponsible economic program and monetary policies which the Government is supposed to be adopting. What incredible effrontery! 
The fact is that if the Opposition were now the Government and if it carried out that program it would increase the money supply through its domestic deficit far more than the Government is doing in its economic program. The result of that would be that it would then have to cut back enormously on other forms of increase in the money supply. The result would be that there would be a very substantial increase in interest rates which would be quite crippling to private enterprise as well as to home buyers and others. What the Opposition would be trying to do for business on the one hand by making handouts in the form of tax concessions it would be offsetting by the massive increase in interest rates that would be required to finance a domestic deficit of that kind. 
The Opposition is in the incredible situation now where it has proposed a domestic deficit which is far higher than the one the Government has proposed and yet it now lectures us about responsible monetary policy- an incredible situation. It is compounded even more by the fact that the mover of this amendment is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the same man who the day before the Budget was announced by the Government was writing in an article in  The Australian  about the need for a smaller deficit. A week or so later the Opposition proposes a deficit which is almost double the size of the domestic deficit which the Government has proposed. 
I suggest that this debate is a remarkable debate. It is an insight into the thinking of the Opposition. It criticises the Government for bringing in a Loan Bill in the way in which it did many times. It criticises us for not explaining how we would finance the deficit. This is something it never did when it was the Government. It never explained that. Most importantly of all, it  attempts to berate the Government for an irresponsible monetary policy which it would exceed enormously if it were the Government. I suggest that the amendment is an utter absurdity and should be totally rejected by the Parliament. 
I rise to support the Budget which I believe to be a reasonable and rational response to the difficult economic circumstances which currently beset us. Not for 40 years has an Australian Government faced a more arduous task in determining the correct approach to the economic problems of the day. The unprecedented coincidence of substantial inflation and unemployment which now plagues this country, along with every other country in the western capitalist world, has created great dissension among economists, a profession whose members, one might say, have never been noted for unanimity of thought. The task facing each government in these countries is to decide which of the various conflicting solutions offered by economists will best suit the interests of the economy it administers. The approach adopted by the Australian Government in this Budget is, as the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  stated in his Budget Speech, to take the middle path, that is, one that neither drastically reduces the rate of growth in the money supply by slashing the Budget deficit nor one which proceeds through unrestrained expansion of government spending to dramatically increase the deficit and with it the money supply. In all the uncertainty and confusion which exists in economic circles, this overall strategy must surely be regarded as the prudent approach. 
It is important to realise that this differing approach of the Opposition to our budgetary requirements is not simply a matter of it opting for an alternative set of economic solutions but stems substantially from its revised political philosophy, for the fact is that the Opposition has shifted considerably further to the right of the political spectrum since it acquired its latesteader That such a shift has occurred there can be no doubt. In a series of statements made over the past few months, mostly outside this House, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has committed his followers to a philosophy which is markedly more conservative than that to which they professed hitherto. Its fundamental tenet supposedly is the freedom of the individual, but it is highly noticeable that in its application it would not only preserve but also would greatly extend the welfare and influence of the most privileged sections of our society. Let us examine some of the publicly stated comments of the Leader of the Opposition. Probably the principal theme of his philosophy is what he chose to describe as the freedom to spend one's own income. He said at the National Press Club in Canberra on  3 1  July: 
A fundamental freedom which must be expanded is control by individuals of the income they earn. Freedom to spend one's own income is just as important as freedom of speech, of religion, and of association. 
He also said in the same address: 
The next Liberal government will strongly reassert the right of families and of individuals to retain their own earnings so that they can meet their needs as they see lit. 
These are remarkable statements from a person who poses as an alternative Prime Minister. Taken to their logical conclusions they seem to be a prescription for the complete abolition of income tax since this would clearly maximise the so-called freedom to spend one's own income. Is that the ultimate objective of the Leader of the Opposition? Whether it is or not one can say only that previous Liberal-Country Party governments seemed singularly unconcerned to implement it. In the  23  years that they governed from  1949  till  1972  this supposed freedom was steadily eroded by continual increases in the tax burden. For example, personal income tax receipts as a percentage of gross domestic product in  1949-50  was  3.7  per cent while in  1972-73  it was  9.8  per cent. That was a very substantial increase in the tax burden. Another way of looking at it is to take the percentage of income paid in tax by a worker on average weekly earnings with a wife and  2  dependant children. In  1949-50  the proportion of his income paid in tax was  2.9  per cent while in  1972-73  it was  14V4  per cent. Again there was a very substantial increase in the tax burden. There can be no doubt that the freedom to spend one 's income was considerably reduced by successive Liberal-County Party governments, presumably because they considered there were community needs that should be fulfilled and would be best fulfilled by government. 
Now all this is to be reversed. Instead we are to have a society, if the Leader of the Opposition has his way, in which the emphasis will be on a smaller and smaller role for government, on survival of the fittest, on selfish acquisitive values, which the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who is trying to interject, I am sure would applaud, and an end to any semblance of an egalitarian society. It surely follows that if there is to be a reversion to a low tax society then governments will have far less capacity than they have now to transfer income and resources from the wealthy to the needy. Highly paid persons who pay a larger proportion of their income in income tax than low paid persons accordingly have their freedom to spend their incomes restricted much more than low income earners and so will have more to gain from the application of a philosophy that seeks to redress that supposed inhibition on freedom. Clearly the result of applying this warped philosophy must be a society in which we would have far greater extremes of wealth and poverty than currently exist, and they are far too extreme now for my liking or, indeed, for Professor Henderson's liking. 
To be fair to the Leader of the Opposition, he has not tried to hide the fact that he has no time for egalitarian values. In his National Press Club address a few weeks ago, he said: 
Liberals reject enforced equality, in the work place, in the economy and in education. 
By 'enforced equality' he presumably meant equality brought about by the actions of government since there is little chance of it occurring otherwise. Just to ensure that his point was made he also said that the first priority of government would be: 
To restore the rewards and remove the penalties on excellence, achievement and enterprise. 
In other words, what he was saying was that those individuals who obtain high incomes, those who are in a position to amass substantial personal wealth, should be taxed less and subsidised more. The corollary of that presumably is that those individuals who do not achieve, those who fall by the wayside, will be assisted less. I particularly emphasise 'individuals' here because the Leader of the Opposition has made it plain that assistance to businesses that fall on relatively hard times is very much a role for governments. In an interview published in the  Financial Review  of 14 February this year- before he knifed the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)-  the present Leader of the Opposition was asked: 
Who do you see as the group most in need of government help in Australia today? 
Most people would have answered this question by naming a clearly underprivileged group such as handicapped persons, people living in poverty, Aborigines or elderly persons, but not the Leader of the Opposition. His answer was: 'Private enterprise'. There can be no denying that the Fraser philosophy is more concerned with corporate welfare than with social welfare, more concerned with preserving the economic system than with preserving the people it victimises, more concerned with the promotion of selfish acquisitive values than with the humanitarian values such as concern for one's fellow-man. I ask the House: Is this really the kind of society we want Australia to become? Certainly it is a very different society from that which is evolving in most of the other countries in the developed capitalist world. In most of them the freedom to spend one's own income is rather more curtailed than it is in this country. 
Figures published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development earlier this year show that payments by employees in the form of income tax and social security contributions as a percentage of gross national product was lower in Australia than in all but seven of the 22 OECD countries. The proportion of gross national product derived from employee social security contributions and income tax was 10 per cent in Australia in 1972. In countries like Denmark and Sweden it was 23 per cent and 2 1 per cent respectively. Most of the European countries were well above 10 per cent. There were only 7 countries below us. Among those countries below us were Italy, Greece, Portugal and Spain- the real economic giants of the western world. The relatively low incidence of direct taxation in Australia was reflected in government expenditure on such items as education and welfare, or was until this Government came to office. Recently published OECD figures showed that the percentage of GNP expended by Government on education was quite low in Australia compared with other countries. These figures are again for the 1970-71 period. In Canada the proportion was 8.4 per cent. In Sweden it was 7.1 per cent. It was 6 per cent in the United States of America and 5.9 per cent in the United Kingdom. The proportion was 4.6 per cent in Germany. In Australia the figure was a dismal 4.3 per cent. 
The same picture emerges in relation to welfare. In a scathing attack on Australia 's appalling disregard for social welfare, the London  Financial Times  of 10 March 1971 showed that the proportion of Australia's gross domestic product expended on welfare was appallingly low in comparison with other developed countries. That expenditure in the European Economic Community was 15.2 per cent. In Scandinavia it was 10.9 per cent. The figure in Canada was 9.9 per cent. It was 8.6 per cent in the United Kingdom, 6.6 per cent in New Zealand and 5.9 per cent in the United States of America. In Australia it was a miserable 5.5 per cent. The Labor Government has been trying to correct this situation. Clearly, if we are now to embark on a policy, as the Opposition would have us do, of maximising the freedom of individuals to spend their own income, we would be wildly out of step with the rest of the developed world. 

 Mr Speaker, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, the Opposition's Budget strategy follows logically from its fervent adoption of ultra conservative values. Thus, in conformity with his previously espoused beliefs, the Leader of the Opposition last Tuesday called for greatly increased assistance to private enterprise and lower taxes on personal incomes. He also vehemently attacked the Government's radically redistributive income tax proposals as 'another hidden attack on people who wish to remain independent'. Thus, a reform which relieves the income tax burden on taxpayers with dependants is dismissed by the Leader of the Opposition. He does this because some less needy taxpayers without dependants will have to pay more. Presumably he regards this as enforced equality and an interference with the freedom of single taxpayers to spend their own income. 
However, having attacked the Government's Budget from this ideological standpoint, the Leader of the Opposition failed dismally to supply a viable alternative Budget strategy. Indeed, when it came to the point of explaining how he would make large revenue concessions whilst not increasing the deficit the. Leader of the Opposition completely lacked the courage of his convictions. Having asserted that the Budget should have contained an array of additional tax concessions and subsidies amounting to at least $1 billion, he was then able to dig up offsetting reductions in expenditure that amounted to only half of that sum on his own calculations, but substantially less than that in fact. Certainly he pointed to other areas where savings could be achieved, but he made no attempt to cost them. If he had costed them he would still have been a long way short of the $1 billion, with the result that the deficit which would flow from his Budget strategy would be considerably in excess of that involved in the Budget brought down by the Government. 
Now,  Sir, I  emphasise that that picture emerges if one accepts the costing provided by the Leader of the Opposition. In fact, however, his costing of expenditure saving is substantially overstated. For instance, his supposed saving of $75m on Budget outlays -by reducing the Advance to the Treasurer is no saving at all since that advance does not form part of Budget outlays. Furthermore, the saving of $150m which the Leader of the Opposition says he would make through zero Public Service growth and abolition of the Department of the Media, the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Legal Aid Office and the Australia Police is, on the Treasury's estimates, about double the saving that would in fact result Another major expenditure saving in the Opposition's plan would be to cease work on the Moomba-Sydney natural gas pipeline and to sell the pipeline to private enterprise. The Opposition estimates that the sale of the pipeline would bring in $130m. But that estimate assumes that the Government would be paid in full this year. For that to be the case it is quite likely that money would have to be borrowed overseas, in which case this would add to the money supply in exactly the same way as an increase in the deficit. Thus it would be a completely pseudo saving, reducing the deficit, but doing it in a way which has the same economic effect as increasing the deficit by a like amount. It also raises a question about the ethics of financing tax concessions by selling off capital assets. What would it be next year? Would we be selling off Qantas Airways Ltd or TransAustralia Airlines? 
In the area of other expenditure economies for which the Leader of the Opposition gave no costing, the Treasury estimated the items pointed to by the Leader of the Opposition- that is, the cessation of uranium exploration, suspending growth centre expenditure and making special economies in the urban rehabilitation and area improvement programs- would save only $1 15m, and that assumes the complete cessation of expenditure on those programs. Yet the Leader of the Opposition says that he could save about $500m by such economies. Quite clearly, the Opposition has a very substantial credibility gap in this matter of costing. 
Ignoring the dubious validity of the saving from selling the pipeline, the announced Oppo.sition program would still increase the Budget deficit by about $500m. But this credibility gap becomes a yawning chasm when one realises that in costing its alternative program the Opposition has made no allowance whatever for abandoning the projected increases in indirect taxes on beer, cigarettes and spirits, the crude oil levy or the coal export levy, all of which have been trenchantly criticised by the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues. The same is true of the . increased postal and telephone charges which, if not implemented, would add a further $350m to Budget outlays. The total revenue raised by all of these measures is in excess of $ 1 billion. 
Opposition speaker after Opposition speaker in this debate has criticised these taxes and charges. If that means that they are opposed to them, which one presumes it does, that amount cannot be included as revenue in the alternative Budget proposals put forward by the Opposition. But when the Opposition does its costing, no allowance is made for the abolition of these revenue measures. The fact is that the Opposition is trying to have $ 1,000m each way, which is nothing short of an attempted gigantic confidence trick on the people of Australia. 
In summary, therefore, the Opposition's alternative Budget strategy would result in a Budget deficit on the basis of the revenue and expenditure variations that the Opposition has specifically proposed of at least $500m. If one adds on the revenue lost by not proceeding with the increased indirect taxes and charges, the deficit is $ 1,500m more than the Government has proposed. So much for the claim by the Opposition to fiscal responsibility. 
Of course, it could be that what the Leader of the Opposition would really intend to do would be to limit the deficit by further drastic cuts in government expenditure. It could be that whilst he was ingratiating himself with everybody by promises of tax cuts and concessions last Tuesday night, he was reluctant to spoil things a little by spelling out where he would make his major expenditure cuts. One thing is certain. He has used up whatever soft options he had for expenditure cuts. The chop back of a further $ 1,500m or even $500m in government expenditure could be done only by severely restricting if not emasculating the Government's program of social reform. Of course, that would not provide the Leader of the Opposition with any ideological problems. But it is important that the people of Australia understand the implications of Fraserism. 

 His program, in order to have any semblance of economic responsibility, would have to tear the heart out of the Government's education, welfare, health and urban development and recreation programs that are designed to provide equality of opportunity, income security, good health and a more pleasant environment for all. The Australian people should understand also that the Frazer philosophy is that these things can best be provided by each individual for himself or herself rather than by relying on the Government to provide them. This philosophy is an elitist concept. It is utterly fallacious for the vast majority of wage and salary earners and their dependants in this country. 
Certainly wealthy people such as the Leader of the Opposition have no need of Government expenditure in these areas. They can afford to pay for the best schools, the best health care and the best urban environment and have no need of income security programs. But for many people these services are either provided by the government or not all all. It is in their interests that they are provided at the highest standard possible. The destruction of programs which have this aim would substantially impair the living standards of the overwhelming majority of wage earners, welfare recipients and their families in Australia. It would have no effect on the wealthiest people in our society. 

 Mr Speaker, there can be no doubt that the program of the Opposition is the complete antithesis of that which would best serve the interests of the ordinary men and women in Australia . The fact that the Opposition bases its elitist program on the supposed extention of the freedom of the individual illustrates dramatically what a jaundiced concept it has of human rights. I strongly commend the Budget to the House. 
-In this debate, which concerns the Government's supposed demonstrated inability to deal with the problems of industrial relations, the Opposition has been resorting to statistics on industrial disputes and on unemployment. I wish to say a bit about those statistics. I refer firstly to industrial disputes. Reference has been made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  and also by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  to the escalation of the number of industrial disputes. If they look at the figures for the 5 months to May of this year, which are the latest figures available, they would find that the number of working days lost is about one-third of the number of working days lost in the previous year. Admittedly the figure was rather higher in 1974. It is also true that the loss of working days in the first 5 months of 1975 is running at a lower rate than it was in 1 97 1 when the Opposition was in government. In that respect I think it is difficult to find from the figures on industrial disputes and on the number of working days lost any particular demonstrated inability of the Government to deal with the problems of industrial relations or at least an inability greater , than the Opposition displayed when it was in government. 
Figures of up to 300 000 persons have been thrown around in regard to unemployment.! say once again, as I have said in previous debates in this House, particularly this year, that we should really be looking at the 2 sets of figures that are available for unemployment, paying much greater attention to the figure from the Bureau of Statistics than we do to the figures from the Department of Labor and Immigration which are collected through the Commonwealth Employment Service. The fact is that the number of unemployed which we get from the collation of figures from the Commonwealth Employment Service is substantially in excess of what the Commonwealth Statistician finds when his officers knock on doors and do their quarterly sampling. In May of this year, which is the last period for which we have figures from the Bureau of Statistics, the number of unemployed who were looking for full time work was 192 000 persons. For that same month the CES showed a figure of 248 064 persons. In other words there is a discrepancy of well over 50 000. In fact one would assume that the figures from the Bureau of Statistics would be higher because they would pick up not only those people who are registered with the CES but also those people who are unemployed but have not bothered to register. 
The sampling taken by the Bureau of Statistics is to internationally accepted standards and conforms with the International Labour Organisation 's Statisticians' convention for the measurement of unemployment. Yet the Bureau of Statistics figure, this internationally accepted figure, is substantially less- some 50 000 or 60 000 less and it has been in February and May again of this year- than the figures collected by the CES. I do not have time to go into great detail as to why that is so, but there are reasons one can dig up. I am not suggesting that the CES figures are a rort in any way. They measure, undoubtedly, the people who say they are unemployed at the time. Whether they really are is a different question. I do not have time to develop that further but the fact is that the actual number of unemployed on an internationally accepted basis is substantially less than the figure we are getting from the CES at the moment, and this has been so, well back into the time when the Opposition was in government. 
The industrial disputes during this year and last year, and indeed in most years, have been mainly related to wages. Of course the Government's major initiative in this area has been wage indexation. It has gone into the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and supported wage indexation. It is natural and understandable that at a time of rapid inflation there would be an exacerbation of industrial disputes related to wages because wage earners, like everyone else, are hurt by inflation. The Government's answer has been to try to say to wage earners: 'Look, we can assist you by pursuing a course through the Arbitration Commission to try to get that body to accept a system of adjustment of wages quarterly in line with price increases so that your real wage levels will be maintained'. Indeed, that accords with trade union policy. For 22 years the trade union movement tried to get the system of quarterly adjustments restored. It operated for 30 years until 1953 when it was abolished. The trade union movement has wanted the system restored ever since. Admittedly the system then operated slightly differently from the present system, but it was in essence wage indexation. It was an adjustment for increases in the cost of living. This system has now been introduced and we hope it will be continued by the Arbitration Commission. It is now being supported by the Opposition, judging by the speech of the Leader of" the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the Budget debate. 
It is true, of course, that there are problems with wage indexation at the moment. Some unions are pressing for wage increases outside indexation guidelines. I think it is interesting to look at the reasons for that. There are some misconceptions about the real meaning of wage indexation. I saw a report in one trade union journal recently saying that a union supported wage indexation but also wanted cost of living adjustments. The union concerned was a fairly small union; I do not think it is a typical misconception. I think there is a lack of understanding in some areas of the trade union movement about what indexation really means. 
There is also a very genuine and substantial concern about over-award payments by some trade unions- indeed all those unions which have members who receive substantial overaward payments. As the system stands at the moment the adjustment which would take place with indexation would apply only to the award rate. This must mean that every time there is no increase in the over-award segment of wages the whole wage will not be keeping pace with inflation. Of course the unions will make claims for wage increases outside the indexation increases so that over-award payments will keep pace with inflation too. The Government is trying to overcome this aspect to reduce the amount of industrial disputation in this area by saying to the Arbitration Commission that it should devise a method of applying wage indexation to overaward payments as well as to award payments. Of course there are some technical difficulties in that and we will see in the next week or so whether the Arbitration Commission is of a mind to do that and, if so, whether it can do so feasibly. 
There is also undoubtedly some action by trade unions to get bigger pay increases to increase their share of the cake. I think it is this part of trade union activity which is of the greatest concern to this Government. There has been a very substantial shift from capital to labour in the share of the national cake and any greater movement at this stage would have a very adverse effect on employment. The Government has taken some action to make sure that the indexation guidelines are not breached. It has intervened in disputes and the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  who is at the table, has indicated the limitations on the Government's ability to do too much in this area. The Government also said- and I do not think enough publicity is being given to this fact- to the Arbitration Commission that it would say before the Prices Justification Tribunal that the Tribunal should not pass on or use as the basis for a price increase a wage increase which is in excess of the guidelines. This seems to me to be an extraordinarily sensible way in which to use the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
If wage earners and employers, when they negotiate about a wage increase, know that an increase beyond the guidelines cannot be passed on in the form of higher prices but has to come out of profits then the employer will know that his profits will be dented to the extent that he exceeds the guideline, and that will be an inhibition on him, and the unionists will know that if they go too far they will certainly damage their employment prospects. So I think the use of the 
Prices Justification Tribunal in this way is something which the Government should pursue more. I would like to see the Government give the Tribunal a lot more publicity and possibly amend the Act to include this element in it. 
Of course, Opposition members could not do this if they were in Government because they object to the use of the PJT and would abolish it altogether. Instead, as the Minister has mentioned, the Opposition has a system of restoring the penal clauses. We would have the third arm, as the Opposition calls it, the industrial relations bureau which would be established as an extension of the arbitration inspectorate and which would finish up taking cases to the Industrial Court. The eventual consequences, as it was so delightfully put in the POliCy and used by the Leader of the Opposition, would be eventually fines and imprisonment. So we would be back to the delightful days of 1969, the days of confrontation that we had then. Finally, I should like to draw attention to the marvellous dichotomy of attitude of the Opposition as between employer investment strikes and employee strikes. If the - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Treasury, I wish to refer to the general acceptance within the Parliament and the nation that the Budget strategy of the Government is one that more or less accords with the view of the Treasury. It is rather interesting to note that we now have an Opposition which is fundamentally opposed to the Treasury line or the Treasury strategy as proposed in this Budget. This is particularly interesting given the fact that, when the Opposition Parties were in government, they were noted for being conformists to the Treasury line. They are now utterly non-conformists in their approach as regards the Treasury view. 
This aspect is interesting also because, at the same time as we have this line adopted by the Opposition, the Opposition is trying to put forward a strategy which would involve substantial additions to the level of unemployment now prevailing. The Opposition is trying to make a great deal of political capital out of the fact that substantial unemployment exists at present and that unemployment is likely to increase, in original and not seasonally adjusted figures, as has been outlined by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland). 
The strategy of the Opposition would lead to a substantial increase in unemployment. This would be the result of the policy which has been outlined by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the expenditure cuts which he says the Opposition would institute and also the expenditure cuts which would be involved in its policy but which have not been referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. 
If one looks through the second reading speech of the Leader of the Opposition in the Budget debate, one sees proposed a number of cuts in expenditure which would undoubtedly involve a reduction in employment opportunities. For instance, we are to have zero Public Service growth, according to the Leader of the Opposition. The policy of the Government involves, in broad terms, a 2.8 per cent increase in the size of the Public Service; or, if one takes account of the fact that there would be more public servants on leave this year, the net increase would be 1.4 per cent. 
What is involved in zero Public Service growth has not been spelt out by the Leader of the Opposition. But if one looks at an increase of 2.8 per cent in broad terms of which the Government is thinking, that means an extra 7700 employment opportunities. If one looks at the increase in net terms of 1.5 per cent, the result is 4000 job opportunities. These job opportunities, either 7700 or 4000, would not be available if the Opposition's policy were brought into effect. Presumably, we would have increased unemployment to this extent. 
We are also to have a winding back on the capital works program. I draw the attention of the Committee to the fact it is the non-dwelling construction area which is in diabolical trouble at the present moment. A winding back of the capital works program would cause immense problems additional to those which exist at present in the non-dwelling construction area. The Leader of the Opposition referred particularly in the second reading debate to office building as being one area in which activities would be cut back. It is this area which is extremely slack at the moment. Fewer employment opportunities would be available in that area of economic activity. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that he would suspend growth centre expenditure also. Expenditure on growth centres in the Budget involves some $84m. Most of this expenditure would be employment creating. Again, it would be involved very much in the construction area. These opportunities would not be available under the Opposition's program. These employment opportunities would be lost immediately as it is employment which is created immediately by Government expenditure, and that expenditure would not be available under the alternative Budget strategy proposed by the Opposition. 
The Opposition suggested also that new works undertaken by the National Capital Development Commission should be cut back. I apply the same argument to this proposal as I did in relation to growth centre expenditure. The result would be a further loss of job opportunities in the construction area. Also, the Opposition would provide less money for housing purposes. The Government has proposed an additional $20m for the Australian Housing Corporation. This sum would not be available under the alternative Budget strategy of the Opposition. Therefore, that $20m would not be available to be spent on housing. Again the result would be fewer job opportunities. 
The Opposition has said also that there would be special economies in urban rehabilitation and area improvement activities. For the area improvement program, the present Budget pro.vides $17.7m while $16.8m is allocated for urban rehabilitation. Most of the expenditure in these areas is again employment creating. These further opportunities would not be available under the Opposition's alternative Budget strategy. The areas to which I have referred are, in effect, only the tip of the iceberg. These are examples of the expenditure cuts outlined by the Leader of the Opposition as part of the Opposition's alternative Budget strategy. However, much more than these reductions would in fact be involved. 
According to Treasury estimates- these were put forward previously in the second reading debate- an additional $500m in expenditure cuts over and above those which have been outlined by the Leader of the Opposition would need to be instituted if the deficit proposed by the Government were not to be increased beyond the figure set by the Government. To contain that $500m in additional cuts, further loss of employment opportunities would be involved. But, again, that is less than the full story. Opposition  speaker  after Opposition  speaker  in the second reading debate criticised the increases in indirect taxes proposed by the Government on beer, cigarettes, spirits and so on. Opposition speakers also criticised the coal export levy. They criticised also, and undoubtedly will do so later in this Committee debate, the increases in postal charges. Altogether, these revenue items will raise approximately $ 1,000m. If Opposition members criticise these increases, presumably they are against them. This means that, in their alternative Budget strategy, they could not expect to receive that amount of revenue and would need to cut that amount of expenditure by a further $ 1,000m. Again, such a cutback obviously would involve a very substantial loss of employment opportunities. 
Further, Opposition members have proposed other increases in - expenditure. Prior to the Budget debate, Opposition members spoke about the need for increased expenditure on defence and on a whole range of other areas which, if the projected Budget deficit were not to be exceeded, would involve further cuts in Government expenditure. The incredible situation which we face at the moment is one in which the Opposition- the Liberal Party and the National Country Party- is criticising the Government for spending too much and for proposing a deficit of a certain size. Yet the Opposition Parties in their policy would create a Budget deficit which in effect would be substantially in excess of that which the Government proposes, unless the Opposition Parties slash government expenditure. Yet at the State level Premiers and Ministers of the same political persuasion as the Opposition Parties are attacking the Australian Government for not spending enough. So the Opposition's policy is really an absolute shambles. If it were to be instituted as it has been expounded in this Parliament, it would certainly involve a drastic, enormous reduction in job opportunities immediately. 
Of course, the Opposition has proposed tax cuts. The Opposition claims that these tax cuts would stimulate private expenditure and private investment and, therefore, would provide job opportunities. In doing so, the Opposition seems entirely to neglect the fact that there are lags in respect of these areas. Taxes cannot be cut in the expectation that immediately there will be a great leap in employment opportunities in the country. The Opposition seems at the moment to be fairly strongly supporting the monetary approach of Professor Friedman and others. Professor Friedman has made the point in the past that these lags are very substantial. For instance, in aspects such as movements in the money supply, an alteration in the money supply or in the rate of increase in the money supply has a lag of up to 2 years in terms of prices and from 9 months to 12 months in terms of employment opportunities. 
So it is quite obvious that the Opposition strategy is one which would involve a very substantial reduction in job opportunities now through the cutting of Government expenditure. It may involve in the long term an expansion of private job opportunities. But this would be in the very long term. We are talking about well into the next calendar year. Certainly, if the Opposition wishes to make a point about the levels of unemployment in this financial year, it certainly would have to alter the Budget strategy that it is proposing because that Budget strategy must necessarily involve a very substantial increase in the number of unemployed in this financial year. 
In the short time remaining to me, I wish to make one point about lead indicators. I think it is a shame that in this country we do not have much more available to us in the way of lead indicators. In the United States of America now a lead indicator index is available which is extremely advantageous to the Government and to those involved in dealing with the economy. This assists them to know what is happening in their country in terms of the likely forward movement in the economy. These lead indicators are not available to us in Australia at present. I think that it is a shame that we do not have such an index. The Reserve Bank of Australia in 1973 did produce an occasional paper called  The Indicator Approach to the Identification of Business Cycles.  It tended to pour cold water on the idea of such an index. But if such an index - 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration inform the House why the unemployment figures compiled by the Department of Labor and Immigration from its Commonwealth Employment Service records are substantially in excess of those produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics through its quarterly labour force survey? In view of the fact that the Bureau's unemployment figures are compiled on an internationally accepted basis, what reliance can be placed on the CES figures as an accurate measure of unemployment in this country? 
Has the Treasurer received any messages from the State Premiers about proposals for a new system of double taxation which would disadvantage the smaller States? Will he affirm to the House the Government's commitment to equality of living standards and opportunities for all Australians irrespective of the States in which they make their homes? 
I rise to take part in this debate to draw attention to the fact that the economic malaise which affects this country at the moment is only part of an economic malaise which affects the whole of the western world. This is something which the Opposition simply does not make any allowance for, or if it makes any allowance for it it is a very minor allowance. But it is an important factor. In raising this point one is not trying to say that nothing that the Government does or that employers or trade unions in Australia do matters because of what has happened in the rest of the world. But one makes the point that it is important to understand that what is happening here is not happening in isolation; it is simply part and parcel of what is happening across the whole of the western world. 
There is now available extensive literature and a great array of statistics to prove the points I am making. I found that perhaps the best of what is available is that produced by the National Institute of Economic and Social Research which is a respected and prestigious British institution. It produces a quarterly bulletin called the  National Institute of Economic Review.  The Institute summarised the state of the world economy in the August edition this year in a way which I think is relevant to this debate. The points which arise from the summary of the world economy can be summarised, as these: Firstly, recession has affected all countries in the western developed world, to varying degrees, but all of them have been substantially affected. Recession reached a trough in the middle of this year and recovery can be expected next year in practically every one of those countries. Inflation, which has been quite high in-all of those countries, is now starting to decline. A number of countries have resorted to substantial increases in public expenditure as a means of reflating their economies, and that has a particular relevance to Australia. Finally, some countries which resorted to tax cuts to stimulate their economies have found that taxpayers have put a lot of that tax cut in the bank rather than spend it, so it has not had the stimulatory effect that the economic planners and the governments hoped it would have. I shall go on to develop some of those points. I have produced a table which is headed 'Actual and Estimated Movements in Real Gross Domestic Product of OECD Countries, 1974-1976'. I ask leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="096131197510025_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This table, if I may summarise it, shows for 19 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries the increase in real gross domestic product over the previous year for the years 1974 to 1976 inclusive. The table shows that in 1974 for the total OECD there was an increase in real gross domestic product of only 2.8 per cent, and Australia was below that figure at only 0.8 per cent. But some countries in 1974 had negative growth. For instance, Japan had a negative growth of minus 1.8 per cent in the total amount of goods and services produced that year. The United States had a negative growth rate of minus 2. 1 per cent and a few other countries also had negative growth rates. The Institute estimates that in this current calendar year ten of the 19 countries which it shows in its publication will have negative growth, including Australia. But for the total OECD the Institute anticipates that the decline in real gross domestic product will be 2.3 per cent. The figure for Australia it is estimated will be 1.5 per cent. So our rate of economic decline in 1975 is estimated to be less than the average for OECD countries. I admit that that is small comfort, but it is a relevant fact. As I said, ten of the 19 countries shown will have negative rates of growth, some of them quite startlingly large. For instance, West Germany is  estimated by the Institute to face a negative growth of 2.5 per cent to 3 per cent. The United States is estimated to have a negative growth of minus 4 per cent. The Institute anticipates that in 1976 practically every country in the OECD will experience economic recovery and for none of them is a negative growth rate anticipated. For Australia, the Institute anticipates an increase in real gross domestic product of 5 per cent and that is virtually the OECD average which it is anticipated will be 4.9 per cent. I shall illustrate some of those figures by referring to some comments by the Institute in looking at individual countries. In relation to the United States in 1 975 it states: 
Industrial production in the United States in the second quarter was on average 2 per cent down on the first quarter and 10 per cent lower than in the fourth quarter of last year. 
It stated further 
Business fixed investment fell by 6 per cent in constant price terms in the first quarter and the second quarter brought the fifth successive decline. 
So one can see that the United States has suffered a very substantial and continuous fall in business investment, as has been the case in this country. It has not happened just in this country and it is not just due to a Labor government. In relation to fiscal policy in the United States, the Institute said: 
Fiscal policy has started to exercise a strong expansionary influence. In the first quarter Federal expenditure increased by 6  'A  per cent. 
It said that the Budget deficit more than doubled in .the first quarter of this year and that it will almost certainly be even higher in the second quarter. It said: 
This brings the deficit for the first 1 1 months of the fiscal year ending on 1 July to $45. 1 billion, compared with a $ 10.6 billion deficit in 1973-74. 
In other words, the United States is increasing its deficit by 350 per cent. The Institute went on to say: 
In Canada the economy appears to be in the later stages of a cyclical downturn in some ways similar to that in the United States, although with the peak early in 1 974 recession began rather later in Canada and has been much less severe. 
In relation to Japan it said: 
In the fiscal year ending in March 1 975 stringent Government anti-inflation policy, combined with the stagnation of economic activity and the resulting slowdown in world trade, gave Japan the first fall in output since the last war. Real GNP fell by 0.6 per cent in the year and by 0.7 per cent in the January-March quarter. 
In relation to France the Institute said: 
Industrial production, seasonally adjusted, was some 3V4 per cent lower in the first quarter than in the previous 3 months and it fell further in the second quarter, probably to about 12 per cent below the corresponding 1974 level . . . 
It appears that further expansionary measures, mainly in the field of public investment, will be taken after the holidays. 
I understand that that expansion has now taken place. In relation to West Germany it said: 
As the slight rise in consumers' expenditure was in January-March outweighed by falls in exports and capital investment, real GDP was 3 per cent below the level of the previous quarter, and the situation in the building industry is described as desperate. 
Also in relation to West Germany and referring to tax cuts it said: 
But consumers have so far responded disappointingly, particularly in West Germany, to the rise in real disposable incomes which fiscal concessions have been giving them. OECD expects that the average savings ratio for the 7 major countries . . . will be even higher this year. 
In other words, consumers are saving tax cuts rather than spending them. This has relevance to the Opposition's proposals for expanding the economy at this time. The Institute continued: 
Although the deep recession in Italy had earlier this year shown some erratic signs of moderating, real output was probably about  Vz-2  per cent lower in the first half than in the previous 6 months and perhaps 5 per cent lower than in the first half of 1974. Industrial production in the first 6 months was about 13 per cent lower than in the same period. ... 
In Belgium the bottom of the recession may have been reached and a start to the recovery now seems possible before the end of the year. . . . 
Although on the surface the Netherlands economy seems to be performing reasonably well against a background of world recession, the immediate prospects have worsened. 
In relation to Denmark it said: 
But building starts, which were halved last year, remain depressed and business investment is likely to be 10. per cent lower. Industrial production has declined further and the volume' of orders in hand at the end of April was 1 7 per cent lower than in 1974. 
The downward trend continues in Switzerland. Industrial production has been declining steadily and by the first quarter it was 18 per cent down compared with' the same period last year. ..'.*. 
The world recession seems to have caught up with Australia also. While in 1974 real GNP increased by 4.4 per cent, the latest national forecasts indicate a growth of only about 1 per cent this year. ... 
Industrial output in Spain has been falling since the middle of last year. 
I suppose I should be getting used to it but one is continually amazed at the sheer gall of the Opposition in debates such as this. Members of the Opposition will say anything at all to make political points. Probably the best example we have seen for some time is the - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I heard that remark. The honourable member for Curtin called the honourable member for Gellibrand a hypocrite. I ask him to withdraw the remark. 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns the recently announced resignation of the Prime Minister's adviser on women's affairs, Miss Elizabeth Reid. Will the Prime Minister inform the House whether Miss Reid's resignation means that there has been any loss of interest by the Australian Government in promoting the equality and advancement of women in Australia? In particular can he say whether it is the Government's intention to establish within the Prime Minister's Department, or any other department, a section to deal with policy for the advancement of women and, if this is intended, whether the position of personal adviser on women's affairs will be continued? If a women's policy section within the Public Service is to replace the personal adviser will he inform the House what advantages are expected to accrue from that arrangement? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is he aware of statements to the effect that the cost of medical benefits under Medibank is running well above the level estimated by the Government? Can the Minister inform the House whether this is the case? Will he tell the House what medical benefit costs the Government has met so far? 
-A listener to the mealy mouthed contribution from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  would have been pushed very hard - 
... to find any reference to the income tax legislation which is before the House. He would have learnt very little of what is contained in these Bills. 
I was saying that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition seemed more intent on pursuing his abusive vendetta than talking about the legislation which is before this House. 
-I did not say that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was mealy mouthed; I said that his contribution was mealy mouthed. The fact is that these Bills contain a quite radical reform of the income tax system, one which is many years overdue and one which the Labor movement pushed the previous Government for many years to introduce but which it never had the initiative or concern to introduce at any stage. The principal feature of the new income tax system is that it replaces the old deduction system with a rebate system. I think that this needs explaining. Under the deduction system a taxpayer was allowed, say, $360, as an allowance for a spouse.  (Quorum formed)  As I was saying before the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  pursued his puerile tactical manoeuvre, these Bills introduce a rebate system in place of the previous deduction system. I was trying to explain the difference. Under the deduction system if a taxpayer was allowed $360 for a spouse that deduction came off the top of the income level. If that person earned $ 10,000 a year he could take $360 off that sum as a deduction for his spouse. Another taxpayer earning $4,000 a year could deduct the same amount from the top of his income. Because of the difference in the marginal rates of taxation which apply under a progressive income tax system, it meant that a given deduction was worth more the higher one's income. The whole system of deductions for spouses and other dependants and for various expenses which were allowed under the Income Tax Act worked in a way which was most advantageous to the highest paid. 
This new system of a rebate seeks to alter that situation so that there is an equitable scheme whereby the amount allowable is the same for all persons. Thus in the case of a spouse under the new legislation the amount allowable is $400 but that is a rebate whether one earns $30,000 a year or $3,000 a year. If a taxpayer has a spouse for whom he or she can claim a deducation under the taxation legislation that taxpayer can claim $400 off the tax that otherwise would have to be paid. Thus the saving in tax is the same for all taxpayers regardless of the income level. That applies to the deduction for dependants and all other deductions and it represents a radical departure from the previous system. 
I want to go into some detail about the new legislation because the previous speaker paid no attention to it. Firstly, there is to be a new rate scale. In that scale there are only 6 steps instead of the previous myriad of steps by which one progressed up the progressive income tax scale to a maximum marginal rate of 66.6 per cent. Now there are to be 6 steps, from 25 per cent at the lowest level to 65 per cent at the top. This is a far simpler system. More importantly, and I will come to this again later, between the income levels of $5,000 and $10,000, which covers the areas above and below the average weekly earnings, there is a 35 per cent rate. Any increase in wages between those incomes will not attract higher marginal rates of tax. 
We also have the introduction of a sole parent's rebate. This did not exist before. There was no deduction for a sole parent. Now there is to be a $200 per annum rebate for a sole parent and this will assist 100 000 parents in this country. The amounts of rebates for dependants are very much higher in their effective assistance to the taxpayer than was the case under the previous system. For instance, for a spouse the deduction was $364. The maximum benefit which could be obtained from that for any taxpayer would have been two-thirds of that amountabout $240 odd- whereas under the new system the rebate will be $400 for all taxpayers. It is a much higher allowance. For a child under 16 years the previous deduction was $260 and the maximum benefit was two-thirds of that amount, and that was for people on very high incomes. Under the new system the rebate will be $200 for all. For children other than the first child the previous deduction was $208. Now there is to be a rebate of $ 1 50 for all. Again that will mean a substantial increase for most taxpayers. Therefore this change from a deduction system to a rebate system is very important. 
There is one other aspect which is particularly important to lower income earners and that is the allowance of a block rebate. For allowable expenses other than for dependants, taxpayers are to be allowed a block rebate of $540 under the new system. This covers all allowable expenses up to $1,350. That has been worked out on the basis of 40 per cent rebate on $1,350 equals $540. Whether a taxpayer in fact spends on superannuation, life assurance, education, health and so on to the extent of $ 1 ,350 or not each taxpayer is to get a rebate of $540. So a taxpayer does not have to account for expenditure up to $1,350 as he would under the present system. This is particularly important because it will provide substantial income tax relief for lower income earners and will mean that many low income earners will pay no income tax at all as a result of this legislation. In fact something like half a million taxpayers will be relieved of all tax obligation by this new system. Of course, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in his contribution to this debate made no mention of that because he is not at all concerned with it. 
I should mention too that the level of allowable deductions in respect of education expenses has also been altered. A student rebate of $200 will apply. This compares with the previous student deduction of $260. The rebate is better for all taxpayers who have student children dependent upon them than was the allowable deduction of $260 under the old system. Also, of course, the allowable deduction for education expenses has been increased from $150 to $250. Of course, that also becomes a rebate, as do all other expenses, at 40c in the dollar. 
That is a brief outline of what the legislation proposes. It is a very radical change to the system. The hallmark of the Australian income tax system has been that since the Labor Government went out of office there has been very little change in the income tax system. There was some notable change in the early 1950s but from about 1 954 until the time when the Liberals went out of office in 1972 the system remained virtually the same. There was a little change here and a little change there. But for 15 years, from 1954 to 1969, there was virtually no change in the income tax scale at all. During that time, of course, taxpayers moved up into higher and higher tax brackets, and this is something which I will come to in a moment. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to the need for tax indexation, and I would like to make some comments on that. For those who are not too well aware of what is meant by tax indexation, it simply means a system of adjusting the income tax scales each year so that with inflation people do not move up into higher and higher tax brackets if their incomes are doing no more than keeping up with inflation. The fact is, as I have said, that under the previous Government inflation, with our progressive income tax system, did take people into higher and higher tax brackets. I shall give an example of the extent to which this happened. In 1949 when Labor went out of office a person on average weekly earnings, with a spouse and 2 children to keep, paid 2.9 per cent of his income in income tax. By the time Labor came back to office in 1972 the percentage of income that the same situated person would have paid in income tax had increased from 2.9 per cent to 14.5 per cent. In other words, the income tax burden had increased very substantially under the Liberal Government, mainly as a result of there being no adjustment of tax scales, which meant that people moved into higher and higher tax brackets as a result of inflation. That, of course, has continued under this Government. We do not deny that. But this is not something new. It has not just started with us. It happened almost every year for the 23 years that the Liberals were in office. 
There is a growing demand in this country for tax indexation because obviously it just cannot keep going on the way it is at the moment. If it did, eventually all taxpayers would finish up on a maximum rate, and that, of course, would be rather absurd. So there is a growing demand for a system whereby people are not automatically forced into higher tax scales by inflation. I think it is true to say that the Government appreciates the problem. But there are various reasons for not having introduced such a system this year. The first reason is that we thought it was more important to revamp the system in the way I have just described. That has been a very important revamping. It is something which the Mathews Committee said was quite a possibility, that if the Government could not see its way clear to introduce tax indexation now it could at least change the system in something like the way we have put before the Parliament, and that is what is being done. 
Secondly, to have applied tax indexation at this time would have cost $ 1,000m, and that is a lot of money. If we had introduced tax indexation at this time we would have required a much larger Budget or alternatively we would have had to cut expenditure by $ 1 ,000m. Both of these alternatives would have had very important economic effects which I will come to in a moment. Thirdly, a Medibank levy was refused by the Opposition. The fact was that we had a major program coming on this year which made the introduction of tax indexation impossible. This program was the introduction of Medibank. The Opposition refused to allow us to raise a Medibank levy. Having done so by stopping the legislation in the Senate it then says that we should have introduced tax indexation, or at least partial tax indexation to the extent of $500m a year to stimulate demand. Now the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who is the Opposition spokesman on social welfare, is saying that we should also have a Medibank levy. I would ask the Opposition to make up its mind. What does it really think? First of all it blocks the Medibank levy and then it says: 'We need tax indexation or partial tax indexation to provide stimulation to the economy'. Then one of its major spokesmen says: 
 What we need is- ' (  Quorum formed) 
I was saying before I was interrupted that the Opposition seemed to be in a state of total confusion about tax indexation and Medibank. On the one hand members of the Opposition said that we should not have a Medibank levy, then they said that we should have tax indexation, or at least partial tax indexation, because of the need to stimulate the economy, and on the other hand they seem to be saying through one of their spokesmen that we should have a Medibank levy. That shows an enormous change of mind. Of course, a Medibank levy would have the effect of wiping out the economic effects which the Opposition expects to get from partial tax indexation because the amount that would be raised by the Medibank levy would be something like $500m which is what would be handed back to the taxpayers by way of partial tax indexation as proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his Budget proposals. 
I suggest that there are good reasons for not having introduced tax indexation at this time. There is one other matter to which I have not referred and which is important, that is that under the new proposals the marginal tax rate for incomes between $5,000 and $10,000 does not change. As wage earners in the $5,000 to $ 10,000 bracket receive higher pay they will still be paying a higher proportion of their income tax but they will not be paying higher marginal rates of tax. That is a substantial step towards the introduction of a tax indexation system. This is not the full extent of it but it is a substantial step along the way. 
Finally, I would briefly make the point that the Opposition, of course, finds tax indexation attractive because it means that it would be difficult for the Government to raise tax revenues very greatly at any one time. That accords with the Opposition's philosophy completely because it does not really have any concern with public expenditure. Members of the Opposition do not have any real interest in the Government's economic programs at the moment which are designed to provide better educational opportunities for the ordinary children in Australia, better welfare, better urban development and a better environment. They are not interested in those kinds of policies. Theirs is an elitist philosophy that talks about the freedom to spend one's own income. What they want is a system where there is a minimal tax payment and minimal activity by governments to make the life of the ordinary Australian better in those areas where they most need assistance from governments, in areas where they cannot possibly provide for themselves. It is a rich man's philosophy to talk about freedon to spend one's own income. That is a philosophy that benefits those who can afford the best education, the best health services and the best environment. 
It is indeed ironic that a Government which proclaimed loudly and frequently throughout the recent election campaign that it would bring honesty into government should be publicly exposed as deceitful and dishonest only 7 weeks after it won the election. It attained that dubious distinction by breaking its promise to S million wage and salary earners in this country that it would support wage indexation at least in the current economic circumstances. Its action in opposing the full 6.4 per cent increase in wages claimed by the unions in the recent national wage case was universally interpreted as a breach of an election promise. The trade unions, the national employers organisations, State governments of all political persuasions, the Press and the general public were all taken by surprise because the Government's commitment to the support of wage indexation seemed to be so unequivocal. In these circumstances the Government's humiliating rebuff by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which completely rejected its argument and castigated its key submissions as unpersuasive assertions was exceedingly well deserved. 
Let there be no doubt that there was a commitment by the Government to support wage indexation in the current economic circumstances. 
In statement after statement the Government gave that commitment in the pre-election period. At no time did it in any way suggest that its commitment was in any way tentative or only partial. Indeed on one occasion the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  even forecasted the size of the wage increase that would result from the indexation case. In these circumstances, for the Government to claim that it was not committed to the support of full indexation is an insult to the Parliament and to the people. Yet that is what has been claimed. 
The Prime Minister in a statement reported in the Melbourne  Age  of 31 January this year announced a decision of the Cabinet to oppose full indexation and to support about half of that increase. I shall read part of the Prime Minister's statement. He said: 
The Government has expressed its support, under current economic circumstances, for the wage indexation principles laid down by the commission last year. 
The first of the wage indexation principles enumerated by the commission last year states: 'The commission will adjust its award wages and salaries each quarter in relation to the most recent movement of the six capitals' CPI unless it is persuaded to the contrary by those seeking to oppose the adjustment. ' 
The Prime Minister then continues with his own statement: 
Because of the difficult economic circumstances, particularly inflation and unemployment, the Government finds it necessary to argue that instead of granting the increase of 6.4 per cent which would result from fully passing on the CPI increase for the last 2 quarters, the commission should at this time determine upon a figure of about half that order. 
This claim that the Government, in opposing full indexation, was abiding by its election promise simply does not stand up to analysis. Let us look at a number of the statements that were made. Firstly, a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 28 November which related to the supplementary economic statement which was issued with the Prime Minister's election policy speech, stated in respect of wage indexation: 
The Government will support the wage indexation agreement in the current economic circumstances. 
That is an emphatic statement. This is all that was said, although the use of the word 'agreement' is somewhat curious because it is an arbitrated decision rather than an agreement. But still there was an interpretation by everyone that that emphatic statement was support for wage indexation. There was no elaboration of qualification to suggest otherwise. Anyone would interpret that as full commitment, especially as the Prime Minister then went on in that statement to promise tax indexation which, as the Prime Minister said, would 'underpin the wage indexation agreement', so confirming the commitment to full wage indexation unless, of course, the commitment to tax indexation is also subject to substantial but unstated qualifications too, and that may well be the case. 
So clearly this major policy statement must have given the impression to all who saw it that the Government was going to support full indexation in the national wage case due to start in early February. Certainly the Government did add the rider about present economic circumstances but no one expected any substantial change in the next couple of months. Furthermore, the Government could hardly now claim that it did not know in this election period what the economic circumstances were likely to be when the case came on. The Prime Minister knew that unemployment was high, he kept proclaiming that there was no sign of economic recovery, and he forecast that the rate of inflation would be around 5 per cent for the December quarter. But still he committed his Government to the support of wage indexation in those economic circumstances. 
The day before the Prime Minister delivered his policy speech he held a Press conference at his Toorak home, and I refer to the transcript of that conference which I have obtained from the Parliamentary Library. At page 3 of the transcript he said: 
For the December quarter the inflation rate alone will be S percent. 
So clearly he knew the general extent of the price rise for that quarter which in fact was 5.6 per cent when it was announced. He went on: 
Now, let's leave it at that. I'm not going beyond the December quarter at the present time, except to say that the 5 per cent December quarter figure will flow through into the wage indexation proposals- or not proposals, decisionsthat will inevitably be made under the guidelines in, is it late February or early March? 
In fact it turned out that the decision was made by 13 February. But I stress the importance of what the Prime Minister said during that Press conference which was reported to the nation. He said that inevitably there would be a flow-on under the guidelines of the 5 per cent into wages. If that was not promising the people that the Government supported the full indexation, I do not know how much firmer that commitment could have been. Further, the Prime Minister said: 
The December quarter figure will be about 5 per cent, within the barest fraction of 5 per cent one way or another. And that will flow through with the previous figure from the last quarter. 
He was asked the question: 0.8 per cent would be added to that? 
The Prime Minister gave the answer: 
Well, it will be near enough to 6 per cent increase in wages in the February-March quarter. 
There could hardly be a more explicit commitment. Here we have the Prime Minister saying he knows there will be a 5 per cent or more price rise in the December quarter and that it will inevitably be passed on under the wage indexation guidelines, as will the 0.8 per cent increase of the previous quarter, and concluding there will be approximately a 6 per cent increase in wages in the March quarter. Does the Government now seriously contend that this was not a commitment? If so, it can hardly expect the people of Australia to take seriously any of its supposed commitments. We shall have to examine them all, look at the small print and any conceivable ambiguities they may contain to see whether there is any possible way the Government can wriggle out of them, and even then we will not be sure that the Government will abide by its word. 
There is one other piece of evidence to which I would like to refer. Although it is perhaps superfluous I mention it because it may be referred to by others. It is a letter from the Prime Minister to the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations- CAGEO. The Prime Minister was asked in a letter from the Council the question: 
CAGEO wages policy is to support the new wage index system. Our support is based on the strong desire to preserve the real value of the Australian Government employees' wages during the current inflationary period. Will your Party, if elected to government, give support during the Arbitration Commission's future quarterly indexation cases to the adjustment of wages for price movements as measured by the consumer price index in the form of a full percentage adjustment on total award wages? 
His answer to that was - 
His answer was given before the election, on 9 December. He said: 
We support the indexation guidelines from the Full Bench totally. The Full Bench has said that the indexation guidelines can apply to the total wage and not just the award wage, and that it will hear individual cases in relation to those guidelines. 
In the context of the question asked, there was universal acceptance by those who saw that answer that it represented a total commitment to full indexation. But that in fact was not what eventuated. So far we have referred only to commitments by the Prime Minister. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  also made commitments of support. It is particularly interesting to look at his commitments to indexation in view of the reasons given later by the Government for opposing full wage indexation. In its submissions to the Commission the Government made it quite clear that it opposed full wage indexation because it regarded it as inflationary and that a revival of inflationary expectations would damage prospects for economic recovery. I ask the House to look at what the Minister for Labor and Immigration, as he then was, now Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, said in an interview reported in the  Australian Financial Review  on 2 1 November 1975. He said: 
So long as indexation is able to sustain the vast majority of compliance that the Full Bench has made it quite clear that it needs to survive, and so long as the abnormal inflation conditions of recent times apply, we think indexation is worth backing. These are 2 quite important qualifications. The first is compliance and the second is the recent quite high level of inflation. 
I emphasise what the Minister was saying. He was saying that a condition of the Government's support was a continuing abnormal level of inflation, but it is that very condition of abnormal inflation that the Minister said was a condition of his support for indexation that was subsequently used by the Government as its reason for opposing full indexation, as is shown by the statement by the Prime Minister, which I read, announcing a decision of Cabinet. 
It is relevant at this point to note the process by which the Government reached its decision to oppose full wage indexation. As everyone in this House knows, this matter was considered by the Economic Committee of Cabinet, which includes the Prime Minister, and it decided to support full wage indexation. According to the Press, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations supported full wage indexation but it was opposed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  On this occasion the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations won the battle, no doubt using the Government's public commitment to full indexation as one of his arguments. He was given leave by the Prime Minister to announce publicly the decision. However, before he could do so, or before he did, someone got to the Prime Minister and persuaded him to take the matter to a full Cabinet meeting, where the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations lost out. 
This decision of Cabinet came only at the end of the week before the national wage case was to start. I understand that counsel for the Government in the case had to abandon the brief he had been given in support of wage indexation, and then over the course of the weekend another brief opposing full indexation was hastily compiled for him. This hardly seems like the firm, decisive and competent Government that the Prime 
Minister proclaimed his Government would be. Of course the irony in all this is that the Government's breach of promise and policy somersaults were of no avail. Its arguments were flatly refuted by the Arbitration Commission and the full 6.4 per cent granted. I ask the House to note the unequivocal way in which the Arbitration Commission refuted the Government's case. On page 6 of its decision it said: 
The Commonwealth has argued that the economic shock of administering in one quarter a wage increase of such a magnitude would revive inflationary expectations, discourage consumption and investment and increase unemployment; and that increased confidence to consumers and business 'can only be achieved at this stage by an increase less than 6.4 percent'. 
We are not persuaded by these assertions. 
It goes on to say why it is not. There could not be a more emphatic rebuttal of the Commonwealth Government's position than was given in that statement by the Arbitration Commission. All those who know the language of the Commission realise that a statement that it is not persuaded by these assertions is castigation of your submissions indeed. 
It is fortunate for this country that the Arbitration Commission saw fit to abide by its principles and reject the Government's arguments. Had it not done so, there would have been grave implications for industrial relations and the economy. In regard to industrial relations, there would most certainly have been a tremendous increase in industrial disputation as unions sought to overcome a cut in real wages, because what it meant was not just slowing down the rate of real wage increase but cutting real wages. The Government argued for a cut in real wages, that is in the value of what a wage will buy, of 3.2 per cent, and the unions would most certainly have reacted very strongly to that. 
Secondly, wage indexation would have been destroyed. Unions would have known that they could not count on the Arbitration Commission any more to maintain real wages, so they would have sought to protect their members by going for anticipatory wage claims as they did in 1974, so creating further inflation. So the Commonwealth Government's argument that the 3.2 per cent would reduce inflationary expectations is in fact quite contrary to what would have happened. It would have exacerbated inflationary expectations because, without the protection of indexation, people would have to go for broke to make sure they kept in front of inflation. That would certainly have been the reasoning of unions. 
Finally, the Arbitration Commission would have lost control of wage fixing procedures. One would have thought that the Commission's role in this area was something that the Government would support. Does it really support the proposal that there be just mayhem in the wage fixation field, or does it support the proposition that there be some kind of wage fixing structure and that the Arbitration Commission have a strong role? Apparently it does not support the latter because it was prepared to dice the system of wage fixing which had brought about moderation in wage claims, protected workers from inflation and dramatically lowered the level of industrial disputation. 
In conclusion, we say this is a sorry exercise and has shattered not only the Government's credibility for abiding by its word but also its credibility in regard to industrial relations policy and economic policy. Its actions in opposing full indexation, knowing the likely reaction of the unions, is consistent with a policy of taking the unions on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Does the Prime Minister recall his Press conference at his Toorak home on 26 November last, at the conclusion of which he stated that the official forecast by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development of Australia's rate of inflation in 1976, which was not then published, was 1 5 per cent? Is he aware that 5 days after the election the OECD figures were published and revealed that the forecast for Australia in 1976 was not 15 per cent, as claimed by the Prime Minister, but 13 per cent? Will he now inform the House whether he stated the incorrect figure knowing it to be incorrect or whether he did not know the correct figure but chose to claim that he did? In either case will he now say why he deceived the Australian public? 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  as usual is strong on cliches and short on logic. The fact is that this Government has a tremendous amount to live up to in the area of economic policy. It claimed right through the period of the last Government and particularly during the 2 election campaigns that the Labor Government was responsible for the economic ills of this country and solely responsible for what was happening- solely responsible for the massive increase in inflation, which we admit occurred as it occurred everywhere else, and for the recession which followed that inflation. It flowed from the assertions of the then Opposition that if it had been in government the problems would have been solved, there would have been no or very low inflation and there would not have been a recession. This is a monstrous misrepresentation of the factual situation. As the Treasurer and those on the other side of the House with any economic knowledge know, what was happening in this country was not happening in isolation. It was happening as part of the economic problems which have beset the Western world from 1973 onwards. 
I do not have time to go through the details of that but it is a fact that every country was beset with much higher rates of inflation than they had ever before experienced and much higher levels of unemployment. Some countries had higher rates of inflation and others had higher rates of unemployment and it was absurd to suggest that what was happening here was happening in isolation, but this suggestion was desperately reiterated time and again by the then Opposition. The fact is that the present Government deceived the people by saying that the Labor Government was solely responsible. This Government now has a tremendous responsibility because having deceived the people it must now face the consequences of that deception and show to the nation that it can solve the economic problems and do it speedily; otherwise it will lose all credibility in this country. I predict that the Government will not solve the economic problems of this country, speedily or otherwise. Already we find the Treasurer saying that it will take some time to bring about an economic recovery, it will be a difficult process, it will be a full 3-year program, and making all the cautionary comments that were never made when the Government was in Opposition or for the month before the last election when it was the caretaker Government. 
The fact is that this Government is totally mesmerised by the deficit. It is almost completely captivated by the monetarist school of economics. I say 'almost completely' because it does not follow that school of thought right through. If it had asked the doyen of the monetarist school of economics, Professor Friedman, what to do about wage indexation he would have told it that it needed to give the 6.4 per cent increase because he believes in full wage indexation. So if the Government is to be monetarist why does it not follow that theory right through? It does not do that. It accepts that theory in the fiscal or monetary area and it does not accept it in respect of wage fixation. The fact is that there is an enormous amount of misrepresentation about the Labor Government's deficits. It has been repeated here time and again that inflation in this country stemmed from the deficits brought in by Labor governments. That is a lie. 
The fact is that the Budget defict in 1972 brought in by the McMahon Government was $630m. That turned out to be slightly higher in the event. We budgeted then in 1973 for a deficit of $687m. That turned out to be only $293m by the end of the year. In 1974 we budgeted for a deficit of $570m. That turned out to be $2.5 billion, which was much higher than we had budgeted for. I make this point: The fact is that the rate of inflation reached its zenith before there was ever any expansion in the Budget deficit. The highest rate of inflation came at the end of 1974, and at that time the deficit was just starting to be created. It was not above the levels of normality for the previous few years. In fact, in that year 1974 we had budgeted for a notably lower deficit that the McMahon Government had in 1972. So let us have no more of this nonsense which has been reiterated here by the Treasurer, who has departed the scene, that inflation was caused by Labor deficits. It is a total untruth. 
We say that the growth in the deficit in 1974-75 beyond what was budgeted for was not accounted for by the Government just throwing money around like confetti. It happened for 3 reasons. Firstly, it happened because there was a decline in receipts created by the recession. There were fewer people working and therefore fewer people paying income tax and there was a reduction in company profits. There was a higher than estimated rate of inflation which increased the costs of government administration anyway. 
Also once employment started to deteriorate notably, as it did in the last part of 1974, there was an expansion in a number of government programs to try to maintain full employment. Had we not done that, the rate of unemployment in this country would have been much higher than in fact occurred. Then in 1975 we budgeted for a deficit which was at about the same level as actually occurred in the previous year; it was $2.8 billion. In fact, if the present Government had not got into power it would have finished up being something like $4.8 billion, or $2 billion higher. That was not because there was any mad throwing around of money again but simply because there was a drastic reduction in the rate of growth of wages. The Budget forecast was 22 per cent; in fact, it looks as though it will be more like 12 per cent this year. Because of that, the tax revenue was a lot less. That was the major reason for the expansion in that deficit; it was not because of wild, extravagant government spending. 
The same thing has been happening with government deficits overseas. An article in the October 1974 issue of the  Economist  showed that the United States, which budgeted for a deficit of $58 billion, anticipated a deficit of something like $90 billion. The same thing happened in Japan, in West Germany and in the United Kingdom. Two of those countries did not have Labor governments, and they all found that they had a recession following their inflation, just as we did. Then they had a substantial decline in tax receipts because many fewer people were paying tax as a result of being unemployed, and also because the rate of increase in wages dropped drastically in all of those countries. 
In the United States there is a concept known as the full employment deficit. When looking at deficits they say that one should not look simply at the fact of the deficit in isolation from the state of the economy. If the deficit is caused by recession, then one can see just how big the real full employment deficit is by anticipating what that deficit would be if there was full employment. I suggest that the really important thing is not the actual level of the deficit in the middle of a recession but what the full employment deficit is. To say otherwise is to follow the monetarist's school fully and to bring about much higher unemployment in order eventually to bring about recovery. It is assumed that that may eventually happen. It may not; it may just get worse. It certainly would mean that there would be far higher levels of unemployment. Is the Government prepared to do that? Is it really prepared to follow through the consequences of its logic and create far higher unemployment? The Government is starting on that process right now. It is starting to create higher unemployment. It is jeopardising the recovery. By making expenditure cuts and also by starting to introduce monetary policies which are leading to higher interest rates, the Government is jeopardising that recovery. If it follows through that logic into next year we will have much higher unemployment in this country. The Government must know that to be the fact. Perhaps it is just prepared to do that, hoping that by 1978 things will be slightly better and that people will have forgotten the horrors of 1976 or 1977. 
That is the logic of the Government's position. It is one which should be of great concern to the people of this country. The Government is obsessed by a deficit and by the growth of the money supply. I simply make this point in relation to the money supply: The Treasurer said today- he has said it continually- that the money supply increased by 20 per cent in 1975. He does not say a thing about the fact that the rate of growth in the money supply was dropping during the last part of 1975. In the September quarter of 1975 the growth rate, on an annual basis, was 19 per cent. In the December quarter it dropped back to 12 per cent. In other words, the Labor Government was reducing the rate of increase in the money supply, and to talk of the annual figure for 1975 is a deception. 
We do not oppose the concept of the savings bonds. We do oppose the absurdity of the 10.5 per cent interest rate which was totally unnecessary. It was hailed as a great success by the Treasurer. If it had been much more of a success it would have been a total disaster because it would have dragged the money out of the building societies and the banks, and there would have been a credit squeeze in no time. After a mere two and a half weeks it was scrapped and Series 2 was introduced with lower interest rates. It is interesting to note that the interest rate of 10.5 per cent- that miscalculation, that incompetencemeans that for the next 7 years an annual amount of $7m has to be paid in interest which would not have to be paid otherwise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications concerns a report on ABC radio on Saturday 31 January that Exxon, the world's largest oil company, had made payments to political parties in Italy, Japan and Australia. I ask him: Is he aware that this item was reported only on the 10 a.m. News In Brief? Can he explain why such an item was not reported on any subsequent major news service of the ABC? Does he consider this item to be so inconsequential as not to deserve further publicity? Can he give the House a categorical assurance that the ABC is not being subjected to political censorship? 
I address a question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerning the proposed new pay arrangements for trainees under the National Employment and Training scheme. Is the Minister aware that under the proposals many trainees will suffer a drastic reduction in their allowance, some by as much as $73.40 a week? As these people undertook their training and made commitments on the basis that payment would be made to those receiving full time training of at least $96.80 a week does the Minister not consider that his action amounts to a breach of faith? Is he aware that because of the reduced allowances and the tight means test imposed on other income many people will have to cease their training and that the scheme will be far less attractive to prospective applicants? In view of the likely drastic consequences of his action, will he advise the House whether the revised allowances are meant to be the first step towards the complete destruction of the scheme? 

 -Mr Speaker, in rising to speak in this debate may I first congratulate all those honourable members who have made their maiden speeches and particularly the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  whose sentiments were more satisfying to me than those that came from the other side of the House. I would also like to extend my congratulations to you,  Sir, on  the attainment of your office and also to the  Chairman  of Committees. But in saying so,  Sir, I  feel compelled to say that your accession to this high office is marred by the events which enabled the circumstances to arise in which you could become  Speaker  at this time. Indeed, these events likewise mar the attainment of government by the Liberal and National Country Parties. Other speakers on this side of the House have amply expounded on the events of 11 November so I do not intend to traverse that ground again. However, it is interesting to note the expressions of concern by many speakers on the Government side in this debate that we on this side of the House should be so ungracious as to remind everyone of what transpired last November. They show an especial sensitivity to any discussion of the actions of the GovernorGeneral. Clearly they want to forget their acts of constitutional violence and their action in discarding the conventional rules of political behaviour in this country and, more especially, they want the Australian people to forget them too. They want to be respectable and to be seen as a Government that achieved power in the normal course of events. 
Let me assure honourable members opposite however, that there is no possibility of the Opposition's forgiving and forgetting. Although we have only 28 per cent of the seats in this House we nevertheless represent 43 per cent of the voters at the last election. We represent 3 000 000 voters who were incensed and irate at the actions of the coalition parties and of the Governor-General and who now bear a deep sense of bitterness towards those who perpetrated those acts. There is no forgiveness in their hearts- only anger, disgust, disillusionment and fear. It will be a long time indeed before they or their representatives in this place- the parliamentary Labor Party- will be able to put these events out of their minds and behave as though they had never happened. Indeed this legacy of bitterness, which is the price of the coalition victory, has disturbing implications for the future of parliamentary democracy in this country. How many times do honourable members .opposite think they can frustrate, inhibit and hamstring Labor governments or breach the conventional rules of behaviour to the point where they force Labor governments to premature elections or oppose fair and reasonable electoral reform that puts the parties on an even footing without damaging the faith in the parliamentary system of those people in this country who want to achieve reform? The same could also be said of the Government's action in using the Commonwealth Police for political purposes. If the conservative parties in this country continue in this vein they will hardly be in a position to complain if the struggle for reform moves increasingly out of the parliamentary arena into the less sedate world of on the job struggle and public protestation. Political strikes and demonstrations may well become more and more common if those millions who seek to re-organise society conclude that they are the only effective means at their disposal. This is more than likely to be the type of society we are headed for unless the coalition parties show to the people that they really do believe in parliamentary democracy, and are prepared to conduct themselves in a fair and principled fashion. That means, accepting electoral reform and allowing Labor governments to govern and then to be judged on their meritsnot to be ambushed at a time of the coalition 's choosing. 
I am convinced that many members opposite have no idea what a dangerous game they have been playing during the last 3 years. They saw only the short run objective of getting rid of the Labor Government and they did not care what conventions they broke to do it. I say to them that if they wish to have a parliamentary democracy in this country then the means of achieving power is important. If they play a ruthless game of achieving and keeping power at any price, there is no doubt that democracy will not survive in this country. Such action is itself a repudiation of democracy. Futhermore, the process of alienation of a significant section of society is already under way. If this process is not arrested, then some of that section of society may eventually express their resentment and frustration by direct action. If the Government's answer to that is not concession but more repression, then the vicious circle of repression, reaction and further repression will quickly demolish any semblance of democracy in this country. It has happened in other countries. There is no reason to believe that we are immune. Of course, it may be that some honourable members opposite do not particularly mind if that is the end result, so long as it succeeds in keeping the left wing elements in the political spectrum from gaining power. To them I would say: 'As ye sow, so may ye reap'. They should bear in mind that it is at least possible that if our society degenerates into a repressive Fascist style State then it may eventually induce a strong leftist reaction as in Portugal, for instance. 
I would ask all honourable members opposite therefore to think long and hard about their role in this society and the role that their Party has played in the last 3 years. If they really want to preserve democracy then they may well have to revise their ideas of acceptable political behaviour in the very near future. It may mean that they will have to tolerate from time to time a government that they loathe and tolerate changes to society which they abhor. But the alternative is likely to be the eventual destruction of any semblance of democracy and to risk losing in one severe and sudden transfer of power everything that they tried so desperately to retain. One is reminded of European colonists in so many parts of the world. By trying to keep everything they had, the white colonists eventually lost the lot. So it may well be eventually in this country that if the conservative parties and the interests that they represent refuse the Opposition a fair chance to govern or to govern effectively then they may eventually find themselves witnessing, not reform, but revolution. 
So far I have addressed my thoughts to the role of the Government Parties. I would hope the Governor-General too would give these matters some thought.  His  actions are just as important in this context as those of the Liberal and Country Parties. Whatever his motivation for doing what he did on 11 November last, there can be no doubt that he struck an enormous blow at the faith of many Australians in the parliamentary system. While on this point I would like to comment briefly on the touchiness of members opposite to criticism of the Governor-General. It seems to me that if the Governor-General decides to come into the kitchen he should be prepared to put up with the heat, to coin a phrase. An apolitical Governor-General is properly excluded from political comment, but once he enters the political fray his actions surely must be legitimately subject to political criticism. . 
To stifle criticism of the political actions of the Governor-General would be to stifle freedom of speech in this country. Yet we understand that the Government is investigating the possibility of invoking the Crimes Act against those who have made such criticisms. If such action were to be taken it would be a major step towards the destruction of the freedom of speech in this country. The next step would be to use the Crimes Act to prevent or restrict criticism of the Government. The Act already makes provision for it. The mere contemplation of using the Crimes Act to silence the Opposition is colossal hypocrisy from a government that gained power by making outlandish accusations of dictatorship against the Labor Government in general, and Prime Minister Whitlam in particular and is even now pontificating about how it stands basically for the freedom of the individual. 
This leads me to discuss an interesting development in this debate, namely, the concern of the coalition parties to develop a philosophy to rationalise their conservatism. This process began some time ago but it has reached a degree of assertiveness in this debate that was not previously apparent.  Speaker  after  speaker  on the Government side has referred to it, but none more than the Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  who started this development when he first became leader of bis Party. In addressing the National Press Club on 3 1 July last year he said: 
A fundamental freedom that must be expanded is control by individuals of the income they earn. Freedom to spend one's own income is just as important as freedom of speech, of religion and of association. 
This rather remarkable statement, which looks like a prescription for the complete abolition of income tax, is perhaps not so surprising when one considers that the Prime Minister confessed when he became leader of his Party that he obtained his philosophical inspiration from the ultraconservative writer Ayn Rand, one of whose books is entitled as the member for Grayndler mentioned previously today,  The Virtue of Selfishness.  With such a Christian ethic as his guiding light it was no wonder that the now Prime Minister could portray blatant self-interest as worthy principle. 
Since then this curious concept of fundamental freedom has been further developed, and its fullest expression is to be found in the speech of the Prime Minister in this debate. The message now is that true freedom is to be found only in a society with a small public or government sector. An increasing public sector is seen as reducing the freedom of individuals and as an attempt to 'determine people's lives for them'. We are told that a government that increases the public sector is elitist because the Government presumes to know better than individuals how money should be spent. Such a government is said to operate on the basis that it has the right to determine the fate of every person in the country and to take away from people responsibility for decisions concerning the manner in which they live. 
On the other hand, we are told by the Prime Minister that a government that wishes to reduce the size of the public sector stands for a society in which people are free, in which different life styles and the pursuit of happiness are toleratedhis word- in which governments do not presume to live other people's lives but in which there is a real concern to help the disadvantaged. Rarely, if ever, can a Party leader in this Parliament have parroted such a farrago of philosophical platitudes. This pseudophilosophy is nothing more than a pathetic attempt to provide principle where none exists, to disguise blind and selfish reaction to the redistribution of income and resources as the defence of freedom. The fact is that before Labor came to office the proportion of gross domestic product taken up by government expenditure was extremely low by international standards. Figures published in the Organisation for Economic and Co-operation and Development  Observer  of April 1975 show that in 1972- the latest year for which figures were available- only six of the 24 OECD countries, the 24 most developed Western capitalist countries in the world, had a level of current government expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product that was lower than Australia's. The level of most countries was much higher than that of Australia. Our figure was 23.7 per cent, but 12 countries had a figure of over 30 per cent. Of those 12, 3 were over 40 per cent. Even the United States figure, at 29.6 per cent was well above that for Australia, while below us were such countries as Spain, Portugal and Greece, countries which have not been exactly noted for zealously safeguarding the freedom of the individual. Since then our public sector has increased. Even so, it is still way below that of most other developed countries in the socalled free world. 
If Labor was guilty of inhibiting freedom by raising the proportion of government expenditure in this country, how much more guilty are the governments of the other capitalist countries in the world, many of which are anything but socialist? Furthermore, it is grossly hypocritical for the coalition parties to accuse a government that increases the size of the public sector and increases the burden of taxation of destroying freedom., When the Liberal and Country Parties were in office, they did precisely that. When Labor went out of office in 1949 a man on average weekly earnings with a wife and 2 children paid 3 per cent of his income in income tax. By the time Labor came back to office in 1972 such a worker paid 1 5 per cent of his income in income tax. Let there be no doubt that if increasing the size of the public sector and so increasing taxation inhibits freedom, then the Liberal and National Country Parties have much to answer for. Clearly, by comparison with what happens in other countries or what has happened previously in this country, Labor was not doing anything extraordinary in increasing the size of the public sector. 
Leaving that aside and leaving aside the Prime Minister's more inane accusations, such as the one that Labor was trying to determine the fate of every person in this country, what case is there for arguing that increasing the public sector reduces the level of freedom? It seems to me that one can argue that way only if one ignores the expansion of freedom that comes from government expenditure and concentrates on the reduced freedom of individuals to spend their income as a result of paying more tax. But to ignore the expansion of freedom that comes from increased government expenditure is to ignore the point of the whole exercise. One way in which Labor increased the size of the public sector was by substantially increasing the real value of pensions and other social security benefits. Can anyone deny that those increased welfare benefits did other than increase the freedom of the recipients to live a normal life rather than the poverty stricken existence that was their lot under previous coalition governments? The same thing is true of education. By greatly increasing government expenditure on education we enhanced the freedom of students to gain knowledge and understanding and the freedom to have a more equal opportunity in life than would otherwise have been the case. So one could go on to the various other items of government expenditure which were increased by Labor. It is clearly absurd to argue that increasing the size of the public sector necessarily involves a diminution in the total sum of freedom, particularly when it was already at a level well below the average for comparable countries. 
The sheer absurdity of Fraserism, if I may use that term to encompass the new philosophy, is probably best shown by comparing Australia with a country such as Sweden, where the size of the public sector in 1972 was one and three quarter times the size of Australia 's. In what way are the Swedes less free than us? Certainly they pay more tax. A man on average weekly earnings has a marginal tax rate near 60 per cent compared with 35 per cent in this country. But there seems to be no lack of drive and enterprise. The living standard of the Swedes is the second highest in the world, their industries are modern and efficient, and their tariff barriers are among the lowest in the Western world. So surely it cannot be said that there is any lack of enterprise, and allied with that there is a lack of repressive legislation on the freedom of the individual in such areas as censorship, for instance, which puts Australia and especially Queensland to shame. Nor do the Swedes want to change that state of affairs. A recent survey in Sweden, quoted in the United States magazine  Business Week  of December 22 last year, showed that many Swedes thought there should be more expenditure on health, care of the aged, education and the environment. It should also be mentioned in this context that there is no correlation whatever between the size of the public sector in particular countries and their rate of inflation and unemployment. 
The Prime Minister and many other government speakers in this debate asserted that there is a direct relationship between economic instability and the size of the public sector. They produced no evidence whatever to support their allegations, because none exists. The fact is that some countries such as West Germany and Sweden- but there are others- which have a large public sector also have relatively low rates of inflation in the whole spectrum of inflation rates in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. Thus there is no doubt that to assert that a larger public sector necessarily leads to higher inflation simply does not stand up to analysis. Indeed, of the 6 countries which had a smaller public sector than we do, five had much greater rates of inflation at their peak in the period of inflation over the last couple of years. 
Finally on this aspect of the Government's pseudo-philosophy, I come to its ultimate piece of cynicism- its supposed concern with the needs of the disadvantaged, with those in real need. This has been adverted to in quite strong terms in the Governor-General's Speech and also in the Prime Minister's speech in this debate. But by the time the Governor-General had expressed these sentiments the Government had already by its actions shown that it was quite insincere. It had already announced before Parliament was convened that it intended to wipe out funeral benefits for pensioners, to delay pension increases by a month, to eliminate subsidised pharmaceutical . benefits for various disadvantaged groups, and to reduce expenditure on Aborigines by $7m this year. On the other hand, it had acted to distribute largesse on such items as the superphosphate bounty without any regard to need whatever. So much for its concern with real need. 
These actions have quickly made it clear that there has been no fundamental change from previous coalition governments that displayed a callous disregard of the needs of disadvantaged groups. Even in Opposition the coalition parties demonstrated by their attitude to the Schools Commission Bill that their concern was not so much with those in need as those in no need at all. The coalition parties bitterly opposed that Bill which brought in substantial increases in education expenditure on the basis of need, but it was obstructed by the Liberal and National Country Parties because it gave nothing to the wealthier schools. Although the National Country Party eventually adopted the pragmatic approach and voted to pass it, the Liberal Party maintained its opposition to the bitter end. Yet now members of that Party deliver bleeding heart lectures on the need to look after the disadvantaged. 
Their actions speak louder than words. Their actions when previously in government, when in Opposition, and now as the Government again, prove conclusively that their professed concern for those in real need is nothing more than lip service. There can be no doubt that the newfound conservative philosophy expounded by the Prime Minister and his underlings is a complete fraud. When one analyses the highsounding rhetoric, it is revealed as nothing more than the sound of an empty drum. 
-The Opposition brings this matter before the Parliament because it is concerned at the great injustice the Government is about to wreak on thousands of persons training under the National Employment and Training Scheme, and at the substantial reduction in the effectiveness of that scheme that will flow from the Government's action. The action that involves these highly undesirable consequences is the proposal to revise the allowances for NEAT trainees as announced by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on 1 1 February. The Government proposes to scrap the standard rate of allowance for all adult full time trainees, which is currently $96.80, and replace it with an allowance that varies according to the number of the trainee's dependents. 
The new allowances comprise a basic allowance equal to the rate of unemployment benefit for such a person, or whatever other benefit he or she qualifies for, plus a training component of $23.40 which is calculated on the basis of 20 per cent of the average male award rate. These new rates have already been introduced for trainees who started after 11 February and are to be introduced on 1 April for trainees already in training at that date. 
The effect of their introduction will be that many trainees will have their allowances reduced. Some of them will lose them altogether. Many will drop by $73.40 a week and many more will suffer lesser reductions. On the other hand some trainees will receive more than is currently provided but the proof that their number is not large is clearly shown by the statement by the Minister that the new arrangements will enable an extra 3000 persons to be trained for the same total outlay as before. However, this claim is no more than a calculation of what is mathematically possible by reducing the allowance for many trainees and is highly unlikely to be borne out by future events. At this stage I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the effect of proposed new allowances for various categories of NEAT trainees. 

<graphic href="098131197603180_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table shows for various categories of trainees the difference which the new arrangements will make to their allowance. I draw particular attention to that category of trainee whose spouse earns between $70.50 and $238.20 a week. For such trainees, who will be mainly married women, the allowance now becomes $23.40. Such an allowance would barely cover the cost of child care at a commercial child care centre in a capital city. Therefore we see that for those people there is no incentive to undertake training in the future. 
It is important to realise that the table does not show all the picture. Not only have the allowances been altered but also an income test has been imposed. No such test existed under the previous arrangements. This income test is very severe. Indeed, it is the same as that which applies to unemployment benefit. It allows additional income of $6 per week but thereafter the allowance is reduced by $1 for each $1 of additional income. The combined effect of the reduced allowances and the strict limit on additional income will have a devastating effect on some trainees. In one case raised with me, which would not be an isolated case by any means, a widow with a couple of dependent children receives $96.80 in allowance and earns $30 per week for part-time work. Now, however, her allowance will be reduced to $81.15 and for every $1 she earns over $6 in part-time work her allowance will be reduced by $ 1 . 
-I see. In that case it is $20. If she continued to earn additional income of $30 per week her allowance would be reduced and she would be no better off than she is currently. Furthermore, it also has been made impossible for her to retain her previous income level by increased part-time work and she would be no better off than if she earned only $20 in additional income. That part of her allowance which is the designated training component, $23.40, is not subject to the income test but it still means that to restore her financial position to what it was previously she would need to earn approximately $100 a week in additional income. However, to earn that much additional income she almost certainly would require full time work or at least far more work time than would be possible if she were doing a full time retraining course and trying to raise 2 children single-handed. 
How ironic it is that this traumatic situation is imposed on her by a Government that claims to support individual initiative. She is left with the option of accepting a permanently reduced standard of living for the duration of her training or chucking it in and getting a full time job. Clearly many people in this kind of situation will take the latter course and every time that this happens the training and the resources expended on that training, in many cases amounting to several thousand dollars, will have been wasted. 
Another example that would not be uncommon is that of an unemployed man with a wife and 2 children. He commenced a NEAT course on $96.80 and his wife worked part time for $80 a week. Their combined income was thus $176.80 and they entered into various commitments on the basis that they would earn this level of income while his training continued. But now the man's allowance will fall by $73.40 to $23.40 a week and the family income will be reduced accordingly to $103.40. Again there certainly will be great financial pressure on such a person to abandon his course and accordingly waste the resources spent on his training. 
Subsequent speakers on this side in this debate will refer to various colleges and institutions where many trainees have been affected in a similar fashion to those I have described already. All these examples raise a very pertinent point in this debate and that is the obligation of the Government to trainees who went into the scheme on the promise that they would be paid $96.80 and made their commitments accordingly. We of the Opposition strongly contend that the Government does have an obligation to these trainees. It may even be that in some cases a legal obligation exists on the Australian Government to meet its part of the contract. I understand that this possibility is receiving careful consideration in some quarters. Whether or not there is a legal obligation, there can be no doubt that there is a moral obligation on the Government at least to maintain the previous rate of allowance. It is no excuse simply to assert, as the Minister did, that the coalition policy before the last election was to introduce a means test on NEAT and that it is now simply carrying out that policy. Where and when did the coalition parties say before the election that they would change the form of NEAT allowances? It certainly was not in the employment and industrial relations policy as published before the election, though that document had much to say about the desirability of training schemes; nor was it in the election speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  But, even if a policy commitment was made before the election, it certainly was not made in terms that suggested that many trainees would lose a large part of their allowance. Even if there had been such a frank disclosure of intention, we still say that the Government had an obligation to keep faith with those people. The fact is that new governments always inherit a variety of commitments which may not be legally binding but which have been entered into in good faith, and an honourable government would meet these commitments. This Government, by reneging on its obligations to existing NEAT trainees and by its cynical breach of faith with the several thousand people involved, is acting in a thoroughly dishonourable fashion. Yet this is the Government that boasted at the last election that it would bring integrity and honour back into government. What a hollow sham that claim is now shown to be 
In view of all that I have put to this point, it is rather remarkable to note that, according to the Minister, the purpose of revising the allowances was to put them on a more equitable basis and to enable more persons to be trained for the same total cost. In our view, the first of these objectives is completely misconceived and the second not only will not be achieved but the result will be quite the opposite of that which is intended. To take this latter point first, from what I have demonstrated already it is certain that many trainees will have to give up their courses. Furthermore, the scheme will be much less attractive to most prospective applicants. How then will more people be trained with these new allowances? The result almost certainly will be that far fewer persons will be trained than was the case before. Indeed, when one examines what the new allowances will entail one wonders whether the Government's intention is not, after all, to reduce expenditure on NEAT but to do it in an underhand way. But, whether this is the case or not, if the intention of the introduction of the new allowances is to train more people, they will totally fail to meet that objective. 
The other stipulated reason for the new procedures- that is, to make the scheme more equitable by putting the allowances on a needs basis- is just as misguided, but the reasons are more complex. At first glance it might have some appeal to allocate allowances according to the number of dependants of the applicant, particularly if such a policy were applied only to new trainees so that many existing trainees would not be cut back midway through their training. However, such a policy involves a fundamental misconception of what NEAT is all about. It assumes that NEAT is some kind of welfare scheme in which the beneficiaries receives a little extra for doing some retraining instead of just waiting for a job to turn up. But that is not the real purpose of NEAT. It was conceived not as a welfare program but rather as a crucial part of an active manpower program in which the principal aim is to ensure that the labour market is well balanced; that is, that the numbers offering for employment in each occupation are as nearly as possible equal to the job opportunities available for each occupation. 
Given that the scheme's objective is to overcome structural imbalances in the labour force, it is far more appropriate to set the allowances on criteria that reflect the labour market nature of the program rather than on an irrelevant welfare concept. That in fact was what was recommended by the Cochrane Committee of Inquiry into Labour Market Training which was established by the then Minister for Labor, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  in December 1973. That Committee considered in some detail what would be the appropriate form of the allowances to be paid under a comprehensive training scheme such as the then Government was intending to establish. In doing so, it observed that allowances payable in some of the then existing training schemes were based on the appropriate welfare benefit plus a supplementary training allowance. In view of what is now happening, it is extraordinarily interesting to note that the Committee decided nevertheless to reject the welfare approach and did so on the advice of then Department of Labor, which Department recommended not only abandonment of the welfare approach but also that the allowance be based on the average adult male award wage. That was accepted by the Committee and the Government and is the basis of the current rate of $96.80. 
Thus we have the rather extraordinary situation that in drastically altering the form of the allowance the Government is acting against the wishes of the Department which was greatly involved in devising the NEAT scheme and which now administers that program. This raises the very pertinent question of whose advice the Government is following in moving to change the allowances. It is also relevant to note that the Department recommended the flat rate allowance because it considered that the allowance should be such as to give an incentive to people to retrain but not so high as would in general equal what the trainees would earn once trained. The Committee accepted that and also recommended that the allowance be taxable so that the after-tax allowance would vary according to the number of dependants. This, of course, is exactly what happens to wage earners; they are not paid according to the number of dependants but are paid a rate for the job and the state then takes account of the number of dependants in considering what level of income tax should be paid on that wage. 
Thus it is clear that the original allowances for NEAT trainees were not grabbed out of the air but were a calculated assessment, by the then Department of Labor, the Cochrane Committee and eventually the Government, of what would be a reasonable rate looked at from the standpoint of the needs of a successful manpower policy. From what I have said to this stage it is clear that the Government's action is quite reprehensible in that it will limit severely the development of a comprehensive retraining program and will create hardship for current trainees. We suggest, therefore, that the Government should scrap its proposed new allowances and retain the original form of the allowances. If it will not do that, we ask that it at least give consideration to phasing in the new allowances so that trainees who commenced on the old allowances are not adversely affected. If the Government is determined to wreck the NEAT scheme, we see no reason why it should insist on wrecking the lives of the trainees as well. 
I was rather amazed to hear the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  say that government intervention was a bad thing. Coming from someone in the National Country Party, I can only regard that as a breathtaking remark since, surely, the Country Party must be the past masters in this Parliament at organising government intervention to support their own interests. I think it is a matter not so much of opposing government intervention but of opposing government intervention of a particular kind. I wish to deal with a number of fundamental misconceptions which seem to me to beset the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch). 
The first point I wish to raise is not one on which I wish to spend a great deal of time. It is a fundamentally important point. It is the continued reiteration which we saw for 3 years- and which is still continuing, understandably I supposeof the tired assertions that the state of the economy is due to Labor's mismanagement. I do not intend to say that the Labor Government had nothing to do with the state of the economy. Obviously, we made some mistakes and we must take some of the blame. But it must surely be acknowledged that all around the world there were enormous difficulties in managing the economy in that period. Every country which was organised in a way similar to ours- that is the Western capitalist countries- had enormous problems. Indeed, the statement by the Treasurer that it was only when Labor came into office that Australia's performance deteriorated compared to the rest of the world, is simply untrue. He specifically mentioned inflation. The fact is that in 1972 the inflation rate of 5.8 per cent in Australia was higher than it was for the average of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries. The OECD rate was 4.7 per cent. We were significantly above the rate for comparable countries under the previous Liberal Government, in the period just before Labor came into office. 
I think it is important to reiterate the problems with which Labor had to contend once it obtained office. I mention 3 items which were of significance. Firstly, there was an enormous rate of increase in the money supply in the half year before we became the government. Yesterday, during question time, the Treasurer referred to the monetary time bomb which the Labor Government had left him. If he regards the rate of increase in the money supply of 20 per cent last year- which in the last half of last year was only 15 per cent- as a monetary time bomb, what would his description be of the rate of increase in the money supply in the last half of 1972 at an annual rate of 34 per cent which is more than double the rate which applied in the last half year under the Labor Government? If one was a monetary time bomb the other must have been a monetary nuclear time bomb at least. Clearly this was an enormous problem for the Labor Government to handle. We had a very severe rate of increase in the money supply. It was something which we immediately took action to chop off by means of the revaluation after we became the Government but it nevertheless posed some sort of a problem and I acknowledge that point. 
There was an enormous increase in export prices in 1973 and that increased the domestic price of exportable goods. The obvious example is beef prices, meat in general but beef in particular. They accounted for one-third of the inflation in this country in 1973. Of the 9 per cent inflation 3 per cent of it came from increased meat prices and this had nothing to do with the activities of the Government. This, of course, was part of the developing world inflation which reflected itself subsequently in an enormous increase in import prices. In 1974 the rate of increase in import prices in this country was absolutely staggering and I have never heard anyone in the Liberal Party or the National Country Party acknowledge that fact. 
I will illustrate just how staggering import prices were, and imports represent something in the order of 20 per cent of the total gross national expenditure in this country. If we look at the import price index published by the Reserve Bank we will see that there was a fantastic increase in import prices for all kinds of items, not just petroleum, in 1974. 1 will give examples. The index is published and based on 1966-1967- that year equals 100- and is broken up into various items which I will mention. For food, beverages and tobacco in the calendar year from December 1973 to December 1974 the increase in the import prices was 27.8 per cent. For inedible crude materials it was 51.8 per cent. For minerals, fuels and lubricants it was 302.9 per cent. For chemicals it was 64.8 per cent; for manufactured goods, classified chiefly by material, it was 45.8 per cent. For textiles it was 21.2 per cent. For machinery except electric machinery it was 35.2 per cent. For electric machinery, apparatus and appliances it was 36.7 per cent; for transport equipment it was 33.8 per cent and for miscellaneous manufactured articles it was 31.1 per cent. Those percentages represent the increase in import prices during the calendar year 1974. Is it any wonder that there was a substantial rate of inflation in Australia in that year? No government could possibly have maintained anything like a normal rate of inflation faced with that fantastic influx of inflationary goods on to the markets through imports. 
Taking the index as a whole, the all items index which includes petroleum went up by 63.7 per cent in that period. For technical reasons that is an inflated factor because since the base year our imports of petroleum have dropped back and therefore the weighting of the index is slightly inappropriate. But if we take all items excluding mineral fuels it was 38.9 per cent. If one took a figure somewhere in between those two he would get the likely figure for the increase in import prices in Australia of about 50 per cent in 1974. That is something which I have never heard acknowleged by anyone on the government side but clearly it was a matter of enormous importance in understanding why we had such inflation in 1 974 and subsequently. As a big trading nation we were terribly badly hit by the movement in world inflation. 
Having dealt with a few items to explain that the state of the economy was by no means entirely due to Labor's mismanagement I would like to refer to the supposition of the Treasurer that the principal economic variable to control at present is the money supply, or the rate of growth of the money supply. This attitude accounts for the Government's total preoccupation with the level of the deficit and the means of financing it. How the deficit grew has been explained by me previously, and by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  today. Very briefly, it was due not to extravagant government expenditure but to measures taken to offset levels of unemployment in 1974 and to the fact of the recession itself, meaning reduced revenues, and also to the much lower rate of wage increases in this financial year. This has resulted in Australia having a much higher level of deficit than we are used to. That is not something which is utterly unusual in other countries, either. All countries are experiencing much higher levels of deficit than they are used to. 
I refer to the  Australian Economic Review  for the third quarter of 1975. It contains an article entitled:  The Budget Deficit, Money Stock and Indexed Bonds.  Under the heading  Growing Budget Deficits- An International Problem-  it says: 
It is not often realised that a swollen Budget deficit is a phenomenon which Australia shares with most of the major industrial countries. Some of them are experiencing a more severe change from past levels than in this country . . . 
Later, it says: 
Thus in each of them, deficits of the broad magnitude currently envisaged for Australia are proving compatible with a reduction in the rate of inflation. 
Although the details differ from country to country, 3 basic cyclical factors have been the main reasons in each of these countries for the emergence of such massive deficits. These factors are a slackening in revenue because of the slump in activities, tax cuts or increases in government expenditure designed to stimulate economic expansion and higher supportive expenditures either in the form of unemployment benefits or of measures to support ailing business enterprises. 
This report quotes the German Bundesbank in this respect:  ... the Bundesbank defends the current very high deficits as being 'in any case necessary at the moment for reasons of  anticyclical  policy '. 
It flows from that that much higher Budget deficits than we are used to are something which again are not solely restricted to this country. They are happening in similar countries. But they are nevertheless able to bring about a reduction in the rate of inflation. Indeed, that is what was happening in this country. Whilst the Budget deficit was growing rapidly, we were in fact bringing about a reduction in the rate of inflation, largely due to the success of the indexation policy which has now been jeopardised by the actions of this Government. 
We do agree however that financing a deficit by tapping household savings is a reasonably sound policy. That is what the Government is doing with its Australian Savings Bonds. We think this scheme has some sense because Australian deficits have been financed by a relatively low proportion of loan money in the past and because household savings have grown enormously. In fact, this same article in the  Australian Economic Review  to which I referred previously contains a table which shows that household saving grew from 37.4 per cent of total savings in 1973-74 to 50.2 per cent of total savings in 1974-75. This is a very substantial increase, far above what we have been used to. This growth in the level of household saving as a proportion of total savings is something which again, is happening in most other countries. 
Having said that, I believe that it must be agreed surely that the Australian Savings Bonds series 1 was a mistake. The interest rate was certainly too high. The series lasted for  2lA  weeks only. It raised $565m in that time, plus some amount in the pipeline, we were told, at the time when it was cancelled. That 'some amount' was in fact $ 195m. This figure shows how the money was pouring in. What would have happened if that issue had gone beyond a month? There would have been a much greater flood of money, especially from those who have money on fixed deposits and who had to give a month's notice that they wanted to withdraw those funds before they could have access to them, to invest them in the Australian Savings Bonds. There would have been a tremendous outflow of funds from various institutions, and we would have had a real liquidity crisis on our hands. 
However, the fact that the Series 2 Bonds, at a lower rate of interest, are attracting funds steadily again shows that the rate of interest on the Series 1 issue was much higher than was necessary. Let me raise one query in this respect. I wonder whether we can really regard the money invested in Australian Savings Bonds as having been taken out of the money supply. If inflation continues to rise in a few months time, as is at least possible, that money could quickly be reclaimed. By the end of this year, that money will be reclaimable on one month's notice. 
If it is reclaimable on one month 's notice it can very quickly be used for expenditure in the same way as money taken out of a bank. So it seems to me that although for the time being that money is more or less locked in, by the end of this year those funds will be no more locked in than money in, say, fixed deposit in a bank for which one month's notice must be given for withdrawal. So I think it is at least doubtful whether this is a long term financing of the deficit in a way which will reduce the rate of increase in the money supply. Perhaps indexed bonds would be better in this case, because if the rate of inflation were to rise then people would not want to transfer their money from those bonds as they would be protected by the indexation factor. 
If a policy to reduce the rate of increase of the money supply is continued there must be an increase in interest rates. Every economics student in Australia knows that you cannot control both the money supply and the rate of interest; it is either one or the other. Either you have a tight control of the money supply- in this situation that would probably mean higher interest rates- or you control interest rates and let the money supply go. You cannot do both. What is happening here is that through the efforts of the Government to control the money supply already building society interest rates have gone up- not just in New South Wales as is being claimed but also some in Canberra and some in Victoria. 
Concentration on reducing the rate of increase of the money supply also dictates the need for expenditure cuts. Already we have had $360m worth which have meant the breaching of Budget promises to people such as Aborigines. If we are to have much greater expenditure cuts, as seems almost certain to happen under the present policy, there will be much more in the way of breaching of election promises to various groups in this community. The Mathews Committee report, if implemented, would cost $2,500m. A substantial move in that direction, say one-third, would cost $800m this year. If the Government is going to reduce the deficit as well, it would have to cut expenditure by $800m plus the amount by which it is going to reduce the deficit. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address a question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations regarding the downturn in the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd Employment Advertisement series for February, which downturn was the first for 5 months. As that decline in job advertisements confirms the February fall in registered job vacancies as published by his Department, can the Minister inform the House whether this deteriorating employment trend causes him any concern or whether it represents an objective of government economic policy at this stage? If the employment situation continues to decline, or if there is no marked improvement in the near future, can the Minister inform the House whether the Government will establish relief work projects, as promised in its employment and industrial relations policy, as a means of relieving unemployment, or is that another election promise that the Government does not intend to keep? 
-The statement which is the subject of this debate was the second announcement this year by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  of alterations to the work test which is applied by employment officers in his Department to determine whether or not an applicant for unemployment benefit is genuinely seeking work. It is clearly a matter which looms large in the minds of the Minister and indeed of the Government. It reflects the Government's preoccupation with the need to eradicate 'dole cheats', as the Minister called them in his Press statement of 1 6 January, or 'dole bludgers', as they have been referred to by the Press and various honourable members opposite. 
Let me make it clear at the outset that the Opposition does not support or encourage the process of people ripping off the Government by way of making false claims for unemployment benefit or claiming it whilst they are working or doing all in their power to avoid work of any kind while living off unemployment benefit. But having said that, I want to make it just as clear that we deplore and deprecate this Government's acceptance and encouragement of what we might term the 'dole bludger syndrome'. In opposition, and now in government, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have totally accepted the veracity of allegations of large scale attempts by unemployment benefit claimants to defraud the Government- allegations that have been screeched from the headlines of the Press generally, and the Murdoch Press in particular. There is surely no greater example of the need for an effective Press Council to impose ethics and standards of journalism on our newspapers than the reportage by our daily Press of this matter. For the fact is that despite the screaming headlines about dole cheats, the sensational stories about unemployment benefit receipients taking Gold Coast holidays or living in communes in luxurious houses with swimming pools, there is no evidence whatever to substantiate the express or implied allegations that such behaviour was widespread or indeed anything more than very exceptional. 
Indeed, what evidence there is about so-called dole cheats indicates that they are an extremely small proportion of the total number of persons receiving unemployment benefit. 
Before coming to that, however, I ask the House to note the way in which the dole bludger syndrome arose. Probably it has always existed in the minds of some people who regard the unemployed as shiftless layabouts who could get a job if they really tried, but certainly it received increased currency in 1973 after the Labor Government increased unemployment benefit to the luxurious level of equality with the age and invalid pensions. Previously under LiberalCountry Party Governments, the unemployed received $3 less than the age pension in the case of a single adult and $9.50 less than the age pension in the case of a married couple. In addition to raising unemployment benefit the Labor Government also liberalised the guidelines for interpretation of the work test in 1973, though the main traditional provision remained as before. The changes announced at that time related mainly to treating the unemployed with more compassion than had hitherto been the case. 
During 1973 and into 1974 the employment market tightened, vacancies became higher than the number of registered unemployed and labour shortages began to develop. Employers began to complain about labour shortages, and newspapers began to pick up their complaints. Accusations that the unemployed were to choosy and were now content to live on unemployment benefit became prevalent. Typical of the gathering hysteria was the comment by the 'Modest Member of Parliament' writing in the  Australian Financial Review  in August 1973, that as things were now, the ordinary citizen 'pays extra taxes as bludgers sit on their tails scratching themselves, being paid by mugs like me for doing nothing'. I accept his description of himself in that statement. 
The campaign of denigration continued and became an issue in the 1974 election, with the Opposition alleging the existence of vast numbers of dole cheats. All this was perhaps understandable in the circumstances of full employment that prevailed until mid- 1974, but that it should have continued as unemployment mushroomed in the latter part of that year and into 1975 is incredible. It therefore says much for the power of the Press that its build-up had been such that at the 1975 election one of the important issues of the campaign was the supposed existence of droves of so-called dole bludgers, despite the fact that there were at that time, 185 000 people on unemployment benefit but only 28 000 registered job vacancies. 
One of the most scurrilous episodes in this process of beating up stories on dole cheats was the treatment by the Press of a Department of Social Security survey released in September 1975, which showed that, in one area, of 14 462 unemployment benefit recipients who were investigated 30 per cent were found to be ineligible for benefits. This attracted Press headlines such as 'Dole Cheats' Cheques Stopped' and 'The Great Dole Rip-Off'. However, as the then Minister for Social Security,  Senator Wheeldon,  said in his Press statement when releasing this survey, the number of people found to be not entitled to the benefit did not mean that people were cheating. Most of these cases occurred because of administrative problems. Such factors accounted for 3753 of the 4451 people found to be ineligible. The remaining 878, who had their benefits lapse for other reasons, included an unspecified number who failed the work test. 
If it was assumed, quite unjustifiably, that all of those 878 had failed the work test, they would have represented 6. 1 per cent of the total survey. But, further to that, the records show that many of those who have their benefits removed following investigation by the Department of Social Security field officers win them back on appeal. Indeed, from February to September last year 7 1 per cent of appeals were upheld. So, if we apply that proportion to the 6 per cent we find that less that 2 per cent of those surveyed could be classified as work-shy. Furthermore, the then Minister made it clear that the area surveyed was one where a relatively high number of persons not entitled to benefit was expected to be found, so no conclusions about the national average could be drawn from that survey. The treatment of that survey by the Press, particularly the Murdoch Press, was utterly disgraceful. Mostly the Press ignored all the qualifications in  Senator Wheeldon  's Press release and completely misled the people as to what the survey showed. When the then Minister explained it fully in answer to a question in the Senate on 9 October last year, the Murdoch Press printed not one word of his answer. 
This brief outline of the development of the dole bludger syndrome describes a shameful episode in our history. To sell newspapers or to gain political advantage people in a position to influence members of the public have played on their fears that they as hard workers and substantial taxpayers were being sponged on by lazy ne 'er-do-wells or scheming cheats. The accusers never let themselves be dissuaded by the lack of proof of their allegations; nor did they pay any heed to the damage and suffering that their actions caused to the unemployed. The statement of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations represents a continuance of that policy. The statement is full of implied suggestions of wide scale rip-offs but no facts. On page 1 of the statement the Minister repeats the technique used in his January Press statement announcing the first tightening-up of the work test. He referred to 'the cost to the taxpayer' of unemployment benefit. Does the Government use that terminology in referring to the superphosphate bounty or the investment allowance? Of course it does not. Then, without explanatory comment the Minister raised a number of points that he said should be noted. The same points were contained in his January Press statement. In January he said that these points were not generally realised. I shall go over those points. In January he stated: 
In February 1972 about 30 per cent of unemployed registered with the CES received unemployment benefit and this had increased to 70 per cent in February 1 976. 
There seems to be an implication here that this increase should never have happened and that it proves that people were cheating. There is no mention in this context of the great increase in the level of unemployment over that period and the obvious fact that if there are no jobs the unemployed eventually will apply for unemployment benefit. So, a higher proportion will be on unemployment benefit when unemployment is high. The January Press statement also stated: 
About 70 per cent of male recipients at the latest analysis last year were unmarried. 
Here again the Minister seems to be implying that unmarried people cheat more than, married people do. The Press statement also stated: 
Some two-fifths were under 2 1 years. 
Again there is the implication that an unemployed single young person is even more inclined to be work-shy than is an unemployed single adult. The statement also stated: 
Three-quarters of them had been on benefit for more than one month. 
Again the implication seems to be that the longer the period of unemployment the more evidence there is that no effort is being made to obtain work. If these points are supposed to build a case for toughening the work test, they fail miserably to do so. There is no discussion of other factors, such as the growth of unemployment generally and the especially high level of unemployment amongst the young. In this regard it is relevant to note that the latest survey of unemployment by the Australian Bureau of Statistics shows that in 
February the rate of unemployment among persons aged IS years to 19 years was 13.3 percent, compared with 3.2 per cent for those aged 20 years and over and 4.5 per cent overall. It is no wonder that there is a high preponderance of young unmarried people receiving unemployment benefit The fact that there is such a high proportion proves nothing whatsoever about dole bludgers or the like. 
The Minister's statement refers to 112 000 beneficiaries being investigated by the Department of Social Security field officers between May 1975 and January 1976. As a result of these investigations 30 per cent of cases were terminated. The Minister added that there is no suggestion of deception or fraud in every case. This is a colossal deception. The Minister appears to be implying that many of those in the 30 per cent of 1 12 000-that is, 33 500 peoplewere cheating; but, in fact, very few people were prosecuted in the period mentioned. Between March and December last year the total number of prosecutions for fraudulent dole claims was only 97. In 1974-75 the total number of such prosecutions was only 67. The Minister's statement said that in cases where there was blatant misrepresentation a prosecution was considered and in many cases action was taken. Yet the total number of prosecutions in 10 months was less than 100. If we relate all these prosecutions to the 112 000 beneficiaries investigated between May 1975 and January 1976, they amount to less than 0.1 per cent. Surely, then, we are entitled to conclude that the number of people who attempt to defraud the government by falsely claiming unemployment benefit is exceedingly small. The problem is certainly nothing like as serious as the number of persons who are prosecuted each year for defrauding the government by evading income tax. But what publicity is given to that? In the year ended 30 June 1974, 32 800 persons were fined for understatement of income for income tax purposes. In total they understated their incomes by $35m and evaded tax of $ 15m. Surely this is evidence of a much greater problem of people ripping off the government than is to be found in the area of dole cheats. 
Part and parcel of the hysteria about dole cheats has been not only the development of community antagonism towards the unemployed but also the development of hostility towards the Labor Government. By the time of the last election many people must have had the impression that under Labor obtaining unemployment benefit was like taking candy from a baby. This, of course, was anything but the case; but it explains the need of the present Government to toughen up the work test. I ask the House to compare the guidelines used in administering the work test as set down under the Labor Government with those announced by the Minister in January. There is in fact very little difference. The guidelines announced by the Minister in January are remarkably similar to those contained in instructions regarding the unemployment and special benefits No. 2/F/3 issued in May 1974 by the Director-General of Social Security. I seek leave of the House to have those instructions incorporated in  Hansard. 
-The purpose of the Bills now before the House is to introduce a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. The Superannuation Bill 1976 is the principal Bill which introduces the new scheme. The Superannuation Amendment Bill introduces consequential amendments to the existing Superannuation Act, which it is intended to keep in force to the extent necessary to provide continuing authority for the payment of existing pensions. The Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Amendment Bill likewise seeks to amend the principal Act to take account of changes being effected by the Superannuation Bill 1976 and to ensure that arrangements already in existence continue in force. 
As honourable members are aware, this is not the first attempt by a government to introduce a new superannuation scheme. The previous Labor Government had recognised the inadequacy of the existing scheme, as indeed had the Liberal-Country Party Government before that. The existing superannuation scheme, which commenced in  1922,  had clearly become quite inadequate over the last few years as its contribution arrangements led to high levels of contributions in the latter part of the working lives of members, particularly in times of inflation. Proposals for a new scheme eventually reached legislative form last year when Bills for a new scheme were introduced in May. It is now history that those Bills were subject to substantial criticism by the then Opposition as being too generous and as being a pace-setter in the field, and they were blocked in the Senate. In fact, the scheme was not more generous than some of those applying to public servants working for some State governments, including non-Labor States. The scheme which is now before the House provides markedly lesser benefits than those proposed by the Labor Government last year, but it is not anywhere near as ungenerous as the scheme that the then Opposition would have had implemented at that time. 
In the debate on the superannuation Bills last year the then Opposition moved several amendments to reduce the benefits provided in the proposed scheme and implacably opposed as a matter of principle some of the proposed benefits. It is indeed gratifying to us to note that in government the Liberal and Country Parties have had second thoughts about some of those principles and have conceded their applicability, though not to the same extent as was proposed in the  1975  Bills. One such matter of principle is that of the right to retire at age  60.  The  1 975  Bills provided for retirement at age  60  with a government financed pension of  50  per cent of the final salary. The then Opposition expressed total opposition to this concept as it would, it said, set a trend towards age  60  retirement when no such trend currently existed. Instead the then Opposition proposed that pensions not become payable before age  65  and that those members of the existing scheme who were contributing at a higher rate in order to retire on full benefit at age  60  would have the option of staying in the current scheme or switching to the new scheme on an age  65  basis and taking a cash refund of the excess contributions already paid. 
In the Bills now before the House those proposals have been scrapped and the right to retire at age  60  has been acknowledged. However, as distinct from the  1975  legislation, the full benefit of a government financed pension equal to  50  per cent of the final salary will not be available at age  60.  Instead the government financed pension for retirement at that age will be a basic  45  per cent. In addition to that  45  per cent certain supplementary pensions may be payable as part of the government financed pension. There is also to be an additional pension to a maximum of  20  per cent of final salary which is financed by the employee 's own contributions. 
The decision of the Government to acknowledge the right to benefit at age  60  but at less than the full rate does pose difficulties for members of the current scheme who intended to retire at age  60  but who now find that they can do so only on a pension that is less than the  50  per cent government financed pension they had been counting on. This was not a difficulty in the  1975  scheme because full benefits were available at age  60.  Admittedly it is proposed in the Bill to give credit to contributors who have contributed to the existing scheme on the basis of retirement at age  60  by the use of a complex formula with which one calculates what supplementary pension is due to an age  60  contributor if he or she retires at age  60  or at any time before age  65.  The net effect of the formula is that only if a contributor has paid up all his age  60  contributions or has reached age  59V4  by the time the scheme comes into force whilst still contributing for age  60  units will he or she be able to receive on retirement at age  60  the full benefit that he or she expected to get under the existing scheme. 
All those age  60  contributors who do not meet these exacting conditions will receive a supplement under this scheme which is less than would give them the full benefit. Furthermore, it is very important to note that the supplementary pension is worked out as a money amount as of  30  June  1976  and is credited to the contributor as a money amount. Thus if his supplement is calculated at, say  $300  per annum as of  30  June  1976  it remains credited to him at that amount until he turns  60.  This may not matter too much if he reaches age  60  within a few years, although if a contributor had  3  years to go to age  60  and inflation continued at  10  per cent for that time there would clearly be a very real reduction in the value of this supplementary pension. If the employee had, say, another  20  years to go before he reached age  60  the real value of the supplementary pension provided by the formula would be a mere fraction of its value at mid- 1976, even if inflation continued at rates well below the current level. Therefore the net effect of this move to provide for a reduced pension at age 60 will clearly result in a reduction of the benefit available under this scheme as compared with the present scheme. 
The extent of that reduction can be ascertained from Appendix B of the explanatory memorandum distributed with the Bills. It shows the capital value of benefits under the present scheme for current contributors as $9,302m on the Melville-Pollard assumptions. The effect of the adjustment of the present retiring age provision to those proposed in the Bills is shown to reduce that capital value by $504m. The effect of this provision, therefore, will be to reduce the benefits available to current contributors by 5.4 per cent. Of course, an offsetting factor to this is that age 60 contributors will not in future be paying the level of contribution they would otherwise have been paying if the current scheme had continued. But that does not alter the fact that many age 60 contributors feel that the recognition awarded to their past contributions will be virtually meaningless by the time they come to collect it and that accordingly the pension they will receive at age 60 will be well below what they had counted on. 
Before leaving this matter of age sixty contributors, I would add that as a result of what the Government is doing to those people it is highly likely that many of them will now feel compelled to stay on in the Service till age sixty-five. That probably does not please most of them, nor does it seem to accord with government policy of reducing the numbers of government employees. If that is what the Government wants to achieve, its treatment of age sixty contributors seems curiously in contrast to that objective. 
Another feature of the 1975 Bill which was strongly opposed by the Opposition in debate on the Bill was the proposal for an additional pension supplement to be paid to those who had contributory service of more than 30 years. The rate of such additional pension was to be onehalf of one per cent of final salary for each year of contributory service over 30 years, with a maximum of 5 per cent at 40 years contributory service. The Liberal and National Country parties said then that such a proposal would be pacesetting for the private sector, and they opposed the whole concept of supplementary pension for long service. Now in this Bill they have accepted the concept, although the rate of the additional pension proposed is one-quarter of one per cent per annum instead of the one-half of one per cent contained in our Bill. 
A further proposal of the 1975 Bill which was completely opposed by the Liberal and National Country parties was that the pension of a dependent spouse, where the contributor died, should be increased from 62.5 per cent of the contributor's pension, as contained in the current scheme, to 67 per cent. The then Opposition said that such a provision was over-generous, having regard to benefits in the private sector, and it opposed any increase in the rate. I am pleased to say that the Government has now seen the error of its ways and the Bill now before the House provides for a rate of 67 per cent. Indeed, to give credit where it is due, it has gone beyond what was contained in our Bill by further providing that the pension of a dependent spouse continues after remarriage. In the current scheme such pension ceases on remarriage. That condition was continued in the 1975 Bill. Now, however, the conditions of payment of a dependent spouse's pension are to be decidedly improved. As most dependent spouses are widows rather than widowers, this is decidedly an improvement in the rights of women. Indeed, it could almost be said to be pacesetting. 
There are therefore three quite important provisions of the 1975 Bill which were strongly objected to by the then Opposition not just as to amount but also on principle, but which now in government it has decided to accept in principle, although in less generous terms in the case of two of them and more generous terms in the case of the other. It is indeed gratifying to the Opposition to note that when the Liberal and National Country parties had the responsibility of drawing up a Bill and not just criticising our Bill they were able to see the logic of our proposition and they have acknowledged the principles involved. 
There was, however, a further provision in our Bill which was strongly opposed by the Liberal and National Country parties as a matter of principle and in relation to which their stand has not changed. I refer to the adjustment of the pension. Our Bill provided for the whole pension- that is both the government-financed part and that part financed by the contributor- to be adjusted annually in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. That was the intention of the present scheme also, although the actual adjustment is 1.4 times the percentage increase in the consumer price index or one times the percentage increase in average weekly earnings, whichever is the lesser; and that is applied to the government-financed portion only. As the government-financed portion of the pension in the current scheme is five-sevenths of the total pension, the application of 1.4 times the movement in the consumer price index to that fivesevenths gave an adjustment to the total pension of one times the consumer price index. The arithmetic is five-sevenths, multiplied by fourteen.tenths, which equals one. That at least was the theory, but over time, the government-financed portion being automatically adjusted whereas the other part was not, it would steadily become a larger proportion than five-sevenths of the pension, at which level it would start out at on retirement, so that adjustment of 1.4 times would give an increase to the total pension which was greater than one times the consumer price index movement. 
Last year the Liberal and National Country parties opposed the application of the consumer price index adjustment to the full pension, again on the basis that to give a totally inflation-proof pension equal to 70 per cent of final salary would be far more than the private sector could afford and that such pacesetting provisions should not be included. All of this entirely ignored the fact that the current scheme effectively gave inflationproofing to the whole pension. Not to grant it in the new scheme meant that a very substantial benefit of the existing scheme would be taken away. The attitude of the Liberal and National Parties was even more curious in that when the 1.4 times consumer price index adjustment had been introduced in 1973 on the recommendation of Professor Pollard, they supported it and, indeed, seemed to want to take credit for it because they had established the Pollard inquiry in the first place. 
Their attitude to the proposal in the 1975 Bill to provide full consumer price index adjustment to the whole pension seemed therefore to be rather inconsistent. Unfortunately they have seen fit to maintain their 1975 attitude in drawing up this Bill. The consequence is that the scheme now before the House deprives current and future contributors of a very substantial benefit. Just how substantial is that benefit is demonstrated again by Appendix B.of the explanatory memorandum which shows that the change in the form of the adjustment mechanism will of itself reduce the capital value of benefits available under the present scheme by $ 1,683m or 18 per cent. Clearly that is a very important factor and one which greatly reduces the attractiveness of the proposed scheme. Quite obviously the effect of not providing consumer price' index adjustment for the contributor financed pension will be greatly to encourage employees to take the option, which is not currently available, of commuting that part of their pension which is financed by their own contributions into a lump sum. Provision of the right to commute pan of the pension is probably a good thing in that it gives freedom of choice to the individual to arrange his life on retirement in a way which is most suitable to him. 
However, by not providing the option of an indexed pension instead of the lump sum, the scheme will encourage people who would prefer to have the income nevertheless to take the lump sum and invest it elsewhere in the hope that they can so invest it as to keep up with inflation. Obviously some will do that better than others; some may make quite unwise investments, particularly if inflation is high and they are seeking a substantial return on their money. If, however, the scheme provided for indexation of the contributor financed pension, people who wanted income and wanted protection from inflation would readily ignore the right to commutation and take the full pension. If inflation continues at levels anything like the current ones, it is difficult to imagine that many contributors would be at all interested in the non-adjustment pension which is financed by their own contributions under this scheme. 
In making these comments I am aware that the Melville-Pollard report on the original proposals for a new scheme, as put forward by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  when he was Treasurer in 1973, recommended that the consumer price index adjustment not apply to that part of the pension which is contributor financed. We do not agree with that recommendation, as of course was made clear from the 1975 Bill. Indeed, it is relevant to note that none of the various State governments agrees with it. The fact is that every State government provides a superannuation scheme for its employees which includes full adjustment of the total pension for movements in the consumer price index. When this new scheme is introduced Australian government employees will be the only government employees in this country who are not entitled to full indexation-proofing of their whole pension entitlement. That brings me to consider in more detail the superannuation schemes applying to various State government employees. I seek leave of the House at this stage to incorporate in  Hansard  a document which compares benefits under the various government superannuation schemes. 

<graphic href="098131197604016_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The document shows, firstly, the retirement age in the various States; every State provides for retirement at age sixty. I just note inpassing that last year the Liberal and National Country parties wanted to disallow any pension entitlement at that age to Australian government employees. The document then shows the maximum benefits available for government employees on final salary of, firstly, a low $6,500 and, secondly, a medium income of $ 1 3,000. 
It can be seen that at $6,500 the age 60 entitlement under the proposed Government scheme is less than that in New South Wales and only fractionally above those in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. Even the lowest entitlement- that in Queensland- is only 6 per cent below the Commonwealth figure. On a final salary of $13,000 the Commonwealth maximum entitlement for age 60 retirement of 67.25 per cent is the best of all, looking at it at the point of retirement, although again it is only very marginally above those in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania, which are all 66.6 per cent, and that in New South Wales, which is 64.9 per cent. 
At age 65 the picture is rather different. At a final salary of $6,500 the Commonwealth maximum entitlement of 72.5 per cent is below that in New South Wales, where the entitlement is 97.2 per cent of final salary; that in Queensland, where it is 75 per cent; and that in South Australia, where it is 73.3 per cent. The Victorian figure is fractionally below, at 70 per cent. On a final salary of $13,000 the picture is similar, with the New South Wales percentage being reduced to 80.4 per cent but still being well above the Commonwealth figure of 72.5 per cent, whilst the Queensland and South Australian figures are also higher than the Commonwealth figure. The Victorian figure is slightly below and the Tasmania and Western Australian figures are notably below. 
On this basis of comparison it could be said that the benefits of the Australian Government scheme are pitched at roughly the average of the State schemes. However, it should be noted that, as shown in the table, for those schemes with a contribution scale based on a percentage of salary- which is all of them, except those in New South Wales and Western Australia- the contribution rate needed to obtain maximum benefits is highest in the Commonwealth's proposed scheme. Thus, to obtain average State benefits at the point of retirement Commonwealth employees will have to pay above State average contributions, and that is not an unimportant point. Perhaps I should mention that the maximum contribution rate under the Commonwealth scheme is 10 per cent, in Victoria it is 9 per cent, in Queensland 6.5 per cent, in South Australia 6 per cent and in Tasmania 5.5 per cent. 
Furthermore, as the table shows and as I have mentioned already, every State provides adjustment of the total available pension according to the consumer price index, but the Commonwealth will apply it only to the Government financed pension- that is, five-sevenths of the pension on retirement. In inflationary times this is a very substantial deficiency in the scheme. To demonstrate the extent of that deficiency I have had some calculations made which analyse the comparative movements in pensions under the proposed Commonwealth scheme and the various State schemes for a pensioner on a final salary of $ 1 3,000.I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the effect of inflation over a 10-year period on maximum pension payable to Federal and State Public Service pensioners with a final salary of $ 13,000. 

<graphic href="098131197604016_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. I will not go into the figures in the table; I merely point out that the table shows the effect on the pension of adjustments for inflation over a 10-year period, assuming rates of inflation of 5 per cent, 10 per cent and 15 per cent. In New South Wales, at the point of retirement, the pension for a person on a final salary of $13,000 would be 16.4 per cent above the Commonwealth pension for a pensioner with maximum entitlement. After 10 years and only 5 per cent inflation the New South Wales pension would be 30.2 per cent above the Commonwealth pension. This is explained because the Commonwealth pension is not getting full adjustment according to the consumer price index, whereas the New South Wales one is. Thus, even with a comparatively low rate of inflation the disparity between the 2 benefits is widened considerably. After 10 years of inflation occurring at a rate of 10 per cent the difference between the 2 pensions would be 40 per cent the New South Wales one being the higher, and after 10 years of inflation at 15 per cent the New South Wales pension would be 46.8 per cent higher. With more time and higher rates of inflation, those figures get higher and higher. A similar picture appears when one compares the Commonwealth pension with those of any of the States. They all improve markedly relative to the Commonwealth employee's pension. Clearly, a major deficiency in this Bill is that it does not provide inflation adjustment to the total pension when that protection is granted to the employees of all State governments and currently is provided to Commonwealth employees in the existing superannuation scheme. 
The Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said in his second reading speech that taken overall the new scheme provided an increase of 1 per cent in the capital value of benefits. This is true; but it hides the fact that the capital value of benefits for existing pensioners and contributors is reduced by 6. 1 per cent and 7.8 per cent respectively. The marginal overall increase comes only through the inclusion in the scheme of Provident Account contributors. Their inclusion is a highly commendable aspect of the scheme, as it was also of the scheme proposed last year by the Labor Government; but their inclusion should not be used to obscure the fact that this scheme reduces the capital value of benefits to existing pensioners and contributors. 
In summary, the attitude of the Opposition is that the Bills do not provide the most appropriate form of superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. In most respects the proposed scheme is inferior to that proposed by the Labor Government last year and compares quite unfavourably with State government superannuation schemes. The Opposition does not intend to move amendments to the Bills in the Committee stages, as we have made our position quite clear in the scheme we introduced last year and we are conscious of the desire of the Government and of government employees to have this legislation passed without delay so that the new scheme can be brought into operation smoothly by 1 July. However, we do intend to move an amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time'. I formally move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'while not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill is deficient in that it removes some important benefits now applying under the current Superannuation Act, thereby reducing the overall value of benefits for existing pensioners and contributors'. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns the first ever meeting of Ministers for Labour in the various Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development countries which was held in Paris on 4 and 5 March to discuss the serious unemployment situation in member countries. I ask the Minister. Although he did not attend the meeting, has he seen the communique issued by the Ministers after their discussions in which they called for a strengthening of income maintenance schemes to assist the unemployed and declared that a substantial recovery of employment levels will depend not only on a recovery in demand but also on selective employment policies such as job creation programs, community employment projects, increased expenditure on public works and strengthening of manpower training schemes? Will the Minister inform the House why the Australian Government is taking a directly contrary line to that recommended by the Ministers for Labour in comparable countries through its actions in making it more difficult for the unemployed to obtain unemployment benefits, its refusal to countenance job creation programs - 
-My question to the Prime Minister concerns recent statements by him imploring people to spend more. Can he explain to the House how he reconciles his policy of" increasing the rate of consumption with his Government's action in seeking to reduce the purchasing power of wages by halving wage indexation? Likewise can he explain why the Government is currently encouraging people to save more and thereby to consume less by its introduction of the home savings grant scheme? 
-The weakness of the Government's case in this issue is shown by the fact that consecutive Government speakers have refused to face the issue. Nothing that has come from the Government alters the fact that its proposed new financial arrangements with the States must lead to a greatly increased burden on the States and consequently to the imposition by the States of the additional income tax surcharges- double income taxallowed for in the proposal and/or additional indirect taxes. The agreement made at the Premiers Conference on 9 April is not final, and I think that is an important point. The Commonwealth hopes to achieve that final agreement at the June Premiers Conference, but it will not achieve it if the States wake up to what is involved, and I think the States are starting to wake up- even  Sir Eric  Willis, who is no relation, by the way. I ask the House to look at the proposal. Firstly, the States are to receive by way of financial assistance grants the same percentage of personal income tax as they received in 1975-76, that is, 35 per cent. The States originally expressed themselves to be pleased with that arrangement because, on their calculations, it gave them approximately $3 50m more than would have applied under the current formula.  Sir Eric  Willis said that it would enable him to cut indirect taxes, but I think he has now retreated from that somewhat. He now says that he will not increase taxes. 
The Federal Government is proposing to introduce tax indexation, and I think that is an extremely important point to consider. In the next financial year tax indexation is to apply, at least in part, so we are told continuously by the Government, and so the growth of personal income tax revenue is to be reduced. Certainly it will go up if there is only partial indexation, but the growth will not be anything like as rapid as it would have been without tax indexation. Under the current formula, the financial assistance grants to the States would have been improved by 3 factors: Firstly, the betterment factor of 3 per cent; secondly, a population factor of 1 per cent; and thirdly, an allowance for average weekly earnings which would be 12 per cent or 13 per cent. So under the current formula the grants would have gone up by 16 per cent or 17 per cent. Without indexation, income tax revenues would increase next year by appreciably more than that, but with full indexation there would probably be no improvement over what was provided under the old formula. Indeed, the grant could be less, except, that a provision in the 9 April agreement is that for 3 years and no more the amounts the States will receive will not be less than would have been provided for in that year by the current formula. So if tax indexation is introduced this year to the extent of one-third, as has been indicated by the Government, the States will still be better off in their financial assistance grants, although not by $350m but by about two-thirds of that amount. 
A specific section of the 9 April agreement between the States and the Commonwealth is that there will be no sharing with the States of any Commonwealth tax surcharges. At page 2 of the Prime Minister's Press statement he said: 
The yield or costs of special surcharges or rebates applied, in appropriate circumstances, by the Commonwealth will not be included in the base figure from which the States' entitlements will be calculated. 
So the Commonwealth could use this agreement as a means to increase income tax without having to share with the States. It could simply say: 'This year there is a 5 per cent surcharge', and the States could not get any of the 5 per cent. The States could be well and truly 'had' by that clause, and I do not know whether they have realised it yet. Furthermore, the guaranteed 35 per cent of personal income tax revenues, less any Commonwealth surcharge, represents only 37 per cent of total Commonwealth payments to the States, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said, and the rest is comprised of specific purpose payments and general purpose capital funds. The States have received no assurances whatever about the level at which specific purpose payments and general purpose capital funds will continue. All they have is one-third of the package. That is all they have been given so far- one-third of the package. At page 7 of the Prime Minister's Press statement of 9 April he said: 
The single most important issue outstanding is the question of which specific purpose payments to the States are to be absorbed into the general revenue arrangements. A good deal of consideration will need to be given to this matter and a working group of officers will be examining the whole range with a view to decisions being made during the course of the next financial year. 
The Prime Minister intends that the States will reach agreement with the Commonwealth Government in June of this year, but he intends also that there will not be final agreement about the absorption of specific purpose payments into the base grant until after that date. So the States are being asked to accept something absolutely blindly, to pick up one-third of the package without knowing what is going to happen to the other two-thirds. That is definitely buying a pig in a poke. Furthermore, the proposal goes against the policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties as set out last year in their Federalism Policy statement. At page 4 of that policy, referring to a transition to flexibility, it is stated: 
Stage 1: A calculation will be made of the percentage which in the previous year general revenue grants to the States bore to total personal income tax collections in that year. That percentage will be used to ascertain the share of personal income tax to the States in Year 1 - 
I ask that particular attention be paid to this -  and will also take into account the transfer of such section 96 grants as should be absorbed into this base figure. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties stated there quite specifically that the section 96 grants should be taken into account at the time of working out the base grant, but that is not what is proposed now. What is proposed now is that the base grant will be worked out, by June at the latest, and that the States will not know what specific purpose payments are being absorbed into that base grant until some time in the next financial year. So the States would be going in absolutely blind. Clearly, the States are being asked to adopt arrangements not knowing what section 96 grants are going to be absorbed in the base figure. That is extremely serious because there is a great likelihood that the Government will seek to wipe out or drastically reduce many programs that it finances currently in this way, and if the States want them to continue as before they will have to pay for them. 
Could I summarise very briefly the enormous bind in which the Government finds itself at the moment, very largely through its own policies. Firstly, it found out in January- and called on all the departments to produce their forward expenditure estimates- that there was a projected deficit of $5,000m. Expenditure cuts were then made which will have an ongoing effect next financial year of about $300m, which reduces the deficit to $4,700m. If tax indexation of one-third is introduced, that will cost $400 m, and if inflation accounting for companies to the extent of one-third is introduced that will cost $500m. So there is another $900m, and the Government has already increased other expenditure items such as the investment allowance, payments to the States, the superphosphate bounty, etc, to the tune of almost $ 1 ,000m. 
If the Government introduces tax indexation by one third that will chop back the additional payment to the States but there still will be something like $890m additional expenditure which the Government has brought in this financial year. Therefore the Government faces a deficit on those figures of $6,490m. Clearly, if those figures are anything like accurate, and I suggest they certainly are accurate, the Government has to do either of two things, or perhaps both. It has to make substantial increases in revenues by levies or increases in taxation of some sort or another and also has to slash expediture. 
Quite clearly I would say that it is going to do both things. If it tries, for instance, to introduce Medibank levies, radio and television licences and so on it probably could raise $ 1,000m and reduce the deficit to $ 5 1/2 billion but it still will have to make enormous cuts in government expenditure which would affect specific purpose grants to the States and the capital purpose payments to the States as well. Therefore the States would be in the situation where the two-thirds of the payments from the Commonwealth would have to be hacked around enormously by this Government in an effort to get the deficit down. Of course it may be that the Government will find that it cannot cut government expenditure very much and that it will have to put up with an enormous deficit but from the way the Government keeps talking it apparently intends to cut government expenditure very substantially. 
Of course, the Bland Committee has been operating now for a couple of months and looking at specific expenditure areas which can be handed back to the States, and the States then will have to make up their minds about whether they will continue funding them. If they are going to continue funding them they will have to pay for them and if they are going to pay for them they Will have to increase taxes. They either will have to increase indirect taxes or increase the additional income tax- apply a double income tax which is allowed for under the new federalism proposals. Either way there are going to be very substantial increases in State taxes, either through income tax or indirect taxes, if this Government has its way. The result will be that the people of Australia will be paying not less tax but tax in a different form. They will be paying less tax to the Federal Government and a lot more tax to the State governments. 
I suggest that States which have their own interests in mind realise that there is not yet final agreement on this matter. There is to be a Premiers Conference in June at which the Premiers can decide to reject this new form of federalism or this federal funding arrangement. I suggest that the people of New South Wales would be well advised to elect a Premier who would oppose this new kind of federalism and who has made it quite clear that he has no intention of applying a double income tax. If they leave  Sir Eric  Willis as Premier they do so knowing that he has made it quite clear that he will go along with the new arrangements and will apply double income tax. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial relations, upon notice: 
How many persons are currently training under the NEAT system on (a) a full-time basis and (b) a pan-time basis. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons have sought assistance under the NEAT system for (a) full-time training and (b) part-time training since 1 1 February 1976. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Is it a fact that if the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission were to award only partial wage indexation, as sought by the Government, then even if full tax indexation were to be introduced this year the real level of after-tax wages would decline? Is it also a fact that the decline in real after-tax wages would be even greater if a Medibank levy were imposed? If so, can he inform the House whether he seriously expects that the trade union movement will cooperate in such a policy? 
-The Bills now before the House are relatively minor in themselves and are not opposed by the Opposition. However, they do open up for debate an extremely important and difficult subject, that is, the form of governmental control, if any, that should prevail in the stevedoring industry. The substance of the Bills is principally to extend the current legislation for a further 6 months. The Government has been obliged to take this action because it has not yet decided exactly what permanent arrangements should be provided for the organisation of the industry. The Opposition does not seek to make anything of this delay because it realises full well the difficulties involved. Indeed, successive governments since the 1967 legislation was enacted have found that they have been unable to reach a firm decision and have been obliged to extend the legislation. The consequence is that arrangements which were originally intended to last for a 2 '/4-year trial period from 1967 have now been extended several times and are still in operation 9 years later. 
During the 3-year period in which the Labor Government was in office two important inquiries were launched into the stevedoring industry and they provide ample material regarding the views of the various organisations engaged in the industry. The first of those inquiries- by  Mr Norm  Foster, a special adviser to the then Minister for Labor- was launched in mid- 1973 and he reported a year later.  His  report, which was entitled 'Some Aspects of the Stevedoring Industry in Australia', extensively reviewed the opinions of the operative stevedoring companies and concluded that the only rational policy for permanent arrangements for the industry would be for the Government to sponsor a company or corporation which would have the sole right to undertake stevedoring operations with respect to overseas trade. 
Subsequently- in October 1975- the then Minister for Labor and Immigration requested the  Chairman  of the Stevedoring Industry Council,  Mr R.  Northrop, Q.C., as he was then, to review the attitudes of groups having an interest in the industry. He reported back to the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in February of this year and outlined two options that seemed to him to be available- one being roughly that advocated by  Mr Foster  and the other being for the Government to withdraw from the industry and treat it as any other industry.  Mr Northrop  did not recommend one choice as against the other, though he did make it clear that continuance of the present arrangements was not desirable. One reason why he dismissed that option was that nobody interested in the industry wanted it. The National Industrial Council, which represents the two employer groups involved, that is, the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour and the Terminal and Depot Employers Federation, submitted that the industry should be free of governmental control, as did the Waterside Workers Federation. Thus the two key organisations involved in the industry- the employers and the unions- recommended that the industry be freed of government involvement. 
On the other hand, some employers not in the National Industrial Council- for instance, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the British Phosphate Commission- recommended greater government involvement in the form of the establishment of a statutory stevedoring corporation to employ waterside workers and regulate the industry. One employer which was a member of the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour- F. G. Strang Pty Ltd- also supported the notion of the establishment of such a statutory authority, as did the Australian Shippers Council, which represents various overseas trading companies and statutory bodies, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, which currently performs various regulatory functions in the industry, the Fremantle Port Authority, the State Shipping Service of Western Australia, the Association of Australian Port and Marine Authorities, the Wharf Superintendents Association of Victoria and the Australian Foremen Stevedores Association. 
The Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council was not too sure what it wanted. First it supported the withdrawal of the Government from the industry. Then, after  Mr Northrop  made his report, it changed its mind and supported the concept of the establishment of a statutory authority to employ waterside workers. Thus, apart from the principal employer organisation and the principal union involved in the industry, all other interested bodies advocate greater government involvement. No one wants a continuance of the status quo for the reason that it has proved to be increasingly unsatisfactory for all concerned. From the view point of those organisations that sought greater government involvement the current arrangements are unsatisfactory principally because they regard them as having resulted in greatly increased freight costs. That, they allege, is partly due to the much improved wages and other conditions of employment for waterside workers since the conference scheme was introduced and partly due to the inefficiencies that have been built into the scheme while it has been in operation. 
The two principal inefficiencies that have arisen are those relating to what is known as locked-in idle time and idle time generally. Locked-in idle time arises through the process of employees of one operational stevedoring company at a port being idle whilst other stevedoring companies are fully employed and clamouring for more labour. Despite the existence in permanent ports of a pool of labour which is available to be farmed out to those companies which need more workers, the situation often arises that the labour demand by some companies is such that the pool is empty but they are still short of labour and at the same time some of the employees of a company which has slack demand are idle. Whilst on idle time waterside workers receive $31.44 a day. So when locked-in labour becomes more than an occasional matter it represents a serious addition to the costs of operation. 
Those who support the establishment of a statutory corporation to employ waterside workers say that such a body would enable the elimination of this inefficient process by having all waterside workers in a pool and allocating them to the various operating stevedoring companies as they are needed. On the other hand the employers, as represented by the National Industrial Council and the Waterside Workers Federation, believe that this problem can be overcome by agreement between them. For instance, the employers have suggested that agreement could be reached to transfer work between employers by the transfer of gangs. 
The Waterside Workers Federation has not put forward a proposal publicly but is aware of the problem and the effect it has on costs. However, the Waterside Workers Federation is adamant that one alternative it will not accept is a return to the pool system because that is what had operated up till 1967 and that is what they and the employers were anxious to get away from. An important aim of the conference scheme was to achieve a normal industrial relationship with employees being associated with a specific employer. It was also hoped that this arrangement would bring about better industrial relations through the development of some sense of identification of workers with a particular company, though whether this has occurred to any degree is a moot point. Some indications that it may have some effect is the fact that the National Industrial Council supports the  concept  of the elimination of all pool labour and the employment of all waterside workers by a particular employer. 
The other means by which idle time has become a great problem for the industry is the overall excess number of waterside workers. Despite massive reductions in their numbers since the mid-1950s, the introduction of containers, roll-on roll-off facilities and other mechanised loading processes combined with the current economic recession have had such an effect on work availability that there is still a surplus of waterside workers. The House may be interested to note that the number of registered waterside workers in this country has declined since the mid-1950s from 27 000 to a little more than 12 000. This remarkable reduction, with their numbers being more than halved in a couple of decades, has inevitably had to be obtained at a price, and that price has been a substantial improvement in wages and conditions and attractive redundancy payments. The alternative would have undoubtedly been at the cost of massive industrial disruption as occurred in a number of countries such as the United Kingdom and the United States of America when containers were introduced. Nevertheless, despite this massive reduction there is still an excess of labour and consequently idle time payments have become a substantial burden on the industry. In 1974-75 idle time payments rose from $3.6m to $8.4m but this was not due to increased union featherbedding. Rather it reflected the recruitment of additional waterside workers in 1 974 because of the greatly increased trade at that time, and the subsequent world economic slump that substantially reduced work in this industry. Clearly an improvement in our economy and in the world economy would greatly assist in overcoming this postion, but a redundancy problem may still exist. 
Most of the organisations that sought a statutory corporation also sought restoration of the rights of employers of compulsory redundancy, but that is totally opposed by the Waterside Workers Federation and is not proposed by the National Industrial Council which instead put forward a proposal for early retirement. In this connection it is relevant to note that the average age level of waterside workers is well above that for the work force generally.  Mr Foster  noted that two-thirds were between the ages of 40 and 60 years. This means that many workers will leave the industry by normal retirement in the near future.  Mr Foster  estimated that 25 per cent of the waterside work force would retire over the next 10 years. In these circumstances it may well be that the redundancy problem will be overcome in the near future through the normal process of attrition. 
Apart from this important matter of idle time, the present arrangements have a number of other deficiencies that all interested parties consider must be rectified. For instance, the levy imposed on man hours worked for purposes of meeting long service leave, pension and idle time payments, has caused dissatisfaction because,eing based on man hours, when demand for labour falls the revenue obtained from the levy declines, at the very time that more workers go on to idle time. Furthermore, it is generally considered that by being based on man hours rather than tonnage it unfairly penalises the conventional stevedoring companies as against the container terminal operators. General dissatisfaction exists in the industry also at the delays that have occurred in increasing charges through the process of having to go through this Parliament if the maximum rate allowed under the Act is being approached. 
All that I have said to this stage makes it clear that change is needed in the existing arrangements for control of this industry. The available options as outlined by  Mr Northrop  are completely divergent and I have shown on what basis these divergent views have been established. In opting for the withdrawal of the Government from a direct role in the industry this Government is taking a very substantial step. On the basis of the submission made to  Mr Northrop  it will not please the many interested groups which sought an increased government role, but perhaps this depends on the ability of the employers and the unions to reach satisfactory solutions to the major industry problems mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech. I note in passing that in enumerating these problems the Minister gave prime emphasis to reducing the work force. In view of my earlier comments on this matter it may be that he has somewhat overestimated the importance of this issue. If the parties can reach satisfactory agreement on means to overcome the industry's major problems then this would certainly remove much of the argument for the need to have a statutory corporation playing a dominant role in the industry. There is no doubt that this was the path that the parties entered upon in drawing up the conference scheme and it is a logical development now to take the next step provided satisfactory agreement can be reached. 
It is worth noting here that much of the impetus for the conference scheme came from dissatisfaction of the parties directly involved in the industry with the role of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The Waterside Workers Federation in particular saw it as an additional hindrance to its aim of improving the welfare of its members and were, indeed still are, particularly resentful at the role the ASAI played in inflicting penalties on wharfies that were harsher than any that applied to other workers throughout the nation under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
However, the role of the statutory authority in this industry need not necessarily be so unsuccessful. In New Zealand, for instance, the Waterfront Industry Commission is apparently accepted and approved by the parties and indeed is currently in the process of having its powers considerably widened. Indeed, it is being made the sole employer of waterside labour and will allocate labour to the various stevedoring companies operating on the wharves. In other words, the New Zealand Government is taking the option that the Australian Government has now rejected. 
There is one other matter which could still be of concern to those interested parties who called for a statutory authority in this country even if the employers and the unions can reach satisfactory agreements on means by which to overcome the industry's problems. This other matter is the fear that costs will continue to escalate through the process of employers acceding to union demands and passing the costs on to shipping companies which in turn pass them on to their customers via higher freight rates. The Opposition is intrigued that the Government has sought to placate such fears by reference to the role of the Prices Justification Tribunal in reviewing applications for charge increases by large stevedoring companies. This reliance on the Tribunal comes strangely from a government which, when it first took office, was avowing its intention to abolish the Tribunal. Indeed, so far as I am aware the Government has to this stage only deferred a decision on the eventual fate of the Tribunal. Perhaps the Minister would inform the House whether this reliance on it in this instance is indicative of a government intention to keep the Tribunal permanently. 
Finally, I wish to refer to the position of the employees of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The Authority's role in the industry has been gradually reduced with the introduction of permanency and accordingly the fear of redundancy has been growing among the Authority's staff for almost a decade now. If the Government plans to proceed as announced then the Authority will be wound up at the end of this year and some 220 employees will be redundant. As only a handful of the staff are permanent public servants there is great anxiety in their ranks about their future. The Minister referred to this matter in his second reading speech but he did not give the staff great solace. The Minister offered 3 measures of assistance. These were: The application of the Government's program of assistance to redundant employees; the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service in finding alternative work and requesting employers in the industry to take what steps they can to employ some of these people. These measures are, in our view, quite inadequate. The Commonwealth redundancy payments, as they have applied in the past, are not generous and certainly not generous in comparison with the redundancy payments made to waterside workers who willingly leave the industry. In our view the staff of the Stevedoring Industry Authority is entitled to nothing less than the redundancy payments now payable to other people in that industry. 
The offer of special assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service does not really give much comfort to a potentially redundant employee especially when there are already a quarter of a million unemployed. As for requesting employers in the industry to help, this is unlikely to be of great assistance as I understand quite a few of the companies have an excess of staff already. In these circumstances we urge the Government to be more directly helpful by instructing all Ministers responsible for statutory authorities to consider ASIA staff for appointment where they are suitably qualified. Indeed, where vacancies occur in the Public Service and these staff are qualified for a position we believe they should receive priority treatment. We urge the Government to take positive steps on behalf of the ASIA staff as we believe it has a moral responsibility to do so. Its redundancy is directly attributable to a policy decision of this Government and as such it should be offered every assistance possible. 
-The con text in which this economic statement which we are now debating was brought before this House was certainly not as a culmination of  6  months of successful management of the economy by the Government. Quite the opposite in fact. This statement was made after  6V2  months of office in which this Government had not only not brought about a recovery but had stifled the recovery which was underway at the time it took office. In the period that it has been in office we have seen not a reduction in unemployment levels but in fact an increase over the last couple of months. Unemployment was falling when this Government came to power. It fell during the 4 months after October, but in the last couple of months for which the figures are available it has in fact increased, that is taking unemployment on a seasonally adjusted basis excluding school leavers which is the figure the Australian Statistician says one should take. Inflationwise there has been no sign whatever of any substantial reduction in the rate of inflation. So on these 2 key indicators we can see there has been no remarkable effort by this Government- a government which came to power on the basis that the Labor Party could not manage this country and that it would be able to get the economy back on its feet, turn on the lights and all that sort of thing. The fact is that it has not turned on the lights. It has not put the economy back on its feet in those  6V2  months. 
The reason this statement comes before the House now is that the Government is being pressured by businessmen and others to do something to get the economy going. That is why this statement is being made. It is not just one more event along the line; it is a special event brought about by the pressures on the Government to do something to try to get the economy moving again because it has not succeeded in doing it so far. 
The objectives of the package as they are outlined by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  are twofold in my view. Firstly, to reduce the size of the public sector. That is said to be necessary to give the private sector room to expand and also to reduce inflation. The second objective is to provide the basis on which to reach agreement with the unions regarding wage moderation- again to try to reduce inflation. In my view, and in the view of the Opposition, it is highly unlikely, for various reasons, that either objective will be achieved. The Government's decision to reduce the public sector when the economy is in a recession is a desperate gamble and I think everyone in this country should realise that. This is not a sound economic policy based on solid economic forethought or analysis. It is a desperate gamble- a dangerous gamble at least -because it depends solely on an event over which this Government has no direct control. It depends entirely for its success on the consumers of this country deciding to spend more money because by reducing Government expenditure the Government is taking out of the economy expenditure on goods and services thereby reducing demand for all the various products which are produced in this country, and the only way in which that cannot lead to higher unemployment and more recession, less economic growth and so on, is for people to start spending more money. 
So the Government is gambling on that happening. If it does not happen, then we are going to go into a far worse recession than we are in at the present time and have been in for the last year or so. 
I think there can be little doubt that reducing government expenditure will accentuate the recession. The fact is that for this financial year, which has almost ended, government expenditure increased by 22 per cent. Under the Budget proposals put forward last Thursday night by the Treasurer government expenditure increases will be something of the order of 1 1 per cent which is a very substantial reduction. Indeed, given that the rate of inflation is now running at something like 12 per cent, and there is not likely to be any immediate substantial reduction in that rate, it seems likely that there will be no real increase in the rate of Government expenditure in 1976-77. So that is a very substantial change from the previous year. It is a substantial withdrawal of demand in the economy which must be made up somehow if we are not to have more recession. Secondly, the cutback in government expenditure undermines the confidence of consumers and investment. Confidence is something which I think we all agree is quite important. I refer to an article produced in the British PEP publication in February this year by the Oxford economist Santosh Mukherjee. I think it is an important article. Talking of the importance of confidence to recovery, he said: 
Yet, in the words of the Secretary-General of the OECD 'Confidence is unlikely to improve if unemployment goes on rising and unless reasonably clear signs of recovery begin to emerge'. Cutbacks of public expenditure before recovery has firmly set in would undermine rather than help to get European economies on the move again, and if the  incipient  upswing falters, governments must be ready to restimulate demand. 
He is saying that it is highly dangerous to cut back government expenditure before the recovery has begun. No one in this country could argue sensibly that recovery has begun now. There are some signs that one might be on the way despite the efforts of this Government to this time, but no one could argue that a solid, sound recovery was under way now. So it is a dangerous thing, as the article from which I quoted mentioned, to cut back public expenditure. 
As I have said, the Government assumes that consumers will increase their spending, but there are various reasons why this is unlikely to occur. Firstly, there is the recessionary environment which is created by the withdrawal of government expenditure, the factor to which  Mr 
Mukherjee referred. When there is more unemployment, people are unlikely to cease squirreling, or salting away their money rather than spending it. It is generally accepted that the reason people have increased their rate of saving in the last couple of years is the much higher rates of inflation and unemployment we have been experiencing in this country. Even if there were some cutbacks in the rate of inflation, if unemployment became higher people would still be likely to save their money, and we would not get the increase in consumer demand which would be necessary to get into the recovery stage. People would still be saving. 
Secondly, many wage earners will be worse off as a result of the package. At the point of implementation of the package, that is, when tax indexation is introduced and we have the Medibank levy and the child endowment and dependent children's tax rebate manoeuvre, a lot of people will be worse off. It has been said that 57 per cent of wage earners will be much worse off. Admittedly, most of them will not be much worse off but there has not been an increase in their welfare. I think it is illusionary just to look at the point of implementation. The point is that tax indexation is not a tax cut. Tax indexation simply means that the Government no longer increases the proportion of a person's income that it takes in tax. It is not a tax cut in the sense of reducing the proportion of income one pays in tax. It is simply a means of ensuring that the tax burden does not increase. So over time people will be worse off because tax indexation is only a tax cut if their income does not go up. If their income goes up in line with the tax indexation formula and inflation it will not be a tax cut. It will simply mean that they will not have a tax increase. But the Medibank levy is a tax increase, which means that people will be paying a higher proportion of their income in tax. So there will not be a tax saving as a result of these measures. It was said originally that 57 per cent of people would be worse off at the point of implementation but, taken over the whole year, a vast majority of wage and salary earners will be worse off because they will be paying the Medibank levy in addition to having tax indexation. This is an important point in terms of whether they will increase their rate of expenditure or save. If they are worse off they are unlikely to increase their rate of expenditure. 
We must not lose sight of the fact that the tax deductions on mortgage interest payments have been abolished. A lot of people will be paying more tax because of this and therefore they will have no incentive to spend more money. The increase in child endowment and the abolition of the tax rebates for children mean that families will have less cash in their pay envelopes. They may have more money in the bank but it will go straight into a savings account. It will not be in their hands in cash and in that circumstance it seems to me rather likely that there will be a tendency for savings as a proportion of income to increase rather than to be reduced. Furthermore, the tax deduction for private health insurance payments is to be abolished. This will mean that people who now itemise their private health insurance payments and claim more than the current block deduction of $540 to get a tax rebate will not be able to do that any more. They will be paying more tax. 
Taxpayers will also be worse off than it appears at present because there will be an increase in State government taxes and charges. Everyone acknowledges that the States will have to carry a bigger burden. Therefore they will increase their taxes and charges and people will be worse off. Furthermore, there is the possiblity of increases in direct taxes in the next Federal Budget. The Government has not said that it will not increase indirect taxes in the Budget. Indeed, the Budget deficit which one can work out from the statement made by the Treasurer last Thursday night will be over $3,000m. If the Government is to reduce that figure to any degree- there is some suggestion from Treasury leaks and so on that it ought- it would mean an increase in indirect taxes, given that most other aspects of reducing the deficit are tied up and given that the Government will not cut expenditure any more or increase income tax or company tax. The only thing left is to increase indirect taxes and if that happens there will be less money in wage earners' pockets and therefore less incentive to increase their rate of expenditure, particularly as the Government has argued that such indirect tax increases should not be passed on by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the form of wage indexation. 
While the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is telling people to spend, his Government is encouraging savings. It is doing this in 2 ways. Firstly, it is doing it through the Australian savings bonds, which have taken over $ 1,000m this year and which are still taking savings. Undoubtedly they are an incentive for people to save rather than to spend. The rate of interest is still relatively attractive. The introduction of the homes savings grant scheme is another incentive for people to save to get the maximum grant. Clearly, there are many reasons for assuming that consumers will not increase their spending. 
In fact, there are a lot of reasons for thinking that they might be persuaded to reduce their spending somewhat. 
All this is based on the Government's ideological hangups about the size of the government sector and the size of the deficit. Previous speakers from the Opposition have made the point that the size of the deficit is not related to the rate of inflation. Indeed, we have shown in previous debates that there is no correlation between countries which have a large deficit and high rates of inflation, nor is there any correlation between countries having a large government sector and high rates of inflation. One can get almost the opposite picture by looking at the statistics. One of the motivating factors is an ideological factor rather than an economic factoran ideological hangup about the large government sector. In fact, the Australian government sector is not large. Compared with most other countries it is a small sector. Figures published by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development last year showed that of the 24 OECD countries the government sector in Australia was the sixth lowest. Yet, by the way that the Prime Minister talks and the way that the Government is acting, one would think that Australia was near the top. Most countries, including the United States of America, have a much bigger public sector than we have. 
Another factor I refer to is the second objective of the package; that is, providing a basis upon which the Government can get co-operation with the unions to reduce the rate of increase of money wages. This has been given great importance by the Prime Minister but it is highly unlikely in the Opposition's view that the package presented by the Treasurer on Thursday night will enable such co-operation to be obtained. There are various reasons for that. Firstly, while attacking wage indexation and arguing for reduced real wages, the Government gives most workers little, if anything, by its recent measures. The Government is arguing for wage indexation on a basis which means real reductions in wages for all workers earning more than the minimum wage. It is arguing that full indexation should apply only to the minimum wage and above that all workers would get a reduction in their real wage. They would get the flat money sum which would be obtained by applying the indexation factor to the minimum wage; this means, therefore, reductions in real wages for all workers. That is a basic element of the Government's policy at this stage. Yet, whilst trying to get the union leaders to co-operate the package gives them absolutely no reason to say to their members: 'Look, you have something from the Government- big tax cuts'. There are no big tax cuts. There are tax increases. In the main, wage and salary earners will be overwhelmingly worse off by this package. There is nothing in the package which gives the unions reason to say to their members: 'Let us co-operate with the Government. Let us cop reduced real wages. We will get it back in tax cuts'. The unions will not get reduced taxes from this package. In the United States of America and in the United Kingdom, where attempts have been made to get trade union co-operation, the governments have gone out of their way to make big tax cuts and have tried to give the unions something to hang on to. They have said to the unions: 'You can get what you have lost back another way'. But that is not happening in this country. 
Also what the Government gains in goodwill by introducing tax indexation- a basic union objective- it loses completely and utterly by the Medibank levy, not just because of the cash but also because of the conceptual factor. Medibank is something which unions appreciated and wanted and they are upset about the attacks on it which have been launched by this Government. It is not just the cash; it is the conceptual aspect as well. The Government has paid no attention to selective employment programs. It is running down the National Employment and Training scheme. It is giving no more money to apprenticeship schemes. It is having nothing to do with schemes like the Regional Employment Development scheme. It is showing no interest in looking after jobs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns a recent address by the Minister to the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science Congress in which he emphasised the need for manpower programs in times of high inflation and poor economic growth. Is it a fact that over 100 positions in his Department's Central Office were withdrawn recently and that half of those positions were in sections dealing with manpower policy? Is it also the case that the number of National Employment and Training scheme trainees at the end of April was only about half the number attained last year and that the Budget for NEAT next year has been cut by $12m? If so, can the Minister inform the House how he reconciles his statements to the ANZAAS Congress with the actions of his Government? 
-At the outset I register some protest at this Bill coming on for debate at relatively short notice. Until Wednesday night we believed that it was not to be discussed until next week. Notice of a day or so is relatively short. The Bill provides for a number of amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Some of the amendments introduce the much-heralded requirement for union officials to be elected by secret postal ballot. Other amendments are aimed at expanding the role and influence of the Australian Government in the procedures of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The attitude of the Opposition to these amendments is that they will not help to promote or achieve the objectives of the Act, and therefore we oppose them. Indeed, we consider that they will be positively harmful to industrial relations if they are brought into operation. 
An exceedingly curious aspect of this legislation is that the Government is bringing it before the Parliament for consideration without being sure whether it really intends to implement it. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his second reading speech informed us that the Government did not intend to proclaim the legislation, other than in respect of the quite minor aspect of providing for the appointment of an additional judge to the Industrial Court, pending discussions with the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the state of the economy, and on wages policy in particular. These discussions with the ACTU are scheduled for next Monday week and the following Friday and Saturday. But the fact that the Government is demanding that this legislation be debated and passed through the Parliament before those discussions are held surely must be taken as evidence that it holds little hope of reaching any substantial agreement with the unions on wages policy. If it believed that there were reasonable prospects of reaching agreement and if it were prepared to put aside these proposed amendments- which are opposed by the ACTU- as its  quid pro quo  for achieving a satisfactory agreement on wages, then surely it would not be asking the Parliament to sit extra days to debate legislation it did not intend to proclaim. Accordingly, the fact that the legislation is being pushed through now can only lead us to assume that the Government is quite pessimistic about reaching such agreement with the unionsand well might it be pessimistic. 
The wages policy that this Government is pursuing is one which seeks to reduce the real value of wages and salaries for all but the miniscule proportion of wage and salary earners who are on the minimum wage. That was the Government's preferred option in the national wage case that was decided today. All other workers would find that the amount of goods and services they could buy with their pay would continually diminish if the Government's wage policy, as advocated by it before the Arbitration Commission in the national wage case, had been implemented. Today's decision goes some way towards the Government's policy by providing for 3 per cent on wages up to $125 a week and a limit of $3.80 a week on wages above that. Had the Government's preferred option been adopted by the Commission all workers would have received a rise of only $2.80 a week. The Commission 's decision means that real wages for low paid workers are maintained but most will suffer some reduction. 
It is difficult to believe that this decision could provide a basis for agreement on wages between the Government and unions though that may not have been possible had the plateau been set at a higher level, say, at the level of average weekly earnings which are about $165 a week. At this level approximately two-thirds of workers would have had their real wages protected. Nor is there much chance that the Government's recently announced fiscal measures would encourage the unions to accept reduced real wages. Unlike in other countries, such as the United Kingdom or the United States of America, the Government has no intention of offsetting reduced real wages by substantial and compensating tax cuts. As we have shown in earlier debates, most wage earners will be worse off as a result of the Government's latest measures. Apart from the very low wage earners and those on very high incomes, especially those with large families, there is little in the package that could be regarded by wage and salary earners as compensation for reduced real wages. It is difficult to see therefore that there is much chance of agreement with the unions arising from the scheduled discussions. Indeed, the Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive has already described the fiscal measures as unacceptable and as having an anti-working class bias. 
Thus we are now debating this legislation because the Government rightly believes that offering to withhold it will not be sufficient inducement to the ACTU to accept and cooperate with the Government's economic and wage policies. In those circumstances the Government intends by this legislation to attempt to impose its will on the unions and the Commission by substantially increasing its role and influence in the wage determination process. For instance, the Bill gives the Minister the power to apply, where a matter is before a single member of the Commission, for a reference to a Full Bench of the Commission. As the Act stands at present the Minister has the power to intervene in a reference matter once it reaches the Full Bench, but he cannot seek the reference. 
Yes, except for section 31. Despite the fact that the final decision as to whether a reference should be granted remains with the  President  of the Commission, this is a substantial expansion of the Commonwealth Government's power to play a bigger role in the day to day operations of the Commission. So it is also with the provision in the Bill to give the Minister the power to appeal a decision of a single member of the Commission whether it be an arbitrated decision or a consent award, and also to appeal a decision by a single member of the Commission to certify an agreement. The Act currently gives the Minister power to intervene in appeal proceedings before a Full Bench but no right to seek that appeal, or review as it is termed in the Bill. 
It is remarkable, indeed it is not a little arrogant of the Minister, that he did not bother to explain in his second reading speech why the Government was seeking these increased powers in regard to references and appeals other than to say that the present position was anomalous and to state obliquely that the measures would be adequate to ensure that decisions of a single member of the Commission were in accord with principles laid down by a Full Bench. Surely a change in the Act of this magnitude, which greatly increases the power of the Commonwealth Government to intervene in the disputesettling process, should be put before the Parliament with substantial supporting argument as to why the change should be made. But this has not been done. The Parliament and the people have been given no substantial supporting reasons. 
The Government also proposes that the Minister will be given a statutory right to be represented by counsel in any proceedings before the Commission. At present the Act requires all parties and intervenors who wish to be represented by counsel to seek leave of the Commission, and that includes the Minister. Now, however, the Minister is to have the right to be represented by counsel in any proceedings before the Commission whereas other parties and intervenors to a dispute will still be obliged to seek the leave of the Commission to be represented in the proceedings. The Minister has given no reason whatever for this change. Indeed, he did not even mention this provision of the Bill at all in his second reading speech. He referred sweepingly to what he terms machinery measures and they presumably incorporate this provision. 
The Opposition sees this provision as being much more than a machinery matter. It places the Commonwealth in a privileged position compared with other parties and intervenors and could well mean that lay advocacy and reference proceedings could become a thing of the past. Accordingly, we strongly oppose this amendment. The Government has also sought in this Bill to lean on the Commission somewhat by proposing to strengthen the requirement that now exists in the Act for the Commission in Full Bench proceedings to have regard to the public interest and in particular to the state of the national economy and the likely effects of its decisions on the economy. The Government now proposes to add that the Commission must pay special attention to the likely effects of its decisions on the level of employment and inflation. In so doing, the Government is undoubtedly attempting to pressure the Commission into paying more regard to the economic arguments of the Government than it did in the indexation case earlier this year in which case the Commission repudiated the Government's arguments saying it could not accept the Government's assertions as to the adverse effects of awarding the full 6.4 per cent due under the indexation principles. 
The Government of course has blatantly broken its election promise to support wage indexation by arguing that the Commission should award only about half the 6.4 percent. Its arguments having been repudiated by the Commission on that occasion, the Government is now, by this amendment, undoubtedly attempting to increase the pressure on the Commission to accept its economic arguments and change the form of wage indexation to one which will produce lower wage increases. As things stand, the Commission has shown by its decision today that it does have substantial regard for the state of the economy. If the Government continues with this amendment it can be seen only as an attempt to induce the Commission to accept the Government's wage line completely rather than the partial acceptance implied by today's decision. 
The Opposition completely repudiates this attempt to intimidate the Commission. It is an insult to the Commission to suggest that in reaching its decisions it does not pay substantial regard to such important matters as employment and inflation already, but that is what is implied by this amendment. What the Government cannot seem to understand is that in making its decision to apply indexation the way it has operated over the past year, the Commission had to have regard to what would happen if that wage fixing system were not operating. The Commission clearly believes that in terms of achieving its objective of equitably settling industrial disputes, the application of full wage indexation was desirable and that if it had not been applied the level of industrial disputation and the level of wage increases would quite likely have been higher than those that did operate with the indexation system. 
This is an aspect of indexation that the Government refuses to face. In the hearing of the national wage case that was determined this morning, the Government refused repeated requests to comment on the industrial relations implications of the Commission's adopting the Commonwealth's recommended format of wage indexation, particularly the likelihood of other wage increases occurring outside indexation guidelines. That attitude and these amendments both demonstrate the Government's blind determination substantially to reduce wage increases flowing from decisions of the Commission so as to reduce real wages. The Government apparently would then rely on unemployment and /or restoration of penalties on unions to ensure that wage increases granted outside the Commission's guidelines did not restore wages to their previous level. 
The Opposition rejects that policy in toto. It rejects the argument that real wages for ordinary wage earners have to be reduced. It rejects the Government's apparent assumption that reducing real wages for wage earners by changing the indexation format will not cause increased industrial disputation. It rejects the Government's proposal to interfere much more in the disputesettling process by its amendments to the reference and appeals procedures. It will clearly be extremely detrimental to good industrial relations if the Government is able to appeal continually, and does, against single member awards, consent awards and decisions to certify agreements, or seeks references of matters to full benches before they are determined. The parties will never be sure whether a matter can be settled quickly and quietly because the Government may come barging in at any time. The incentive to the parties to reach agreement under the auspices of the Commission will be prejudiced and the almost certain result of such Government intervention as these amendments open up is that there will be a tendency for parties used to reaching agreements to go outside the Commission to settle their disputes because they would there be free of Government interference. Apart from all that, the Commissioners could find their role reduced to meaningless proportions, with matters often being referred away from them to a full bench and such decisions as they did make being subject to appeal by the Government. 
Finally, on this aspect of the Bill I make the point that whilst an acceptable form of wage indexation is in operation it is nevertheless possible to keep a check on sweetheart dealswhereby employers concede big wage increases and then pass them on in the form of higher prices- without resort to this enormously disruptive interference by the Government in the dispute-settling procedure. This can be achieved, and is currently being achieved, by the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal which refuses to allow a wage rise that is outside the indexation guidelines as the basis for a price increase. By this means companies are dissuaded from conceding wage claims that are outside the guidelines as any such concession comes out of profits. There are occasions on which companies may be prepared to do that, that is, to pay a wage increase out of profits. If a profitable company wants to keep its employees contented by conceding increases above the guidelines then no damage at all is done to the economy. In this way the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal can be extremely valuable and can provide an infinitely more sensible means of protecting the economy from a damaging wage explosion than the crass methods this Government is seeking to employ. 
Another important aspect of this legislation is the proposed requirement for the election of union officials and, supposedly, officials of em- ployer organisations, to be by secret postal ballots. I say 'supposedly' in the case of employer organisations because frankly we regard their inclusion in this matter as being no more than an attempt by the Government to appear evenhanded in its dealings with industrial organisations. Everyone knows that this legislation is aimed at trade unions in general and some trade unions in particular, and especially one trade union, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. This union was the focus of the Government's attention in the election campaign. Indeed even in his second reading speech on this Bill the Minister referred again to the AMWU as a prime example of the low participation rate by union members in elections for officials. Clearly what the Government hopes to achieve by providing for secret postal ballots is more moderate union leadership- and employer organisations are irrelevant to that consideration. Indeed, if the Government legislates later this year to allow a collegiate system of voting for officials to operate- the Minister's speech seems to indicate that that is a possibility- employer organisations would be little affected by the secret postal ballot provisions as they have mainly relied on the collegiate system in the past and would presumably retain that system. 
The attitude of the Opposition to this proposal for secret postal ballots is that it is unnecessary and somewhat provocative. It was essentially an election gimmick by which the Government succeeded in leading people to believe that trade union leaders, particularly the militant ones, were dominating their members, were unrepresentative of them and were able to remain in office by undemocratic election procedures. The reality is very different. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act currently provides, and has provided since 1951, that union rules must make provision for election of officials by secret ballot with provision for absentee voting. Of course absentee voting is by postal ballot so the legislation currently requires all unions which hold secret ballots by the use of polling booths also to make provision for secret postal voting for those who want to vote absentee. 
Furthermore, the Act provides that if any member of a union believes that the officials are not following the union rules, including the rules regarding elections, he may take the matter to the Industrial Court and obtain an order requiring the union management to observe the rules of the organisation. In the 25 years from 1949 to 1974 only 45 election cases were brought to the Industrial Court. That is an average of less than two a year. According to a study by  Mr Frank  De Vyver, an American academic, which was published in the  Journal of Industrial Relations  of June 1 975, in many of these cases there was no allegation of attempted fraud; rather, technicalities which had been overlooked in the past were used to protest procedures when some individual or group of individuals became dissatisfied with the current officials. There is little evidence of election malpractice. The Act, as it stands, provides that a union member who believes that there has been an irregularity in an election can lodge an application for an inquiry by the Industrial Court into the matter. In the 25 years from 1949 to 1974, 35 cases were heard by the Court, less than one and a half a year on average.  Mr De  Vyver pointed out in his article that in these cases, even though an irregularity has been proved to exist, the case is often dismissed when it is shown that the election results would not have been affected. 
Apart from those substantial protections against election irregularities, the Act currently provides that the union management or a group of members- that is, 250 or 5 per cent of the membership, whichever is the smaller- can obtain a government-controlled ballot simply by requesting one. If a small proportion of members are fearful that irregularities could arise in a union-run ballot, they can obtain a governmentcontrolled ballot quite easily. However, it is the union managements that have mainly sought this type of election. There has been an increasing trend for unions to seek such elections in recent years. In the period from 1950 to now the total number of elections held under the auspices of the Industrial Registrar, at the request of union members, is only 1 18, despite the fact that it is not difficult to get such elections. On the other hand, the number of such elections held at the request of union management between 1950 and now is 724- six times the number held at the request of union members. Of those 724 elections, 402 were held in the 1970s. So it is beyond doubt that there is increasing usage of this form of election by unions over recent years. One reason for that trend is undoubtedly the spiralling increase in postal charges. They have made many unions consider holding such elections through the Industrial Registrar because in this type of election the Government pays the cost of holding the election. 
In our view the current Act provides a very substantial protection against election irregularities. We suggest that the record of the past quarter century displays no evidence of malpractice in union elections. Having examined the provisions of the current Act and having looked at them in operation,  Mr De  Vyver, at page 146 of the article to which I previously alluded, said: 
In fact Australian union members and union leaders who genuinely want honest election of officers have ample provisions in the Arbitration law. 
He also said: 
Only member apathy makes possible major infractions of the rules or irregularities in an election. 
He concluded his article by stating: 
The Australian Government does not interfere in elections but it does provide the machinery so that union elections should never be fraudulent or irregular if the members and officials show interest in the process. 
This raises the point which we have made many times. A government cannot legislate against apathy. The Government's proposal that all union elections be by secret ballot would not overcome apathy. However, whilst regarding the Government's proposal as unnecessary, I would also acknowledge the fact that the Government has made some concessions to union objections, although what we thought on examination of the Bill when it was first put before the House was a major concession has now turned out to be no more than a mistake in the drafting of the Bill or perhaps a change of mind by the Government. The Government's original proposal, as outlined on many occasions, was that all elections for union officials would be by secret postal ballot of all eligible members conducted by the Australian Electoral Office. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations claimed that a benefit of this would be a higher election participation rate because every member eligible to vote would receive a ballot paper. 
However, the Government appears to have made 2 concessions: One is to allow those unions whose rules provide for a form of voting that is likely to achieve a higher participation rate than a secret postal ballot to retain that form of voting. This principally affects the waterside workers, the seamen and the miners. It is interesting to note that all of those unions achieving a high participation rate of voting are left wing unions. So I do not know where that takes the argument presented by the Government about more moderate union leadership coming from a higher participation by members voting for union officials. 
The Government has made the further concession to the Australian Council of Trade Unions that the unions could run their own ballots as long at they remained secret postal ballots. This reduces the impact of the charge of undue interference in trade union affairs somewhat and also prevents possible conflict with International Labor Organisation Convention 87. However, when the Minister put the Bill before the House, it appeared that he had made a far bigger concession than either of the previous Bills because nowhere did the Bill define what was meant by 'secret postal ballot'. It would therefore have been possible, it seemed to us, for unions to conduct elections simply by running a postal ballot in which all who wanted to vote would apply to the returning officer for a form in much the same way as absentee voting is conducted under the current Act. It would certainly not have required that a ballot paper be sent to all members eligible to vote. This would have been a great concession indeed. We were unsure whether the Government intended it but the Minister today has notified us that he will be moving an amendment in the Committee stages to define postal ballots so as to ensure that the Act provides that ballot papers are sent to all members. The Opposition rejects this Bill. 
-The amendment moved by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to clause 3 is quite important. It opens up a rather remarkable factor in this whole debate. It is an incredible irony that this Bill could have come before the House in the way that it did because without the amendment just moved by the Minister it contained a massive loophole. The Bill would have totally failed to bring about that which this Government has been telling the country since the last election campaign that it was going to introduce. All honourable members will recall that during the last election campaign the Government said time and time again that it proposed to legislate, upon regaining the Government benches, to provide that all union members would have a postal vote, or the ability to have a postal vote, in union elections. It said that union members would get a ballot paper sent to them. In fact that proposition was not covered by the Bill put before the House. It now has been covered by the amendment. 
I make the point that in the original Bill clause 3 defined 'direct voting system' as an election of a kind referred to in section 133 (1) (a) of the Act. In summary section 133(1) (a) provides that the rules of the association or organisation shall provide for the election of the holder of each office within the association or organisation at an election at which all financial members are eligible to vote. That means that it is not a collegiate system. It has to be a vote of all members eligible to vote. Clause 13 of the Bill provides that there will be a new section 133  (AA).  Subsection (1) of this proposed new section is in these terms: 
Every election by a direct voting system . . . shall be by secret postal ballot. 
The Bill says that for the election of officeholders the rules must provide that all financial members are eligible to vote and that the vote shall be by secret postal ballot. Nowhere does it say what a secret postal ballot will be. For instance, it leaves open the possibility that there could be a secret postal ballot in the way absentee voting is now required in the rules of all registered organisations. As the Bill reads without the amendment put up by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, a union could have rules which provide that members may simply write to the returning officer, requesting a vote. That would be a secret postal ballot but it would not mean that all the members eligible to vote would receive a ballot paper. When the Government put this Bill before the House it left out an item which was crucial to what it had been telling the country six or eight months ago it would do. This is a remarkable fact, given the tremendous fanfare of publicity that this particular item has been given. It was a key part of the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  When he delivered his policy speech it was a key item of this Government's proposals. When it put this Bill before the House the Government left out that key item. This has now been corrected by the Minister's amendment. 
-These 2 clauses are quite important provisions in the Bill. Clause 4 amends the Act so that the Minister has the right to seek a reference of a matter to a full bench. At present the Minister- the Commonwealth Government- has the right to appear in reference proceedings before a full Bench, but they do not have the right to seek the reference in the first place. Similarly, clause 5 amends the appeal procedures so that the Minister has the right to seek an appeal on an award decision by a single commissioner or by decision of a commissioner to certify an agreement or to make a consent award. As the legislation stands at present the Minister has the right to intervene in appeal proceedings before a full Bench but not to seek the appeal in the first place. 
These are quite important matters and they are opposed by the Opposition. In our view, they indicate an intention by the Government to become much more prominent and interventionist in the dispute settling procedures, an intention by the Government to force parties to toe the line more than it feels otherwise might occur, and also in a sense to force the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission into tighter procedures than it feels may otherwise operate. We oppose these procedures quite strongly. Firstly, I make the point that in our view they conflict with the objective of section 2 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which sets out the chief objectives of the Act. Section 2 reads: 
The chief objectives of this Act are- 
to promote goodwill in industry. 
Frankly, we do not see that objective being enhanced by a provision which allows the Commonwealth Government to prevent being certified an agreement entered into by the parties by seeking a review by a full Bench of the decision by a commissioner to certify the agreement. It certainly does not help the second objective of the Act either, which is as follows: 
to encourage . . . conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
That is certainly not encouraging amicable agreement when the Government is interfering in agreements that the parties may reach. That is what is proposed here. It is a most important provision. When the parties do come together and they reach agreement as to the conditions of an award the Commonwealth Government can say: No, we do not like this agreement. We do not think you people should be making such an agreement. We want it referred to a full Bench and we want it discussed there whether the certification should take place or whether the consent award should be allowed'. It is a most important provision and, in our view, it is conflicting with those basic objectives of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Secondly, we see it as having an effect on the position of commissioners in the dispute settling procedures. Their standing will be diminished substantially by these provisions. A commissioner will always feel that the Commonwealth Government, rather than either of the parties, might attempt to upset any decision he might make. The parties might be quite happy with the decision that he makes, but the Commonwealth Government can try to have that decision upset. That will certainly mean that he will feel that his position is being eroded. He would feel that even more so through the reference procedures, because in that case he would not even get a chance to deal with a matter in the first place. Before he could deal with the matter the Commonwealth Government can say: 'No, you should not be dealing with this matter. It is regarded as a matter of some importance and it should be referred to a full Bench'. Admittedly it is up to the  President  of the Commission to decide whether or not the matter does go before a full Bench. But that pressure will always be there from the Commonwealth Government if the provision is there, and in a sense that pressure is on the  President  of the Commission too. If the Government is seeking reference or review, there is certainly some pressure on him to grant it if the Government thinks it is such an important matter. 
Thirdly, I think we must also view these provisions in the context of the Government's wages policy. The Government, as everyone knows- it is not hiding its light under a bushel in this regard -is quite deliberately and openly seeking a policy of reducing real wages. It said so at great length before the Arbitration Commission and it said so in this Parliament. These procedures are designed to assist that process of reducing the real level of wages. It is doing that through the procedures of the indexation hearings, the national wage case. Through the latest decision there has now been a reduction in real wages of those on wage levels over $ 125 a week. Attempts by the parties to reach agreement with employers to pay the difference, which I am certain will occur to some degree, would be offset by provisions such as this. The Government is quite clearly seeking to tighten up to ensure that the indexation guidelines can be more tightly adhered to. 
In a sense we find that not objectionable- at least in regard to the agreement procedures- if the indexation guidelines are fairly equitable. But when the plateau is set so low- the Government would have it much lower; it would have the plateau at the level of the minimum wage- it becomes a different situation entirely. I think also it raises the whole matter of whether, in trying to prevent a wage explosion and in trying to keep some check on the level of increases in wages, it is better done through the arbitration procedures or through price control procedures. That is a matter to which I alluded in my speech in the second reading debate. So too did the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
It is quite clear in our minds that it is much much better to adopt the procedures of using price control rather than intervening in all the various industrial disputes if you want amicable industrial relations. If you set a context through the price control procedures in which you say: 'Well, wage increases of a certain kind within the guidelines are all right and can be taken into account in price control procedures and can be passed on, all other things being equal, but increases in wages or conditions outside those guidelines would not be acceptable for passing on of a price increase', that seems to us to be a reasonable format in which to establish price control procedures and put some lid on the possibility of a wage explosion. But the Government is not just content to have that happen, and that is happening to a certain extent now because the Prices Justification Tribunal does have a procedure at the moment where it is sticking to the guidelines and saying that wage increases outside the guidelines should not be passed on. As I understand it it is not passing them on. 
But now the Government is going to come in and say on top of that happening, that if the parties wish to reach agreement to increase wages beyond that which is corning through indexation, that increase should not apply. Why not? We cannot see why that should not happen. If the parties want it, what damage is done? If the wage increases are not passed on as price increases, if the employer is prepared to pay the increases, what is the damage to the economy? We cannot see that there is any damage to the economy in this respect. But there is no doubt that there is damage to industrial relations if both parties want to do something and the Government says: 'No, you cannot do it'. If the wage increases will not be damaging to the price level of the rest of the community through higher prices, why should those increases not be granted? As I have said, the Government's stand on this matter certainly has a damaging effect on industrial relations and we strongly oppose this provision for that reason. 
I should like to bring out one point in relation to clauses -4 and 5 which I did not mention before. It relates to the standing of the commissioners. I think that quite clearly what the Government is trying to do by clauses 4 and 5 is to make sure that the commissioners abide by the guidelines coming down from indexation cases. I think that really there is only one substantial case to which we can point where a commissioner made an award which was blatantly outside the guidelines. It was the one case in the year, and that was Commissioner Clarkson 's ruling on the General Motors-Holden Pry Ltd case. I think it pays to look at what happened in relation to that case. Later on when a full bench decided that that decision of Commissioner Clarkson was outside the guidelines it said so publicly. I think we can say that it publicly reprimanded Commissioner Clarkson for making that decision. I think that there is a lesson to be learned there and that is that the Commission is not made up of fools; it is made up of intelligent people who are capable of working out what the guidelines are and of conducting their own self-regulatory procedures. 
The history of the period of indexation over the last year shows substantially that the commissioners have conducted self-regulatory procedures and that they have abided by the guidelines in almost every case except the one I have mentioned. I should be interested if the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  could bring up any others which would justify the kind of legislation which is now before us in the form of clauses 4 and 5. The whole history of that period is one of compliance by the commissioners with the guidelines laid down by the Full Bench and does not require the kind of legislation which is now being put up by the Government. On the matter of the proposals which were supposedly to be put forward by. the Labor Government last year, the point has been made by my colleagues on this side of the chamber that they were never proposed by the Labor Government. They were merely matters which were discussed within the Labor Party whilst in government. Never at any stage were they put forward nor was there ever ' any proposal that they be put forward by the Cabinet or whatever. 
Finally I make the point that if this legislation does go through the effect of it in relation to agreements particularly will be that the parties will .be forced outside the Commission. The parties will tend to go outside the Commission. If they are not allowed to get agreements certified within the Commission they will probably just make the agreements anyway. Something which I think is certain to happen is that there will be pressure from trade unions, particularly in the context of an indexation system which is reducing real wages, to have those real wages restored. I am sure that many employers will feel that they would prefer to pay rather than face the industrial disputation which would occur with continual reductions in real wages if that happens in the future under the indexation system. In that context people will move outside the Commission. By preventing them from getting their agreements certified within, they will go outside the system and all control will be lost. For those reasons we strongly oppose clauses 4 and S. 
Question put: 
That the clauses be agreed to. 
-The Act as it stands requires the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in Full Bench proceedings to have regard to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award it might make. Those are fairly substantial prerequisites for the Commission- it must have regard to the state of the economy and the effect on the economy of its decisions. What this clause adds is that it must consider the effect of its decisions on employment and inflation. We regard this as absolutely unnecessary. Indeed, it is an insult to the Commission and an attempt to intimidate the Commission. We have to look at the context in which these provisions were introduced. The same would also apply to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The fact is that this amendment was introduced, naturally, after the February decision of the Commission which rejected the Government's arguments at that time that instead of granting the 6.4 per cent which was sought, it should grant only 3.2 per cent or thereabouts. In rejecting the Government's submissions at that time, the Commission said that it rejected the assertions of the Commonwealth Government. Those assertions related to the effects on the economy of passing on the 6.4 per cent. The Government expressed its displeasure at that time with the Commission, and made no bones about it. I think the result of that displeasure is clause 6 of the Bill. 
In our view, this clause is an insult to the Commission. We believe that the Commission already has regard to the state of the economy, particularly to employment and inflation which are major factors. In the national wage decisions over the years there are references to the state of the economy and the effects that decisions might have on the state of the economy. The Commission has always paid substantial regard to the state of the economy in making its decisions. Where the Liberal-National Country Party Government falls down is that it looks only at the immediate effects of any decision. It wants the Commission to ignore entirely the industrial effects which might flow from any decision which the Commission might make. Those industrial effects have economic implications. For instance, if in February of this year the increase had been only 3.2 per cent instead of 6.4 per cent there may have been substantial industrial disputation, as a result of which there may have been substantial wage increases. Therefore the system of indexation would have broken down. There would have been much more industrial disruption. There may also have been higher wage increases than those that came as a result of indexation. That is the kind of consideration which the Commission must take into account and which it took into account when making its decision in February this year. 
In making its decision this time the Commission paid more regard to the submissions of the Commonwealth Government and decided not to award the full percentage increase but to five the full 3 per cent only up to those earning 125 a week. It said it was drawing a plateau at that level because of the effect of its decision on the economy. What more proof could one have that the Commission takes into account the effect of its decisions on the economy? At page 29 of the decision it talks about the matters which are contained in this amendment. At page 29 of the roneoed copy of the national wage decision it states: 
The information before us on the slow and halting economic recovery since we began indexation a year ago, on the slow rate at which inflation has declined, especially in relation to our main trading partners, and on the projection of future price movement under full indexation, seems to us to confirm the existence of exceptional and compelling economic circumstances. Thus there are strong grounds for departing on this occasion from full CPI adjustment but the departure can be and should be confined. 
In other parts of the decision it talks about unemployment. These matters are quite clearly foremost in the thoughts of the Commission, but it does not follow automatically that because it is concerned about inflation and unemployment it therefore only has regard to the economic effect of its decision and disregards totally the effect of not making a certain decision. In other words, if it makes a decision now to give no increase in wages, as it said, that would probably have the best economic effect. There would be no increase, no inflation push and no unemployment effect. It must also have regard to the industrial realities. That is what it did. That is what it is obliged to do under the Act. It is there to prevent and settle industrial disputes. The Government is trying to force it to become an economic arm of the Government rather than a dispute settling body. It has to be a dispute settling body, paying regard to the economic consequences of its decision and the state of the economy, which is what it does. Any attempt to push it into a sole economic arm of the Government will have enormous consequences in the industrial relations area. These are matters which the Government must bear in mind. 
In the national wage case the Commonwealth Government was quite culpable for refusing to debate these issues at all. All it put to the Commission was economic material relating to the adverse effects of a wage increase other than what it was advocating, which was 3 per cent with a plateau of a certain level. It did not respond to the many invitations from the Full Bench to comment on the industrial relations effects of the Commission adopting what the Commonwealth Government wanted it to do. In other words, the Commission was saying: 'Tell us what you think the industrial rel. ' ons effects would be of our adopting what you say, 3 per cent on the minimum wage up to a certain amount, and that amount for everyone above that plateau'. The Government would not discuss it. That is a tremendously important matter which the Commission had to bear in mind. It is a matter on which it had to balance out the effects of indexation and the effects of industrial relations against the economic consequences of its decision in making the decision that it finally made. 
My personal opinion- I think it is the opinion of the Australian Labor Party generally- is that the plateau was drawn too low. Nevertheless, we realise that the Commission had to balance out the matters before it. We would say that if it had to reduce full indexation it should have fixed the plateau somewhere near average weekly earnings. If it had done so the majority of wage earners would not have had their real wages reduced. The decision, which has been made on economic grounds, means a reduction in real wages for about 60 per cent of workers in this country. This is something which, if it goes on, will have very substantial industrial repercussions. The industrial repercussions have effects on employment and inflation. These are matters which the Commission already bears in mind. They are discussed at great length. Anyone who knows anything about the hearings of the Commission would know that employment and inflation are matters which are discussed at great length before that body. They are taken into account by the Commission. We say that it is an insult to the Commission to say that is does not pay full regard to those matters. That is implied in this clause. It is also an insult to intimidate the Commission to make it pay even more regard to the Government's arguments than it has to this point. We oppose the clause. 
-Bearing in mind the time, I will be as brief as possible on this clause, but I make the point that it is an important clause and one to which we attach some importance. We strongly oppose it. It seeks to amend section 63 of the Act which deals with representation of parties. As the Act currently reads, parties which appear before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission may be represented by counsel, with the leave of the Commission. This clause proposes that the Minister, in his appearances before the Commission, may appear with counsel without seeking the consent of the Commission or of the parties. That is a distinct change in the position in which the Commonwealth Government would be placed. Only the Government is placed in that advantageous position. Only the Government would have the automatic right to be represented by counsel in proceedings before the Commission. The parties would still be obliged under the Act, as it would read, to seek the leave of the Commission and the consent of the parties to be represented. It would need to persuade the Commission that there were special circumstances, or where the Minister had intervened with the leave of the Commission, so that the parties could be represented by counsel. 
So the parties would be in a less advantageous position than the Commonwealth Government. We think that is a quite inappropriate procedure. This will be particularly so when, as will clearly happen in future there will be a much more interventionist approach by the Commonwealth Government than we have seen in the past. Clauses 4 and 5 of this Bill provide that the Government may intervene, as we have seen in references in appeal procedures, in a way which has not been possible previously. Therefore we can expect much more by way of intervention from the Commonwealth Government. If in these proceedings it is represented by counsel putting forward lengthy arguments as why there should be a reference or why a matter should be reviewed by the Full Bench, the parties will feel that they must be represented by counsel, in a way which is not needed at the moment. There will be much more legalism in the system. Frankly, we think it is not a good thing and that we should be encouraging lay advocacy where possible. Although we do not deny the right of the Commonwealth Government to be represented by counsel in Full Bench proceedings, although I personally think it is not particularly desirable, we think we should not extend that procedure which would put the Commonwealth Government in an advantageous position compared to the position of the employers and the unions. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his speech has given us not one skerrick of a reason why this should be done. There is not a mention in his second reading speech of why the Government should be put in this advantageous position.  His  reference to it presumably comes under the heading 'Machinery Matters', in which he never mentioned the subject. So we have absolutely no idea why the Government has decided to attempt to get this provision in the Act which would give it the right to represented by counsel. We have no idea, because the Minister did not refer to it in his second reading speech. 
It seems to me to be highly disirable that the Government be not represented by counsel in most full Bench proceedings. On occasions points of law may need to be argued,but that is not normally the case. In national wage proceedings there is not legal argument. In fact the Queens Counsel who appears for the Commonwealth Government are nothing more than well-paid elocutionists. They read a prepared brief in which they have had little say in the preparation. They simply read, at considerable expense to the taxpayer, a brief which could just as easily be read by the people who compiled it, either the Treasury official or probably more desirably, an official of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. They are the people who can answer the questions. What happens in a national wage case is that the Commission asks questions of the Government. Counsel, who is virtually only a mouthpiece, has to seek advice and come back later. This inhibits the exchange of discussion between the Bench and the Bar table In my opinion, it would be highly desirable for the Government in the future to have less legalism rather that to seek more, which is what it is doing by this provision. The Opposition strongly opposes this clause. We find it quite unfair. Unless the Minister gives us a very cogent reason why the Government should be placed in this very advantageous position we will strongly oppose the clause. 
I will just make the point that, in referring to the role of counsel appearing for the Commonwealth Government, I was not being derogatory. I was simply making the valid point that they have little say in the preparation of the brief. They simply read out a prepared brief. 
-They may be consulted to some extent but basically it is a brief which has been prepared by the departmental officials and it is one in which counsel do not have a great say. The people who prepared the brief would be best placed to answer questions on it. The point I made was in no way derogatory of the persons concerned. I have met many of them over the years and I admire them in their personal capacity. All I am saying is that it is unnecessary for the Australian Government to brief people to put the case when they are only reading something and when it could be easily done and at much less cost to the taxpayer by people who are already on the departmental payroll, and probably with much greater advantage to the procedures of the Commission. Following the remarks of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  we still find it unsatisfactory and we oppose the clause. 
-The Opposition, like the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  does not find itself enamoured of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I would say that the honourable member for Mackellar is completely overstating the extent of corruption or fraud in trade union elections. If he looks at the record of the last 25 years he will find in fact very little evidence of fraud or corruption in trade union elections. Indeed, that is one of the main reasons why we regard as quite unnecessary this legislation in relation to secret ballots. 
What the honourable member for Hunter says is certainly true. The fact is that if one looks back at cases which have been taken under section 141 or section 159 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, both of which sections give a single member who feels that there has been any untoward activity- fraud or corruptionin a union election a chance to take it to the Industrial Court, one will find that it works out to about 2 cases a year, and not all of those were by any means cases which were the result of fraud or corruption. Often they were brought on mere technicalities and so on. So this is one of the most over-played aspects of the legislation. 
The Government has tried to create an atmosphere in which the whole of the Australian population was made to fear that there was some fraud or widescale corruption in trade union elections. That is not the case. The history of the last 25 years, as shown in the records of the Industrial Court, would not bear that out. The corruption cases are very isolated indeed. So we do not see any need to adopt this amendment. In the case of elections which are conducted by the union itself, the law as it stands at the moment provides for the appointment of scrutineers, and where there are competing groups trying to wrest power in the union both sides would appoint scrutineers. I am sure that either side would soon draw attention to any malpractice which they saw. Indeed, that is the role of a scrutineer in union elections as it is in parliamentary elections. So we see no need for public servants to be acting as scrutineers. In fact, I would say that people from interested parties would probably make better scrutineers than would disinterested people who probably would be bored to death by the whole procedure. 
I will be very brief. I just want to raise a couple of points on clause 13. Firstly, this is the provision which says that the elections shall be by secret postal ballot. I want to point out- I think this should be on the record of the Parliament- that this proposal for postal ballots, if unions generally accept the provision that elections be conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer, will cost the Commonwealth government something like $1.5m a year on the estimates that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has put forward in a submission to Cabinet. This is a cost of $ 1.5m a year at a time when the Government is supposed to be shaving costs. This shows what happens when ideology comes into the matter. When this happens it seems that costs are irrelevant. According to the Minister's submission another 20 permanent public servants above the ceiling which currently operates will be needed to man the Australian Electoral Office. Again we have the same point about ideology bending the practice. 
I would also like to mention the point I made in my second reading speech in relation to secret ballot legislation. In the last few years there has been an increasing tendency for trade unions to adopt court controlled ballots for reasons which I think have much to do with the increasing cost of conducting elections themselves. This was a trend that was quite noticeable in the 1970s. Over half of the court controlled ballots which have been conducted in the last 25 years were conducted in the 1970s. So there is an increasing trend for court controlled ballots. Yet the Government has seen fit to force everyone to conduct this kind of ballot under which a ballot paper is sent to every eligible member of a union. The unions can please themselves whether they have the election conducted by the Australian Electoral Office or do it themselves. 
The point is that this kind of election was increasingly the kind of election which unions were adopting anyway. In fact, in the last year or so unions which intended to conduct elections in this way decided not to do so because they did not want to look as though they were being forced into doing so by the Government. So the number of court controlled ballots would have been much higher than they in fact were if the Government had not been beating the air so much about the need for secret postal ballots. As I have pointed out, the unions were moving rapidly in this direction anyway. Their main argument has been that they did not want to be forced into conducting such ballots and in some cases they did not want this kind of ballot at all. Generally speaking the trend for court controlled ballots was developing and the Government is simply doing no more than forcing some few unions which did not want to conduct ballots in this manner into doing so. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) During the current redeployment of Public Service staff in order to meet the simultaneous requirements of departmental reorganisation and reduced staff ceilings, is it the practice of the Public Service Board to give first priority to surplus and unattached officers in filling departmental vacancies which would normally be filled by promotion or advertisement. 
If so, how many such vacancies have been filled by (a) surplus and (b) unattached officers in (i) the Department of the Treasury, (ii) the Department of Foreign Affairs and (iii) the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons receiving full-time training under the NEAT system are in the following categories: (a) single juniors, (b) single adults, (c) married persons with a dependent spouse, (d) married persons with a dependent spouse and 1 dependent child, (e) married persons with a dependent spouse and 2 dependent children, (f) married persons with a dependent spouse and 3 dependent children, (g) married persons with a dependent spouse and 4 or more dependent children, (h) widows, divorcees, deserted wives or single mothers with 1 dependent child, (i) widows, divorcees, deserted wives or single mothers with 2 dependent children (j) widows, divorcees, deserted wives or single mothers with 3 dependent children, (k) widows, divorcees, deserted wives or single mothers with 4 or more dependent children, ( 1 ) married persons with a spouse who earns between $70.50 and $238.20 a week, (m) married persons with a spouse who earns below $70.50 a week, and (n) married persons with a spouse who earns above $238.20 a week. 
-I ask the Treasurer Is it a fact that in the recent wage indexation case the Government admitted that the confusing array of health insurance options to be introduced from 1 October would alone have the effect of increasing the consumer price index by 2 per cent in the December quarter of this year? Will he explain to the House how he reconciles such inflationary action with his statement in the Budget speech that the Government's first priority is the absolute necessity to combat inflation? Since he has also argued that economic recovery will not be possible until inflation is reduced, does he accept that the new health insurance arrangements, stimulating inflation, will also prolong the economic recession? 
-One thing that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  did not tell us is why he delivered the statement he has just made. I suggest that the real reason for making this statement is not so much to explain the wages policy of his Government to the people of this country or to the Parliament; rather it denotes a move by the Government to undertake an attack on the trade union movement. This has already been made evident in this Parliament to this stage. This is the second sitting week in a row in which we have started proceedings after question time by an honourable member from the Government side getting up to attack the unions for being irresponsible and being responsible for the state of the economy. 
This is an exercise to draw attention away from the fact that this Government is fumbling the economic ball. This Government is not bringing about the economic recovery which it said it would produce. The Liberal and National Country Parties achieved government, or seized government, largely on the rationalisation that it would be able to manage the economy far better than the Labor Government was doing. The results to this stage do not show that that has happened in any way. In fact, they show that the economy is getting far worse. All the indicators show that the economy is heading downwards rather than that any great recovery is under way. 
The reason for these attacks on the trade union movement is to put the responsibility for the present economic position back on to the trade union movement and away from the Government. 
The Opposition utterly rejects this kind of shabby exercise. We say at the outset, after looking at the details of this statement, that the Minister firstly reiterates the point which has been made by various Government spokesmen that the Government places the question of the reduction of inflation first. We do not disagree that the rate of inflation must be reduced. We agree that it is important that we should have a lower rate of inflation. The argument is not about that. The argument is about how that is to be achieved. Here the Opposition differs markedly from the Government in relation to its antiinflationary policy. Although the Government continually says that reducing the rate of inflation is its No. 1 priority, it nevertheless does things for ideological reasons which increase the rate of inflation and therefore presumably conflict with its basic policy. I refer specifically to the re-arranged health insurance proposals which will come into operation from 1 October. By forcing 50 per cent or more of the people out of Medibank the Government will increase the consumer price index by 2 per cent. This, added to the underlying rate of inflation of about 3 per cent in the December quarter, will result in an inflation rate of more than 5 per cent in the December quarter of this year. That action will exacerbate inflationary expectations in this country. It runs totally counter to what the Government says is its basic economic philosophy. So why the hell is the Government doing this? 
The Government's wages policy is totally inappropriate and misconceived. The system of wage indexation was working extremely well before this Government came to office. There had been full acceptance of it by the trade union movement. The results of the introduction of wage indexation had been to reduce substantially the rate of increase in wages in this country. In the 12 months to March 1975 wages increased by 27 per cent. In the next 12 months during which wage indexation applied the increase was 13 per cent. That was a dramatic reduction in the rate of increase in wages. That occurred with full percentage indexation applying. At the same time, of course, there was a substantial reduction in the rate of inflation- from 1 8 per cent in the 1 2 months to March 1975 to 12 per cent in the 12 months to March 1976. So the application of full percentage wage indexation was working extremely well and was bringing down the rate of inflation in this country. It was part of a social contract that we of the Australian Labor Party were able to achieve with the unions and to persuade the Arbitration Commission to adopt. It was a great success for this country. 
This Government achieved office saying that it would support wage indexation, but it then breached faith with the people of this country and the unions. Before the election this Government gave the full impression to everyone that it would support wage indexation. Let me give honourable members some examples. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his election speech: 
Our reforms will maintain the purchasing power of wages and ease the pressure for excessive wage demands. 
I draw attention to the use of the words 'maintain the purchasing power of wages'. That is exactly contrary to what the Government is now saying is its wages policy. Its wages policy now is to reduce the purchasing power of wages- that is what it is about. That is totally contrary to what the Prime Minister told this country before the election was the wages policy of the Liberal and Country Parties. The Prime Minister also said that the Liberal and Country Parties supported the principles of wage indexation. He said that they supported the wage indexation agreement. Finally he went to the full extent of saying in his election speech that the Government will support wage indexation. 
That was an absolutely explicit statement. That clearly gave the impression to the whole of this country that the Liberal and Country Parties, if elected to office, would support full percentage wage indexation. But that is not what it has done. When the crunch came at the end of January and the Government had to make up its mind what its approach would be at the wage indexation hearing that was coming on in February concerning the December quarter consumer price index figures the Government first of all made a decision at the Economic Committee of Cabinet level that it would support full wage indexation. Then somebody got to the Prime Minister and he called a full meeting of the Cabinet and changed the decision to one of support for only half of that amount. Since then the Government has been persisting with the argument that there has to be something less than full wage indexation. So we say that there has been a total breach of faith with the people and the trade unions on the matter of wage indexation. 
The wages policy of this Government is economically inappropriate and industrially naive. In regard to the economic side of it, it is inappropriate for a number of reasons. Firstly, the Government says that it is necessary to reduce real wages so that there can be a transfer of income from wage earners to profits and it says that that has to happen because the profit share is too low and that unless it is increased businesses will not invest and we will not have an economic recovery. 
-I will explain my attitude exactly. Firstly, let me say that we are in the midst of the worst recession for some time- for many decades- and the profit share is already 83 per cent of its normal level. The gross operating surplus of companies was 14.4 per cent of the gross domestic product in the June quarter of this year. Its average over the 4 years to that point was 17.2 per cent. Those figures are contained in the Budget Papers. It is at 83 per cent of its normal level in the midst of the worst recession that we have had for many decades. Furthermore, company profits are increasing substantially. The share has been going up quarter by quarter. In case honourable members opposite do not believe those figures, let me quote from an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 3 September 1976 headed 'Results are way out in front'. The article reads: 
Company profits are soaring. 
Two-thirds of the companies which so far have reported their results for the financial year ending on June 30 have declared profit rises comfortably higher than the inflation rate. 
A  Business Age  survey has shown that 100 of the first 160 companies to report in the current profit season have revealed profit rises greater than 12.S per cent- the 1973-76 inflation rate. 
A further 28 companies reported smaller rises while a similar number actually slipped. Only 5 went onto losses. 
While 60 of the 1 60 companies paid a steady dividend and 11 trimmed payout, 71 saw fit to raise payments to shareholders. 
Total profits earned by these early reporters jumped 2 1 per cent, from $284m to $344m. 
This increase is almost double the inflation rate. It should be remembered that the best results are usually reported early. 
Nevertheless, the early rise is one of the strongest for years. 
I suggest to honourable members that those figures show that, in the midst of a recession, when consumer demand is sluggish, company profits are increasing substantially and the company share is increasing rapidly. Furthermore, in considering whether we should have a rapid transfer of income from wage earners to profits, we must also bear in mind that the tax concessions that this Government is giving to business will result in a fantastic transfer of income to after tax profits. In the next 12 months the tax that companies pay on income being earned this financial year will be reduced by over $ 1,000m- $600m less for the investment allowance and $350m less for the stock valuation adjustment factor, plus the allowances for the mining companies, the increase in the retention allowance for private business and so on. The amount will be well over $ 1,000m. The total amount of company tax raised last year was $2, 500m. That gives one some idea of the enormous reduction in company tax that this Government is introducing and is allowing to companies on income being earned this financial year. How many ways does the Government want it? In the midst of the worst recession for many years this Government apparently wants to give companies the best ride that they have ever had. Quite clearly the Budget is all about making the recession comfortable for business and not about introducing economic recovery. 
I also make the point that it is not necessary to reduce real wages in order to reduce the rate of inflation. That was already happening under full wage indexation. It would have continued to occur with full wage indexation. It could have been accelerated, without cutting real wages, by cutting indirect taxes. That would have reduced the size of the consumer price index and therefore reduced the amount of flow on to wages. So it was possible within the wage indexation context to bring about a more rapid reduction in the rate of increase in wages whilst maintaining the full real value of wages. But this Government has rejected that concept. I suggest that it has done so more for ideological reasons than for sound economic ones. 
Furthermore, the cutting of real wages runs counter to the need of the economy right at this time to increase consumer demand. The Government has cut government expenditure in real terms by at least 4 per cent. It is crucial in those circumstances that the consumer demand be increased, otherwise we will have many more people out of work. Reducing real wages will not help us to have an increase in the consumer demand. If the Government reduces the real amount of money that people have to spend, how does it expect them then to increase the consumer demand to the point where more jobs are being created? They would have to increase their spending ratio just to maintain the number of jobs. They would have to increase their spending ratio substantially to bring about a real increase in the number of jobs available and a substantial increase in the consumer demand. But why should the people do that when their real wages are down and the rate of unemployment is substantial and increasing? People are worried about losing their jobs and are scared about spending their savings. 
There has been no increase in the real disposable income of people across the board. The fact of the matter is that the combined effect of the tax indexation proposals and the increase in family allowances plus the abolition of deductions for children and the Medibank levy or the payments required to be made to private health insurance companies will be that many people will be no better off as a result of the fiscal measures of this Government. Indeed, at the time that all of this was announced- 20 Maythe leak from the Treasury was that 57 per cent of the people would be worse off. In fact, most single people will be much worse off as a result of these measures. So there has been no overall increase in the real disposal incomes of people through the fiscal measures of this Government. The Government is reducing their real wages and it is giving them nothing in the way of tax cuts; yet it is expecting them greatly to increase their consumer demand. I think that that approach is totally and utterly naive and will not work. It will add to recession in this country and plunge this country much further into recession than it is at this stage. 
It will not help to make reference to the position in other countries. The position in the United States of America has been used by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  before its use today by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. They say that cuts in real wages in the United States have brought about economic recovery. In fact, as the  Australian Economic Review  shows, cuts in indirect taxes increased real disposable incomes, that then led to increases in consumer demand and that brought about the recovery in the United States. The edition of the  Australian Economic Review  for the second quarter of 1976, referring to the United States, says: 
The leading element of demand has been consumer spending, which in turn was primarily a response to the large personal income tax cuts operative from the second quarter of 1975. 
So there is no solace in looking at the United States. Its recovery is not due to cuts in real wages but to increases in take home pay through tax cuts. Finally, no trade union official worth his salt can possibly keep telling his members to support a system which inexorably reduces their real wages. How can he possibly sell that to his members? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  the Opposition raises this matter in the Parliament today because it is gravely concerned at the employment situation in general and the employment situation of young people in particular. It is also greatly concerned at the economic policies being pursued by this Government substantially to increase the number of unemployed and to face school leavers at the end of this year with the worst job market for decades. For the fact is that the self-proclaimed great economic managers have not delivered the goods. Indeed they are fast creating a situation in which the level of unemployment that occurred under the Labor Government will appear mild by comparison. 
Already this Government has completely reversed a declining unemployment trend when it seized office to a substantially increasing trend. No amount of fiddling with the figures by abolishing the seasonally adjusted series of unemployment figures can alter that fact. One need only note that in August of this year the number of unemployed was almost 20 000 above the level for August of last year and that the divergence from the figures for the same month of last year has increased markedly over the last few months. Also the seasonally adjusted unemployment figure for August which was not published by the Government but which was printed in various newspapers as 327 876 was the highest figure for some time. 
Nor is there any prospect that this trend is likely to be reversed in the next few months. On the contrary, the combination of a real cut back in government expenditure and a slack, even deteriorating private sector of the economy will create much higher unemployment levels, particularly as at the end of this year 200 000 school leavers plus 50 000 graduates from tertiary institutions will come onto the labour market. Thus 250 000 young people will be looking for jobs in a few months time in a labour market that gives every indication of being in a worse state than it is in now. That state is already bad for young people- far worse than for the work force as a whole. According to the May labour force survey conducted by the Bureau of Statistics, unemployed 15 to 19-year olds had an unemployment rate of 12 per cent compared with 3 per cent for those aged 20 years and over. For teenage girls the unemployment rate was 13.6 per cent. According to that survey teenagers comprise 35 per cent of the total unemployed in the country. 
Since that survey a senior official of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Peter  Kirby, who is in charge of manpower matters, has stated publicly that teenagers comprise nearly 40 per cent of the total unemployed. He also observed that there are 35 young people registered as unemployed for each vacancy registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service and that in non-metropolitan New South Wales, the ratio of unskilled junior males to vacancies was 600 to 1. 1 ask the House to note that figure particularly: metropolitan areas of New South Wales; there are 600 junior males registered as unemployed for every job vacancy for those people. Furthermore, the duration of unemployment for many young people is extremely lengthy. The May labour force survey showed that over 24 000 teenagers were still looking for their first job and that the average duration of unemployment had increased from 14.6 weeks in the February survey to 17.1 weeks in May. About one-quarter of the young unemployed have been unemployed for between 13 and 26 weeks while nearly 20 per cent of them have been unemployed for 6 months or more. 
The effect of such prolonged unemployment on youngsters, particularly those seeking their first job and being met with continual rejection in their search for a job, must surely be deleterious. Their confidence must be sapped and it would scarcely be surprising if they became rather bitter and anti-social, particularly when the Government that is doing nothing to alleviate their position also adopts a suspicious, if not hostile attitude to them and treats them as bludgers on the welfare rolls rather than as people in need of help. 
It is indeed a sad commentary on this Government that it came into office with an employment policy that promised 'a systematic attack on unemployment' and laid out a 5 point program to this end. In practice none of these S points has been taken up and the systematic attack has been on those who are unemployed rather than on the level of unemployment. The viciousness of this campaign is amply demonstrated by the fact that the allocation of funds for unemployment benefit this year is $3 3m less than last year. This is despite the fact that unemployment benefits have increased and the Budget is based on an assumption that unemployment will remain at about current levels. 
The Government has acted specifically against young people by refusing to pay unemployment benefit to them after they leave school until the school holidays are over, by removing their elibility for benefit if they do not accept a job that involves their having to leave home, by refusing benefit for an indeterminate time after they have been deemed to have left their previous job voluntarily and by refusing any increase in unemployment benefit to those under 18 years of age before next year's Budget. If only the Government's determination to prevent the young unemployed from ripping off the public purse were matched by an equal determination to get them jobs, the situation would be at least tolerable. Instead, its paranoia about teenage dole bludgers is matched by an apparently cynical unconcern at the current high levels of teenage jobless and the much higher rates in prospect. How else can one interpret the actions of this Government which has planned its whole Budget on the basis that unemployment will not be reduced this financial year? It has reduced real government demand, thereby eliminating many jobs in both the government and the private fields. At the same time it has given no stimulus to consumer demand, yet without a growth in this key area of demand for goods and services produced by the private sector, there can be no increase in jobs. 
It is terribly important to realise that it requires a growth in consumer demand simply to offset the decline in the government sector, thereby keeping the overall level of jobs constant. Then there needs to be a further substantial increase to take up the estimated 2 per cent increase in the work force which will occur this year. If that substantial increase in consumer demand does eventuate then unemployment will still remain at current levels and the appalling job prospects facing teenagers at present will still remain. If, however, that considerable increase in consumer demand does not eventuate- all the indicators are that it will not- then unemployment will be higher than current levels and the situation facing school leavers and other youngsters seeking jobs will be even more grim. 
Not only is the Government's macroeconomic policy both callous and highly suspect as regards employment levels, but at the microeconomic level it is also quite repugnant. It does nothing to alleviate the situation of the young unemployed by tailoring manpower policies to create employment prospects for them. This area of government activity is virtually as important as attaining an increase in the level of economic activity. For the employment difficulties of the young have not just developed during the current recession; they have been developing for the past decade or so. Many reasons have been postulated for this. A major reason is that the rate of increase in the younger age groups in the population has been much higher than that for the work force as a whole. For instance, from the mid-1950s to the mid-1970s, the rate of increase in the 15 to 24-year-old age group was almost twice that of the total population. Various other reasons have been suggested for this factor but their validity is far from certain. What is clear is that the young unemployed are largely unskilled and possess below average education levels. I shall quote from a paper given by  Mr Kirby  of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. In it he refers to a survey conducted by the Department last September which looked at the characteristics of the junior unemployed. The paper states: 
Over two-thirds of the young males unemployed were registered for semi-skilled and unskilled employment and the same proportion of unemployed young females were registered for clerical and administrative occupations. 
More than one-quarter of the males and one-third of the females had had no previous work experience. Almost onehalf of those unemployed young people had not attempted any education beyond 3rd Form secondary standard, and 2 out of every 3 had not attempted beyond 4th Form. 
In country areas the situation was worse. Very nearly three-quarters of the young unemployed males there had not attempted any education beyond 4th Form. 
Thus the lower educated youths have grim employment prospects. It is clear that if they are to have reasonable employment prospects it will require not just an increase in economic activity but also the provision of training and work skills. Even better educated youths are by no means assured of a job, and the current trend of youths staying at school longer is probably making it even more difficult for the lower educated youths to get a job as employers, faced with a buyer's market, demand higher and higher educational standards. Clearly the solution to the problem of the unemployed young requires greatly increased government initiative in the training area. But this Government is reducing, rather than expanding, its activity in this field. In the area of retraining, for instance, the Government has slashed the level of allowances for most trainees under the National Employment and Training scheme and reduced the number of trainees from more than 14 000 last year to just over 7S00 at present. This is a deplorable situation and contrasts vividly with the Government's announced policy before the last election to 'strengthen retraining'. 
The opportunity exists within the NEAT scheme to expand greatly the training of youths, particularly those with little or no skills. But nothing has been done. The allocation for the NEAT scheme in this year's Budget is $12m less than that allocated in last year's Budget. It shows how important this Government regards retraining, despite the obvious and crying need for training, particularly among young people. Similarly, the Government's response to the needs of the apprenticeships situation is pathetic. The intake of apprentices has fallen by 25 per cent in the last 2 years. Were it not for the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme which was introduced by the Labor Government in 1973 to subsidise employers for engaging apprentices, the situation would be even worse. What has been the Government's response to the situation regarding apprentices? It has not increased the subsidy for apprentice training by one cent in this year's Budget. There has been no increase in subsidies for apprentices, despite the increased cost of training apprentices and the disincentive effects that that has had on employers considering training more apprentices. Instead, the Government has tried to palm off the responsibility for apprentices to the States, but the States have insisted that the Australian Government accept responsibility for this ultra-important policy area. 
Thus the Government has no answers at present. Unless it comes up with something soon the prospects of many young people who wish to be apprenticed being allowed to do so will be very poor. The Government must come up with a policy which will enable young people to obtain apprenticeships, regardless of the state of the economy. As things stand, the chance of a young person obtaining an apprenticeship depends on the state of the trade cycle when he leaves school. This is clearly a most unfair and unfortunate matter. The desperate state of would-be apprentices at the moment is demonstrated by the fact that- again according to  Mr Kirby-  current applicants for apprenticeship in the main trades, and I emphasise in the main trades, exceed opportunities in many areas by a ratio greater than 100 to 1. 1 ask honourable members to note the tremendous excess of applicants for apprenticeships over the number of apprenticeship positions available. In some of the main trades the ratio is more than 100 to 1. In this situation it seems difficult to explain how the Government can justify keeping the apprentice subsidy at $24 a week, on average, when the level of unemployment benefit is $36 a week for under- 18-year- olds. If it is worth paying $36 a week to a person who is out of work surely it is worth having that person in a job, particularly one which gives him training in essential skills. One would have thought this point was almost axiomatic in the current circumstances. 
The Opposition recognises that if the structural problems of youth are to be overcome, greatly increased funds will need to be channelled into technical education. The Labor Government set up the Technical and Further Education Commission and introduced a program of funding for technical education that was decades overdue as a result of shameful neglect of this area by the Liberal and Country Party governments throughout the 1950s and 1960s. The Opposition acknowledges that technical education has received substantially increased funding in this year's Budget, but the backlog is so enormous that a much increased effort is needed. This is demonstrated by the fact that despite the considerably reduced apprentice intakes and high rates of terminations and suspensions of apprenticeships in the current circumstances, more than 1000 apprentices in Victoria still could not be accommodated in technical colleges last year. Quite clearly, a much greater effort- much more than is being done at present- is needed in the area of technical education. In relation to job creation programs, the Government has wiped out the Regional Employment Development scheme. Also, it has not made any unemployment grants to the States. This is another area where employment opportunities for youth could be provided. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The question concerns the national and State committees on discrimination in employment and occupation which were established following ratification of International Labour Organisation convention 1 1 1. Is the Minister aware that the national committee has not met since midMay when its Chairman resigned and that the State committees have not been able to meet since the end of June, at which time the term of office of the committee chairmen expired? Is the Minister also aware that a substantial backlog of work has now built up due to the inability of the committees to conduct any business in the absence of chairmen? Will the Minister now explain to the House why he has not bothered to appoint chairmen to these committees? Will he give the House an assurance that he will do so in the very near future and so enable the committees to get on with their important work? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Before considering the Budget in some depth I want firstly to analyse the circumstances in which the Budget has been introduced. This Government seized power last November substantially on the basis that it could manage the Australian economy more effectively than the Australian Labor Party could. It boasted continuously both before and during the election period of how it would soon set the economy to rights. Let me quote a couple of statements made by the leader of the LiberalNational Country Party coalition- the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  during the election campaign in November and 
December of last year. In the  Daily Telegraph  of 27 November,  Mr Fraser  said: 
Inflation and unemployment would drop under a LiberalNational Country Party government The changes in the direction of policies would start to have an immediate impact. 
The  Daily Telegraph  of 8 December reported: 
Australia's unemployment figures could be slashed by up to 200 000 under a Liberal-National Country Party government, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. He said that at the same time he would try to cut inflation by 1 1 per cent. 
Those were the kind of boasts that were being made during the election campaign. But what is the reality? The reality is that the self-proclaimed great economic managers have produced none of the promised results, nor are they in prospect. 
I ask the honourable members to look at the evidence after three-quarters of a year of Liberal-National Country Party government. I will deal firstly with unemployment. The unemployment level was going down when the Government took office. In the 4 months after October of last year there was a downward trend in the figure. Over the last few months it has increased rapidly. The figure for August 1976 is 20 000 higher than the figure for August 1975. According to the Australia and New Zealand Bank index there has been a decline in factory production in the 3 months from March to June, which is the latest period for which figures are available. The Australian Bureau of Statistics has reported that in the month of July 1976 industrial production declined substantially in twentyone of the thirty-one basic items for which it produces figures. 
There has not been an 1 1 per cent cut in the rate of inflation. The Budget estimate is for a 12 per cent increase in the rate of inflation for this, financial year compared with last financial year. With regard to business confidence, 2 surveys of business executives by management consultant firms were released on the day before the Budget was brought down. One of these surveys, which was conducted by P. A. Consulting Services, showed that over half the executives interviewed believed there were no signs of economic recovery. The other survey, which was conducted by W. D. Scott and Co, showed that less than 30 per cent of the executives interviewed believed there would be an economic recovery in the next year. 
I refer now to consumer confidence. The survey by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research of consumer sentiment, which is conducted every month and a half, has shown a steady decline in consumer confidence since March. In July only 23 per cent of the consumers interviewed expected good economic times in the next 12 months compared with a figure of 36 per cent in January. Retail sales are barely increasing at the rate of inflation. An article in the  Australian  of 2 September headed 'Poor shop sales in July hit hopes for Budget' quoted the Executive Director of the Retail Traders Association of New South Wales,  Mr Lawrence,  as saying: 
The July sales increase had barely, if at all, kept pace with the increase in inflation. 
The article goes on: 

 Mr Lawrence described July as a disappointment for retailers and said reports from the stores indicated there had been no increase in August.  Mr Lawrence  said many major retailers had recast their budgets for the August to February half year in anticipation of lower sales. The July retail sales had borne out their judgment. 
The rate of registration of vehicles showed a notable improvement in the few months to June but the market has since collapsed. In July, the seasonally adjusted figure showed a fall of 14.5 per cent in registrations. The strong rise up to June was probably brought about by the requirement on manufacturers from 1 July to supply emission control equipment. There must have been some forward buying, giving a false figure for recovery in the period before the end of June. 
To summarise, it is very difficult to see from those figures that there was any substantial economic recovery in sight before this Budget was brought down. Yet a basic premise of this Budget is that there is an underlying consumer recovery. All the evidence that we can see shows that there is no such underlying recovery. The figures used by the Treasurer to justify that claim were the figures for private consumption which included vehicle sales in respect of which there was a false figure for the period just before the end of the financial year. 
So I suggest it is clear that the self-proclaimed great economic managers are not producing the goods. As I will explain later on, this has much to do with the fact that the key determinant of the economic strategy is the Government's ideology rather than an objective analysis of what is needed. Unfortunately for the Government and for the country its gamble that it could pursue ideological objectives which would lead also to economic recovery has not succeeded and will not succeed. There are 2 basic objectives in the basic strategy as I see it. The first one is to transfer real income from the public sector to the private sector. There are a number of reasons for the Government wanting to do that. One is its ideological objection to an enlarged public sector. So the Government has cut the real level of Government expenditure. In fact, Government expenditure has increased by only 8 per cent and not 1 1 per cent as the Treasurer claims, because in that 1 1 per cent he includes the family allowance increases which were matched by cutbacks in the tax deductions. If we take that factor out, the increase is only 8 per cent. With inflation to increase at 12 per cent, there is a 4 per cent reduction in real government demand. 
The second reason for wanting to transfer real income from the public sector to the private sector is to finance tax concessions for industry so as to improve its profitability. There are a number of tax concessions to which I will come. Thirdly, the Government wants to reduce the deficit. But in fact it has reduced the deficit much less than appears on the surface because it has fiddled with the accounts. As other speakers on this side of the House have shown, the pre-payments for hospitals under the Medibank arrangements for the September quarter were fiddled. The Telecom borrowing of $200m is a false deduction from the deficit as were the Australian Wool Corporation payment and the repayment from the Reserve Bank for the first time in many years. If one excludes all of those items which can be taken as a fiddling of the accounts, one gets a much different picture of what the real deficit is this year. It will be only slightly less than the deficit last year. 
The second basic objective of the Budget strategy is to transfer real income from wage and salary earners to profit earners. The reasons for that action seem to me to be, firstly, that the Government says that the profit share of gross domestic product is too low and needs to be increased if industry is to be induced to expand investment. Secondly, the Government says that an important means of reducing inflation is to reduce the extent of the wage price push. Underlying this second basic objective of the Budget- that is, the transfer of real income from workers to profit earners- is a deliberate policy of not providing any immediate stimulus to the economy. Thus, unemployment will remain high. 
We learn from the Budget papers that the Government expects that by the end of June next year the level of unemployment will be at about the same level as in June of this year- that is, about 265 000. By keeping unemployment high, the Government clearly hopes to maintain an environment in which its policy of reducing real wages will be capable of implementation. Many unions will find it difficult in those conditions to offset the real reduction in wages stemming from partial wage indexation. So it is difficult to conclude other than that the Government sees substantial advantage in maintaining a slack labour market. Especially is this so when one considers that the Government has made no attempt to stimulate consumer demand to encourage economic recovery. Yet it acknowledges in the Budget papers that without a recovery in consumer demand there can be no recovery in the economy generally. Instead the Government is content to rely on the continuance of a supposedly underlying recovery in consumer demand and to allow this mythical recovery to make up for the loss of demand stemming from the cutback in the Government sector. 
There are a number of bases on which this Budget strategy can be criticised. Firstly, it has a quite vicious and callous attitude. It makes no effort to reduce unemployment. It coldbloodedly contemplates a continuance of economic misery for many people who are without jobs. As evidence of its unconcern, the Government has abolished all job creation programs such as the Regional Employment Development scheme and employment grants to the States, the combined cost of which was over $150m last financial year. It provides no job-creating programs this year, nor does it increase funds for other employment creating or job training purposes. For instance, the national apprenticeship assistance scheme funding increases only very slightly. In the total funding there is not one extra cent in subsidies for employers to take on apprentices. Under the National Employment and Training scheme funding has been cut back by $ 12m as compared with last year's Budget. Here again a means of employing people and training them has been scrapped. The effect of the cutback is that at present only 7500 people are being trained under NEAT as compared with 14 000 at this time last year. 
Nor is there any compassion for the unemployed victims of this Government's policies. Instead of being treated considerately, they are being treated with suspicion and hostility and the eligibility for unemployment benefit is made more difficult- so much so that, despite the assumption of no reduction in the number of unemployed and the fact that the unemployment benefit has been increased, the allocation of funds for unemployment and sickness benefits is reduced by $33m. So it is clear that the proportion of unemployed who qualify for unemployment benefit is to be considerably reduced and the suffering and anxiety of the unemployed accordingly increased. Nor is there any apparent concern at the potentially devastating effect on young people of commencing their working life- I put the word 'working' in inverted commaswith a long period of unemployment. Young people not being wanted and rejected by society, we can hardly be surprised if they in turn become more hostile and bitter towards society or opt out altogether and turn to such anti-social behaviour as drug taking or criminal activity. This is becoming a major social issue of our time. Currently we have 100 000 teenage unemployed, and 200 000 teenagers will leave school in a couple of months' time. Yet this Government regards all that with callous indifference. All it can come up with is the establishment of a committee to look at relating education to the needs of the labour market. It is certainly important that this matter be investigated, but the Government does nothing about the problem that confronts us now or that will confront us in the near future. 
This heartless Budget also cuts back heavily on government assistance to a number of other disadvantaged groups. Expenditure on Aboriginal affairs is cut back by $33m. Expenditure on the child migrant education program is cut from $ 1 1 .5m to $700,000. Aged persons ' homes funding is cut by $27m. There are other items I could mention. 
The second major criticism of this Budget is that it is confrontational. The strategy to slash real wages will undoubtedly bring about a higher level of industrial disputation. No union official can calmly acquiesce to such a policy.  His  members will eventually object very strongly and, if they have the industrial muscle, they will attempt to do something about the cut in their level of real wages. When those unions in a strong bargaining position- there are still quite a few, despite the recession- make a breakthrough they will spur others to follow. So the Government 's wage policy is a disaster for industrial relations. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has made it clear that it will give wage indexation one more chance despite the fact that real wages have been cut in the last 2 national wage decisions. But if the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission continues to implement the Government's wage policy, then the ACTU will be compelled to advise unions to seek the restoration of real wages through direct negotiations with employers. Of course this Government will then castigate the unions for not abiding by orderly wage fixing procedures, as indeed it did earlier this week; but it will be the Government that will be primarily responsible for having destroyed the orderly procedure of full wage indexation, which procedure was working well until the Government broke its election promise to support it and advocated instead a totally different concept of partial indexation. 
The third criticism of this Budget is that it is far too generous to business. The counterpart to the Government's policy of reducing real wages is its aim of increasing real profits. But under full wage indexation profits were already increasing substantially. Admittedly they are below normal levels, but that is to be expected in the middle of a recession. Company profits always drop substantially in a recession and increase substantially in a boom. At present they are at 83 per cent of their normal share of total income and are increasing rapidly. Details of this were given by me in a speech earlier this year, but I mention briefly again an article in the  Age  of 3 September headed 'Company Profits are Soaring'. That showed that two-thirds of companies which so far had reported the results of the financial year had declared profit rises comfortably higher than the inflation rate. The article also said that the early rise was one of the strongest for years. All of this happened in the midst of recession with full wage indexation applying for all but the last five or six weeks of that year. 
Of course, this increase in profitability came about through increased productivity, all of which went into profits and not into wages. So profitability of companies was inproving rapidly with full wage indexation applying, but the Government wants to put industry on a much better footing still by cutting real wages and so transferring real income from wage earners to profit earners. It seems to think that it is essential to get the companies profits share of total income up to its normal level whilst we are still in a recession. If that did happen and eventually an economic recovery occurred, company profits' share of total income would shoot up to an unprecedented high. 
But even this is not enough for the Government. It has also introduced or announced that it will introduce massive tax concessions for industry. Thus we have the investment allowance amounting to $600m to companies next year and a stock valuation adjustment amounting to $350m. The mining companies will get $100m-plus next year and private companies $30m-plus next year. So over $ 1,000m in tax concessions will be allowed for companies on income being earned this year. In after tax terms, industry is being put in an extraordinarily favourable position. This is shown particularly if one notes that the total of company tax income was only $2,500m last year. Yet we are talking of tax concessions of $ 1,000m. From what I stated earlier it is clear that the fundamental part of government strategy is to maintain the recession for another year. It is equally clear that this strategy is being made palatable to business by another aspect of government policy and that is to make recession comfortable for business. 
Another criticism of this Budget is that it is far too optimistic about the prospects of recovery in the private sector this year. With a real reduction in the level of government demand the behaviour of consumer demand is crucial. Indeed we could describe this as the linchpin of this Budget. If consumer demand does not increase this Budget is going to be a total disaster. I have shown already that there is no recovery in sight; nor has this Budget brought about the likelihood that any will occur. An article in the  Age  on 25 August was headed 'Retailers See No Recovery'. The article contained comment by major retailers in the post-Budget era and discussed the fact that there was no recovery in sight so far as they could see. 
There are many reasons for believing that a recovery in consumer demand will not occur while the Government pursues its current policies. Firstly, reduction in real wages will not assist increases in consumer demand. If people have less real pay it is asking a lot of them to suddenly start increasing their total spending. If their real pay is down it is more likely they will cut back on their total spending rather than increase it. Secondly, reduced take-home paythe impact of the Government's fiscal measures relating to the introduction of personal tax indexation, the increase in child allowances, the abolition of tax deductions for children and the imposition of the Medibank levy- will have the combined effect of disadvantaging many families. For instance, single taxpayers in the bracket of $80 to $180 will be worse off. Married working couples with no children in the area of $140 to $300 will be worse off. Couples with one child and receiving between $120 and $380 will be worse off. Even taxpayers with a dependent spouse and one or two children and receiving between $ 1 60 and $200 will be worse off. 
The majority of taxpayers will be worse off as a result of those arrangements, and that does not take account of the fact that the mortgage interest payments have been abolished as a tax deduction thereby reducing people's disposable income even further. The fact that unemployment will get worse and is continuing to get worse will not encourage people to rush into the streets and throw their money around. It is more likely that it will have the opposite effect. The ideology of self-reliance which this Government is trying to impose on this society will not encourage people to spend money. 
-The Opposition brings this matter of public importance before the House today because it is gravely concerned at the current and growing unemployment crisis in this country. It is also concerned at the Government's perfunctory response to that crisis. The extent of the problem is something which is fairly common knowledge to members of this Parliament, but may I just quickly reiterate the developing crisis which confronts us now. We have at present 267 000 registered unemployed. The trend has been upward for quite some months now and is continuing in that direction. 
Since the Government abolished the publication of the seasonally adjusted figures, yes, but if the Government bothered to publish those figures it would have seen that the number of registered unemployed had increased by 12 000. The Government still publishes seasonally adjusted figures in relation to employment; it is remarkable that it stopped publishing them in relation to unemployment. There are 100 000-plus teenagers unemployed. There are 200 000 school leavers and 50 000 graduates of tertiary institutions to hit the labour market at the end of this year. We have a Budget strategy which is based on the maintenance of unemployment. We are told that at the end of this year the level of unemployment will be much the same as that at the beginning of this financial year. That is the Government's Budget strategy. It is clear and can be found in the Budget Papers. That Budget strategy depends on a recovery of consumer demand, of which there is no sign at present. We suggest there is not likely to be any sign of it either, unless the Government changes its Budget strategy. We also have very substantial cuts in the real level of government demand all going to create further unemployment. 
All of that adds up to a crisis picture. The Government's response to that crisis has been minimal, to say the least. In fact, it has been goaded into action either by a political worry or by the genuine concern of a number of back benchers on the Government side. In the last week we have heard announced a couple of initiatives. The first of those was the extremely hasty announcement last Thursday by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the establishment of a committee of inquiry into education and training. That was greeted by the Opposition as a worthwhile investigation, but it is a very long term one. It will not have the effect of doing anything about the present crisis. The second announcement was made at the weekend by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and concerned the introduction of a relocation assistance scheme. That was announced by him to be a major new manpower measure. Tt is neither major nor new. Let me deal firstly with the statement that it is new. The Government says that this is a new scheme. Yet in December 1 974 the then Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cameron,  announced in a Press statement a program of relocation assistance. I quote briefly from his Press statement. He said: 
The Australian Government will help workers and their families move to another district to secure suitable employment. 
Assistance under this scheme will provide for payment of fares, removal expenses, a relocation allowance and assistance to meet legal and agent's fees in selling a home and in purchasing or leasing a new one. 
Pending the development of a general scheme, it will apply to those adversely affected by specific structural change resulting, for example, from the 25 per cent tariff cut, the changes in the level of protection on consumer electronic equipment and components, and the removal of quotas on textiles. 
That scheme was brought into operation at the end of 1974, and it is that scheme which is being reintroduced, although on a wider basis, by this Government. The 2 schemes are almost identical. For instance, in relation to fares, the Labor scheme provided for up to 3 return fares for the applicant to attend interviews arranged by the Commonwealth Employment Service. The scheme announced by the Minister just refers to fares for that purpose. It is not clear how many fares will be provided. The Labor scheme provided for one return fare for the spouse to visit a new area; the same position applies in the scheme just announced. The Labor scheme provided for 2 return fares to enable the applicant to visit the spouse and children before they moved to the new area, that is, if he went ahead of them. The same provision applies under the so-called new scheme. 
Under the Labor scheme fares were provided for the applicant and the spouse to move to the new area; the same applies in the recently announced scheme. Both schemes provide for removal expenses, the only difference being that the scheme just announced by the Minister has a limit of $500; there was no limit on the Labor scheme. The re-establishment allowance is exactly the same: $200 for the applicant; $100 for one adult dependant; $50 for each additional dependant. Those provisions are exactly the same in both schemes. Legal and agent's fees are payable under both schemes. Under the Labor scheme such payments were limited to $300; under the new scheme they have been increased to $500. There is a provision for a rental allowance in cases where a person who is shifting was a tenant rather than a home owner. 
So it is hardly a new scheme; it is very similar to the Labor scheme. Its only substantial difference is that it applies not just to cases of nominated structural adjustment, of which there were quite a few in fact while Labor was in office; some 10 government decisions were nominated as structural adjustment programs to which our relocation scheme applied. The new scheme applies to any person who wishes to shift from one area to another. That, I agree, is an expansion of the program. On the other hand, the scheme introduced by Labor also provided for income maintenance for 6 months for people who lost their jobs. There is no such provision for people who might lose their jobs under this Government's program of wiping out subsidies or assistance to particular industries, such as the shipbuilding industry. That is a very substantial difference. 
Apart from not being a new scheme, it is hardly a major manpower initiative, as the Minister described it. It does not create any jobs. The lack of jobs is the principal manpower problem at present, as is shown by the fact that if all the registered job vacancies that we now have on the books were taken up almost a quarter of a million unemployed people would still be left over. 
In addition, the scheme could prove useless for many workers, simply as a program to deal with structural adjustment, because in areas where there is real depression caused by the collapse of an industry- such as at Whyalla, if the shipbuilding industry folds- this scheme may well be quite useless. In Whyalla there are more than 1800 workers in the shipyards. There are at least twice that many workers outside who are dependent on the shipyards. There are something like 6000 workers directly affected in a total population of 35 000; and with dependants we are looking at at least one-third of the population being affected in this way. Clearly, if the industry collapsed a relocation scheme would not be enough for people who owned their own homes, because there would be a collapse of the property market in a place such as that. People who owned their own homes would be faced either with unsalable homes or alternatively with very depressed prices. They would be locked into that situation. The only way they could get out would be to cut their losses, which could be quite enormous. It could mean leaving their life savings behind. A relocation scheme which simply pays fares to Adelaide or to some other place would not be anywhere near enough. I suggest that, as a program to deal with that kind of situation which looms in front of this Government right now if it does not expand assistance to the shipbuilding industry, this program is utterly insufficient and will not be of great assistance to many people who will be affected by the Government's decision not to expand the assistance to enable that industry to survive. 
All that the Government has done in response to the crisis can be described as perfunctory. That is all that we have- the relocation scheme and the announcement on the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. It is also far less than the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development says should be done. It is far less than most countries which are members of the OECD have done. In March this year the OECD held a meeting for the Ministers for Labour of its member countries. Unfortunately, the Australian Minister did not attend. Had he attended he might have learnt something. The communique which was published by the OECD in March 1 976 says, in part: ... the reduction of unemployment may initially be delayed because in the early phase of the recovery enterprises will first tend to use existing manpower more fully and, in some countries, because of the impact of structural changes ... in this situation, Ministers stressed that a substantial recovery of employment will depend not only on the expansion of demand, but also on related special actions by employment and manpower authorities, to stimulate the creation of jobs and to assist workers to acquire the skills and move into the jobs needed as part of the economic upswing. 
There we have the statement that it is not enough just to rely on recovery of demand. That statement is made by the Ministers for Labour of all the comparable countries in the world, meeting earlier this year. Assuming that we had a recovery of demand, which we do not, the Ministers still say that it would not be enough to rely on that fact to restore full employment; a whole range of special programs would be needed. The Ministers outlined the kinds of programs they thought would be helpful. The communique stated: 
They stressed in particular that manpower training could help the unemployed and new entrants to the labour market to acquire skills needed to enter expanding sectors of the economy. Temporary and selective subsidies to enterprises or reductions of charges on their payrolls should continue to be used or tested as a means to lower the costs to employers of expanding or maintaining employment during the economic upswing. Other possibilities include job-creation programs in the private and public sectors, community employment projects and increased expenditure on public works. 
Those are the kinds of programs which the Ministers for Labour jointly said earlier this year should be introduced by governments around the world. This Government is not doing that. In fact, it is doing quite the reverse. It is relying on the recovery of demand, which is not there, and wiping out some of the special kinds of programs which the Ministers for Labour said should be introduced and expanded. For instance, employment grants to the States were $30m last year and nothing is allocated this year for such grants. The Regional Employment Development scheme was allocated $123m last year. At one stage it directly employed up to 30 000 workers. The scheme employed many more workers indirectly, because of the materials that were being used by those employees. 
In recessions in the 1960s and earlier in the 1970s Liberal and Country Party governments were able to bring themselves to fund job creation programs, even though the level of unemployment was nowhere near as high then as it is now. In 1961-62 there was a program of special grants to the States for employment creating purposes in rural areas. In 1971-72 there was a rural unemployment scheme which provided grants to local and State governments for public works. Why do we not have such a scheme now? Unemployment is much higher right now than it was when previous Liberal and Country Party governments saw fit to have job creation programs. Now there is no job creation program and apparently there is no interest in creating jobs and in keeping people in jobs. The same can be said for retraining programs. The present Government has cut back on the National Employment and Training scheme funding. An amount of $52m was allocated last year and only $40m was allocated this year. 
Because the present Government cut back the allowances and that meant that many fewer people were trained. In fact, we now have 7500 people in training under the NEAT scheme, whereas this time last year, as I said in a debate last week, we had 14 000 people being trained. We have just over half that number being trained now. This Government is cutting back on retraining programs. That is a despicable action in the current circumstances, and it is extremely unwise in terms of labour market policy. The OECD says that a target for a developed country should be to have 1 per cent of the work force retraining at any one time. We have just over 0.1 per cent retraining. When the Labor Party went out of office we were just getting under way with the NEAT scheme, which we hoped would be expanded considerably in the future. This Government has cut it back. That is a quite contrary policy to what is needed at this time. 
The same applies to apprenticeships. This Government has done nothing to expand subsidies for apprentices, despite the fact that the intake of apprentices is down enormously and there has been a dramatic drop in the number of apprentices who still have their jobs. There has been wholesale sacking of apprentices in depressed industries. This Government is doing nothing about it. Other countries are taking substantial action to overcome such situations. I have not the time to go through the various programs, but the OECD publications are full of the kinds of schemes which various countries, comparable to ours, have introduced in order to provide jobs, to keep in jobs and to train people for jobs. This Government is absolutely slack. It is not taking any interest in that kind of program. It is relying, instead, on the recovery of demand. There is no sign that demand will recover. The implications of all that are tremendously severe and important for this country. It means that we will have very much higher unemployment at the end of this year and continuing high unemployment - 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. The question concerns the actions of the Victorian Government in eliminating the discounting of packaged beer prices, thereby substantially increasing the cost of such beer to Victorian consumers. I ask: Is not this action by a Liberal Government totally contrary to the Prime Minister's stated policy of giving first priority to defeating inflation? Does the Prime Minister see any contradiction in a State Liberal Government stifling competition for customers at the same time as his Minister for Industry and Commerce is urging retailers to compete for customers 'boots and all'? Does the Prime Minister intend to take action to stop the Victorian Government undermining his policies by either persuading it to reverse its decision or amending the Trade Practices Act prohibit 
State governments from limiting competition in this way? 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, concerns his claim in answer to questions last week and this week that the national accounts for the June quarter demonstrate that economic recovery is under way. Is he aware that those accounts show that the real rate of growth of gross domestic product, seasonally adjusted, was only 0.6 per cent in the June quarter compared with a growth of 3.6 per cent in the March quarter? Similarly, is he aware that the real rate of growth of non-farm gross product, seasonally adjusted, was only 0.5 per cent in the June quarter compared with a growth of 3.2 per cent in the March quarter? In view of these figures, will he now admit that the latest national accounts, contrary to demonstrating economic recovery, in fact display an alarming deterioration in the state of the economy. 
-The Opposition brings this matter of public importance before the House today for a number of reasons. Firstly, this is the most pressing issue facing the Parliament at the moment. The fact that at present there are 90 000 teenage jobless- one in eight of the teenage labour force unemployed- is a matter of enormous importance to this Parliament and it should be discussed. However, there are a couple of other reasons for bringing forward this matter. They are the paucity of positive action taken by the Government to do anything about unemployment of youth and, more important still, the Government's unwillingness to debate the issue in this House. A couple of weeks ago during the last sitting week the Government finally took a very belated initiative in relation to the young unemployed. But instead of the Acting Minister announcing the initiative in the House so it could have been debated forthwith, the initiative was announced outside the House by way of a Press statement and then the Acting Minister arranged for a question to be asked at question time so that he could say something about it in the House. We regard this as a thoroughly underhand way in which to announce initiatives on important matters, particularly one as important as this. We believe this matter should have been announced in the House and discussed forthwith. In those circumstances the Opposition feels that it is bound to raise this very important matter in the House. 
The fact is that unemployment right now on the latest survey by the Australian Bureau of Statistics is 4.8 per cent seasonally adjusted. That 4.8 per cent is the highest figure recorded by the Bureau of Statistics. It is 0.5 per cent higher than the figure for May. I ask honourable members on the Government side of the House to note the fact that the figure in May was 4.3 per cent and the figure in August was 4.8 per cent, an increase of 0.5 per cent. Yet we are told that the economy is recovering. That same survey shows that there are 90 000 teenage unemployed of whom 26 000 are still seeking their first job. It shows that the unemployment rate for teenagers is 12.6 per cent compared with 3.2 per cent for those aged 20 years and over. It shows that 20 per cent of the young have been unemployed for 6 months or more. 
But the official figures do not tell the full story. As  Mr Kirby  of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations said a month ago, in the last 2 years it is estimated that 10 per cent of would-be school leavers did not leave school simply because they felt it would be hopeless to try to get a job. So we have a substantial and a disguised level of unemployment of young people as well. On top of all this, we have 200 000 school leavers coming on to the labour market at the end of this year plus 50 000 graduates from tertiary institutions. So a mammoth problem is facing this Government and this country. 
What is the cause of this problem? Of course, the primary cause is a very substantial lack of jobs. The ratio of registered unemployed to registered vacancies is currently twelve to one and shows no signs of diminishing. But on top of this lack of jobs there is also another factor of extreme importance to young people, namely, a substantial structural problem. The unemployment rate for teenagers, as I have indicated, is far higher than it is for adults, but the disparity between the 2 unemployment rates is much higher now than it was, say, in previous recessions. For instance, in 1961 the census figures show that the unemployment rate in June 1961, which was in the middle of recession, for adults was 3.8 per cent but for teenagers it was 5.9 per cent. The unemployment rate now for teenagers is 12.6 per cent and for adults 3.2 per cent. So the disparity between the 2 rates has grown enormously. It is clear that a mammoth structural problem which has been developing over the past decade has emerged. It is a problem which is not occurring only in this country; it is occurring in the rest of the capitalist world as well. 
Why has this structural problem occurred? Various studies on this issue point to a number of factors as being involved. Let me mention some of them. One is the cost of training young people. Employers prefer, where possible, to avoid the cost of training young people by employing an already skilled adult. This is particularly noticeable right now in the apprenticeship area where the number of applicants for apprenticeships vastly exceeds the number of positions open to them. Employers would much prefer to employ someone who is already trained. The high labour turnover rates of the young are another important factor. Increasingly, educated youth seems to be rejecting boring mundane uninteresting jobs. They leave those jobs and therefore employers are somewhat loath to employ young people in them because of the high rate of labour turnover. 
Increased work force participation by married women is another important factor. There has been a dramatic development in this area in the last couple of decades. Employers often prefer married women to young people because married women are already trained, more stable and likely to stay in a job longer. The increased pay of juniors relative to that of adults makes employers less enthusiastic about employing young people. Employers increasingly complain that although young people are educated longer they are deficient in basic skills such as literacy and numeracy. In a recession, employers reduce staff by attrition rather than by sacking people and adopt a policy of minimal recruitment of new labour, thus putting the burden of unemployment on the young, especially the less educated young, because insofar as they do recruit, employers demand the highest possible educational qualifications. Therefore it is the lowest educated youth, the early school leavers, who find enormous difficulties in getting jobs. 
There are many reasons for the structural problem which has emerged for teenage unemployment and therefore many solutions are needed. Finding those solutions is not a simple job. We do not in any way pretend that the Government could fix this problem overnight. It is a very difficult job but it is something with which the Government has dealt only minimally. What are the effects of unemployment on the young? This is an area of where minimal information is available, but there is some evidence from surveys of unemployment in Australia. Those surveys show that the young unemployed are often bored and depressed. They become irritable and withdrawn. They become very deficient in self confidence and that affects their ability to get a job. Many of them develop negative attitudes to work after they have been knocked back many times and decide that they would rather opt out of work altogether. They are much more likely to offend against the law. I think that this is an important aspect about which there has been little information available until recently. However, some is now available. I refer to a report produced by the South Australian Government which will be publicly available soon. The document, which is dated May 1976, is entitled  Report of the Youth Unemployment Working Party.  On page 19 of the report there appears some information on juvenile offenders:  an analysis of the juvenile offenders, statistics suggests that the juvenile offending rate is linked to the unemployment rate. The following table shows the percentage increase for several classes of offenders in the period June 1973 to June 1976. 
The report sets out a table of statistics in relation to offenders aged 14 to 18. The increase in total offenders in the period June 1973 to June 1976 was 56 per cent; for school attending offenders 40 per cent; for work force employed offenders 37 per cent; but for work force unemployed offenders 238 per cent. I ask honourable members to take note of that enormous differential figure for work force unemployed offenders- 238 per cent compared with the average of 56 per cent. The report went on: 
Further analysis reveals that from 1972-73 to 197S-76 the proportion of 14-18 year old non-student offenders who are unemployed at the time of committing an offence has risen from 43 per cent to 7 1 per cent for the whole group and risen to 82 per cent when the age 1 7 group is isolated. 
It is obvious from that information that there is some relationship- indeed it looks to be a rather startling one- between the ratio of offences by young people against the law and the fact that they are unemployed. I suggest that there are fairly obvious reasons for this. We should not be surprised at this dismal picture of people becoming more and more withdrawn, becoming depressed and irritable at being unable to obtain a job, and of developing negative attitudes to work, because work is a major means of self expression in our society, and if it is denied to people we cannot expect them to display normal behaviourial characteristics. 
What has the Government done about this problem? I suggest that it has done not very much. Only a month ago it had done nothing except encourage the dole bludger syndrome. It did that very substantially earlier in the year, particularly when it changed the guidelines for unemployment benefit, and a subsequent  speaker  from this side of the House will refer to that point later in the debate. The initiatives that the Government has announced since then have only scratched the surface of the problem. The inquiry into education and training is worthwhile. We hope that something good will come out of that but it is a very long term proposition and will do nothing for the current unemployed or those who will become unemployed at the end of this year when they leave school. 
The relocation assistance scheme similarly is aimed at adults rather than young people. It does not provide any jobs now and it is not going to do very much for the special problems of young people, although it may help some. The special youth employment training scheme is a direct program of assistance for the young but it does not go nearly far enough, in the view of the Opposition. Firstly, the requirement of 6 months registered unemployment is unduly restrictive and is longer than the period of 4 months which applies to applicants for retraining under the National Employment and Training scheme as it has operated to this time. The reason for the extension of that figure was not explained by the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Howard)  in his Press statement. The subsidy of $58 is quite inadequate, in our view. It is less than the NEAT allowance of $64.54 which applies to an adult in-plant trainee, and is only $6.36 above the amount which applies to 18-year-old or 19-year-old in-plant trainees under NEAT. 
It must be remembered that we are dealing with people who have no work skills. They must have left school in the previous 12 months and they must have been unemployed for 6 months. Such people are not terribly attractive to an employer, particularly when he realises that a lot of school leavers will soon be coming on to the labour market. The idea of the subsidy was to try to get these people into the work force and give them skills as soon as possible. In those circumstances, $58 is not likely to achieve that object, and it is the Opposition's view that to achieve anything substantially worth while in the immediate future the subsidy should have been 100 per cent. The updating of allowances for in-plant trainees, which I have mentioned, was well overdue and the Opposition welcomes the increase. The abortive proposal to increase apprentice training was rejected by the States. The Government  refuses to face  the fact that it may have to spend some money on things like that. It is trying to bring about increased apprentice training without spending any money. Increasing the national apprenticeship assistance scheme subsidies would provide added incentives to employers to employ apprentices, but so far the Government has refused to do that. 
In summary, the action taken by the Government is better than nothing but it does not go anywhere towards meeting the needs of the young unemployed. In the view of the Opposition, the first thing that is needed is jobs. One way to get jobs is for the Government to change its whole economic strategy. I do not have time to go into that, but if the Government increased its expenditure, cut indirect taxes and stopped cutting real wages it would have a much better chance of providing jobs, particularly for young people. The second thing that is needed is job creation programs. They are very necessary right now, and I think it is almost criminal that the Government has turned its back on such programs at a time when we have substantial unemployment. We had job creation programs during earlier recessions. We had them in 1961, when a Liberal-Country Party Government was in office, and we had them in 1971 in similar conditions. We do not have them now, but the Government has not said why it refuses to introduce them. 
I think that in this debate the Minister should indicate why the Government refuses to introduce job creation programs. They are operating now in a number of other countries and it seems to me that they would be very appropriate in Australia. Even if there were a change in economic policy, there would still be a lot of unemployment in the short run. If we are to get young people into jobs now we have to introduce job creation programs such as the Regional Employment Development scheme and the special youth job creation program suggested by the Brotherhood of St Laurence, or provide temporary employment in the Public Service, which occurs at the moment in the United States, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Sweden and Canada. All those programs could be introduced without any substantial cost because costs would be offset by the unemployment benefit that would otherwise be paid and the tax revenue received through having people in gainful employment. More assistance is needed in training for jobs, in increased subsidies for apprentices and for the special youth employment training scheme. Assistance to young people to enable them to overcome the effects of prolonged unemployment should be provided through such schemes as the job corps, which operates in Canada, or the job hunters clubs which have been used in the State of South Australia, or by devising a greatly expanded program of vocational training. 
I direct to the Minister for Transport a question which concerns the Government's attitude to the shipbuilding industry. Does he recall that the transport policy put forward by the Liberal and National Country Parties at the last election stated that the Australian shipbuilding industry was important to this country and that it promised specifically that a coalition government would ensure the continuing viability of the shipbuilding and ship repair industries? Will the Minister now give the House an assurance that in determining its attitude to the Industries Assistance Commission report on the shipbuilding industry the Government will adhere to its election promise? 
-The estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations for 1976-77 are somewhat spectacular in one respect and that is that the amount allocated for expenditure this financial year is only half what was allocated in last year's Budget. The estimate this year is $145m compared with $292m last year. That sensational slashing of the estimates for this Department has been brought about largely by the abolition of the Regional Employment Development scheme and the non-substitution in this Department's estimates, or those of any other department, of another form of job creation program. In this year's Budget only $350,000 has been allocated to the RED scheme compared with $123m actually spent last year on it. 
The Opposition regards this matter of the nonexistence of a job creation program in the estimates for this Department this year as a very serious one indeed. It is something we have mentioned in other debates and I will not go into it in great detail. However I make the point that we think there is an obligation on the Government to provide a job creation program. Indeed, we need a number of different job creation programs and their non-existence is a disgrace to this Government. There are 2 reasons for saying that. Firstly, the level of unemployment is so high that it is almost immoral for the Government not to introduce some form of job creation program. As all honourable members know, unemployment is now 1 8 000 higher than it was at this time last year when the then Opposition was blocking Supply, largely on the basis that it was upset about the state of the economy and thought that it could run it better. Now we have 18 000 more people registered as unemployed this year than last year and that level of unemployment is not likely to go down in the foreseeable future. Recently there have been Press reports that the Department has estimated that in January we will have up to 400 000 people registered as unemployed. , 
Apart from the level of unemployment, which is a very important factor and a very important argument for the restoration of a job creation program, there is the fact that this Government promised to introduce job creation programs. It promised this at the last election. In its employment and industrial relations policy it promised a systematic attack on unemployment. Instead of a systematic attack on unemployment we have had a systematic attack on the unemployed by various means which I do not have time to trace now. The Government, as part of its supposed systematic attack on unemployment, said that it would introduce a five point program. The fifth point in that program was the introduction of relief work programs, as it called them. It then spelt out the ways in which it would introduce relief work programs. In fact they have not been introduced. Therefore this Government has broken an election promise by not introducing a job creation program. There is also the very compelling argument that in view of the high level of unemployment such a program should be provided. I remind the Committee that most other countries with economies comparable to our own have such programs. Even the United States of America has a long history of job creation programs. It still has them in operation. We are very exceptional in not having such programs and I think the Government has a lot of explaining to do in this regard. 
The National Employment and Training scheme was introduced by the previous Labor Government. This present Government promised at the last election that it would vigorously implement retraining programs. In fact it has provided $40m in this year's estimates for the NEAT scheme, the same amount spent last year but $ 12m less than the sum allocated by the Labor Government. In fact the vigorous implementation of training schemes has resulted in quite the opposite situation existing to what one would have expected from looking at the Government's policy last year. As a result of the decision of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to slash the training allowances for people under the NEAT scheme we have 5000 fewer people under NEAT in September this year than in September last year. That is a very substantial difference- 5000 fewer in September this year than in September last year. In passing, I would make the point that the NEAT scheme now has a special youth implement scheme. It was introduced at long last by the Government after we told it that it should do something like this to assist unemployed youth in this country. We have expressed our reservations about that scheme but in passing I would emphasise to the Government that there is a need to monitor it. We support the idea of this program; indeed, we say that the scheme should have been more generous. However, we do say that the Government must ensure follow-ups to make certain there is no abuse of the scheme. Reports have come to us suggesting that people have been dismissed from a job in order that someone else can be employed under this program. If that is happening it is a very serious matter and I ask the Minister to make sure that his Department monitors the program to stop abuses of that kind. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service has come under some attack from the Government in various ways. Perhaps the attack has not been terribly severe but there has been some criticism from the Minister and from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  both of whom seem to have implied recently that it was not doing the job it ought to do. The Minister has now announced that he is going to have an inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service. The CES has had to battle with a very big rise in the number of unemployed in the last 2 years. It also has lots of new staff members and they have not been properly trained. The result is that there has been a very substantial dilution in the level of expertise in the Service. In the Opposition's view the Commonwealth Employment Service should not be criticised. It is battling with difficulties, particularly in view of the low level of training of its people. It needs a proper training program and greatly increased capitalisation. A computer system needs to be provided so that we can have an efficient job placement service. This cannot be done without computerisation in the Service. 
There are two other matters I would like to mention quickly in the time left to me. One of the minor cuts in the estimates of this Department involves a cut of $137,000 in the Department's information service. In itself that cut is not very big but I would like to point out one example of incredible mindless penny-pinching which is involved in this exercise of cutting $137,000 off the vote for the information service. The Government has scrapped a booklet known as the  Career Guide for School Leavers  which is published for each of the States. The practice was to place it in the libraries of all secondary schools in this country. That comprehensive booklet was the only booklet available which contained information on a wide variety of job choices and the basic requirements of each choice. It has now been scrapped as a result of the Government's cost cutting program, therefore depriving school-leavers of an important means of assistance in deciding what career would be most suitable for them. I regard this as a most reprehensible action, particularly at a time when there are 90 000 unemployed young people desperately needing vocational guidance with another 200 000 to come on to the labour market at the end of this year. 
I want to mention finally the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation which was formed following ratification of Convention No. 111. This country is bound by the Convention to monitor discrimination in employment and occupation, it having ratified that Convention. This Committee, and the State committees, are quite crucial in ensuring that there is no discrimination in employment and occupation but they have not been able to meet for months. The National Committee has not met since 12 May and it cannot meet because its  chairman  has not been replaced. The Minister simply has failed to replace the  chairman.  The same thing applies to the State committees; they have been out of action since 30 June. Here we are in the middle of October and we still have not got chairmen for these State committees. This means that all the complaints about discrimination in employment and occupation are coming in to the staff of the committees but they cannot be processed by the committees. If this Government really believes what it said in its policy speech last year about how it believed in abolishing discrimination in employment and occupation, the Minister should immediately appoint a  chairman  of those committees and allow them to meet and reduce the massive backlog. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to comments by the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland,  Mr Knox,  on this morning's AM program in which he called for increased Government spending on various public works programs to stimulate the economy and provide employment rather than just waiting around for the private sector activity to increase? Is it a fact, as  Mr Knox  alleged, that the Government has had some difficulty in understanding the benefit that such expenditure would provide to the private sector but that it is now coming to appreciate the point? If so, can the Prime Minister inform the House when the Government's new insight into economic reality will be translated into legislative action? 
Firstly I want to associate myself with the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  The matter that I want to raise tonight is the latest effort of the Government to do something about unemployment. At a quarter past eight tonight I found in my office the latest Press release from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  announcing yet another program. This one is called the Community Youth Support Scheme, otherwise known as CYSS. What a miserable little kiss it is, too. It is not a big fulsome kiss, but the sort of kiss one would expect from the most disaffected mother-in-law. What it does is provide for community groups to be established to undertake such things as job search orientation for youths, voluntary community activities and vocational, hobby and interest expanding activities. 
These sorts of schemes may do some good but this one has a tremendous number of weaknesses. The first thing is that it specifically excludes job creation programs although the statement admits that the real problem facing the Government now is the shortage of vacancies. If the problem is a shortage of vacancies why does the Government not do something about it instead of fluttering around the real problem, putting up a stream of programs which do nothing to affect the central problem, which is the shortage of job vacancies? Secondly, it specifically does not provide support for voluntary job placement agencies. All round the country job placement agencies have been established by young people who are seeking to do their own thing and who are trying to provide for young people an alternative job search association which many of them feel is not provided by the very hard-pressed Commonwealth Employment Service. Yet this program, which is providing some support for community groups, specifically excludes those people. The Statement says that it excludes those organisations because the real problem is the shortage of vacancies. But the Government then does absolutely nothing to create more vacancies. 
The statement says further that part of the idea of the program is to accustom young people to the discipline associated with having a job. Do honourable members know what these people will be paid for the discipline of having a job? They will be paid $6 a week. We are not told in this statement whether for that magnificent sum of $6 a week these people are expected to work normal working hours and face normal work discipline. If they are supposed to do that, are they to do it for a miserable $6 a week? Apparently that is what the Government expects. I regard that as thoroughly absurd. If the normal disciplines of work do apply, I cannot imagine that most young people will be attracted to the scheme by that miserable additional sum over and above the unemployment benefit. The Commonwealth Employment Service is being loaded with more programs almost daily. There have been three in the last few weeks loaded on it. 
I am not knocking the idea of additional programs. What I am saying is that the CES is receiving no more assistance. It is not getting any more staff. The Government reduced its staff by 78 officers this year. The numbers of unemployed are higher than ever. The CES has many more programs to operate. What do honourable members opposite do? Both the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  go around knocking the CES. They have now announced some sort of inquiry into it as though it were to blame for the problem. It is not to blame for the problem. It is fighting a continual battle to keep up with its immense work load. This new program will put more work onto it and yet the Government does nothing to give it more staff. 
One other point I would like to make is that clearly the Government is ashamed to debate these matters in the House. Each of its last 3 initiatives in the unemployment area have been announced outside the House. I refer to the special youth employment program, the inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service and now this CYSS program. The Government is apparently ashamed to discuss these initiatives. It knows that they are only fringe items. It knows that they are not getting to the heart of the matter and it is ashamed to discuss them in the House. 
-The Bill now before the House seeks to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in respect of the method of election of officers of registered organisations; that is, trade unions and employer organisations. The Act as it now stands provides that the election of officers of an organisation shall be by direct ballot of members eligible to vote, except for part-time officers of organisations whose rules provided for their election by a one-tier collegiate system at the time that the direct voting requirement was introduced. That was in November 1973 when the Act was amended in a number of respects by the then Labor Government. It was also provided at that time, however, that organisations would have 3 years in which to bring their rules into conformity with the Act. That 3-year period ends on 13 November. Thus the Government has had to move now if it is to enable organisations to avoid having to change their rules to conform with the Act. 
The change proposed by the Government is, in broad terms, to restore the collegiate system for the election of officers of organisations as an alternative to the direct vote of the total membership. In the case of full-time officers the collegiate system is limited to one tier, but for other positions a multi-tier system is permissible. The Opposition opposes these amendments. It does so because it believes that they run counter to the effective and democratic operation and control of organisations. We consider that union members should have the right to vote directly for their full-time officials, since these are the people who represent the union and guide its day to day operations. Unquestionably they are the most important people in the union hierarchy, and surely it is only fair and reasonable that every union member eligible to vote should be able to have his or her say as to who will occupy these important positions. That is the way Labor sees it, and accordingly we amended the Act in 1973 to provide for that procedure. 
We were not alone in that belief in 1973. The then Opposition raised not one word of protest against our amendments. In neither the House of Representatives nor the Senate was any criticism made by the then Opposition of the change in the method of election of union officials. Indeed, the only comment made by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party came from the then spokesman on industrial relations, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who said in his speech in the second reading debate: 
The Minister is going to a very considerable length to see that union officials are properly elected- democratically elected- by their unions. 
This implied acceptance by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of the direct voting method of election of union officials was confirmed by the fact that in both Houses of the Parliament the relevant clause of the Bill was agreed to in Committee without debate. So it is beyond doubt that the parties now in government have had a very considerable change of mind since 1973. 
But the mental gymnastics of the Government parties go further than that. Everyone in this House will recall that in last year's election campaign one of the issues played up most strongly by the coalition parties was-I quote from the Prime Minister's policy speech- the supposed need 'to give the Australian worker the opportunity to control his own union'. Apparently the present Prime Minister had forgotten his comment of 2 years previously as to the considerable length to which the Labor Government was going to ensure that union officials were properly and democratically elected. He was saying that militant union officials had to be stopped from dictating to their members and accordingly they must be elected by secret postal vote. He and his fellow caretaker Ministers continually deplored the fact that the  president  of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union was elected in a ballot of less than 2 per cent of the union membership. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  for instance, was reported in the Melbourne  Sun  of 24 November last year as saying that the coalition would do what left wing and communist officials feared most; that is, they would introduce secret postal ballots for union elections. Of course, he then made the ritual mention of the election of the  president  of the AMWU and gave that as an example of the sort of injustice that a coalition government would stamp out. 
On obtaining government the Liberal Party and the National Country Party eventually did move to provide that union elections must be by secret postal ballot. But they almost made a mess of that by introducing a Bill earlier this year which failed to define a postal ballot and this would have required little alteration of election procedures by such unions as the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union despite the fact that the election of the AMWU  president  was once again trotted out as justification for the action being taken. However, the Government realised its omission before it was too late and so, in a stumbling fashion, it fulfilled its election promise. Now, the Dick Scotts of this world would be put on their mettle. Every union member eligible to vote would be armed with a ballot paper. If we are to believe the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and various other Government spokesmen, this action would set left wing officials of unions trembling in their boots. 
Frankly, I doubt that many left wing union officials were all that concerned. Some of the unions most left wing had for years employed a system of compulsory voting by all members at union elections. However, those who were feeling a little anxious need not have worried too much. The trap which had been set to catch a sprat had caught a mackerel. Some large right wing unions were aghast at the prospect of having an election by the whole rank and file for their full time officials. So too were the employer organisations who presumably did not mind the Dick Scotts of this world having to face an election by the whole membership but were not too anxious for his employer counterparts to suffer the same experience. Accordingly, as is now common knowledge, and as the Minister admitted in his second reading speech, the Government was lobbied strongly by these powerful forces to amend the 1973 legislation to allow the retention of the collegiate system. 
The lobbyists were apparently assured that something would be done to retain the collegiate system. This is demonstrated by the fact that when the industrial registrar called to his office members of those unions which had not amended their rules to meet the 1973 requirements- about the middle of this year- the Federal  president  of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia,  Mr Maynes,  asserted that he did not believe that it would be necessary to amend his rules because the Government would amend the Act to allow the retention of the collegiate system. That union still has not changed its rules and it has a great deal at stake in ensuring the continuance of the collegiate system. From what I have said up to this point I do not mean to imply that all unions affected by the 1973 legislation were overjoyed.. Quite a few expressed hostility but most of them eventually came around to acceptance and changed their rules. They include such notable left wing unions as the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia, the Australian Building and Construction Workers' Federation- it has now reregisteredand the Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees' Union of Australia. 
Of course, other unions which are not notably left wing have also changed their rules. But some of them have not and they are not all right wing unions. For instance, the Transport Workers Union of Australia which would be regarded as a moderate union still has not changed its rules. Nonetheless, it is difficult to conclude other than that the Government has been greatly influenced in bringing down this legislation by the National Civic Council controlled unions such as the Federated Clerks Union and the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association in which unions the collegiate system enables a minority group to establish control. As evidence for this contention I refer to a letter which has come into my possession. This letter is written by a  Mr Noel  Wilson who is an assistant research officer for the Federated Clerks Union of Australia, central and southern Queensland branch. It is addressed to  Mr J.  Atwell, the Federal  President  of the Liberal Party of Australia, and dated 25 October.  Mr Wilson,  a member of the Liberal Party, as I understand it, wrote: 
Dear  Mr Atwell 
It is with some regret that I write to you personally to strongly protest what I can only describe as a ' sell-out ' by the Fraser Government to the Santamaria/National Civic Council group relative to the secret ballot legislation now before the Federal House. 
On Thursday afternoon of last week the Minister, the  Hon.  A Street, introduced an amendment which for all time, in my opinion, negated the right of rank and file union members to elect on a national basis their Federal Officials and ensured the perpetuation in office of those officials under this system who have never faced a rank and file ballot and under the swindle concocted by the Government will never have to. 
This may sound a strong statement, but as proof of my allegations I provide the following information. 
As a Federal Councillor of the Federal Clerks' Union of Australia, I received in the mail today a purported amendment to our Federal Rules which is completely in line with the amendment introduced into the House by the Minister. I state it would be physically impossible to have this suggested rule amendment properly drafted, typed and despatched in the time available without prior knowledge by those responsible for such amendment of the intended action by the Minister. 
To me it is crystal clear that this Government has 'done a deal' with the Santamaria/National Civic Council group and has 'sold-out' thousands of Australian unionists who saw, in the pre-election industrial promises of this Government, an opportunity to place their own acceptance or rejection on whom would be the Federal Officials of a number of Australian trade unions. 
To illustrate the manner in which the National Civic Council control the Clerks' Union throughout Australia, I give you the following facts. 
The Central and Southern Queensland Branch with a membership of over 23 000 elects six Federal Councillors; New South Wales with 32 000 elects six Councillors; Victoria with 23 000 elects six. 
Now comes the fiddle, particularly when one relates the fact that the Branches I name hereunder are all controlled by the National Civic Council. 
North Queensland (5000 members) elects three NCC Councillors; Tasmania (3000 members) elects two NCC Councillors; West Australia (11 000 members) elects four NCC Councillors; (this was recently upgraded from three to four to enable greater NCC strength at Federal Council ). 
The Taxation Officers' Branch which is 'politically free' has a membership of 4500 and elects only two Councillors and South Australia with a membership of 7500 elects three non-NCC Councillors and there are four Federal Officials who never have faced a rank and file ballot for Federal Office but are self-perpetuating and vote for their own election by the utilisation of a collegiate system which many responsible unionists (and LiberalParty members) hoped had been banished for all time from the industrial scene. 
To give you some examples of how this National Civic Council-dominated college denigrates democracy, I would set out the following facts: 
The Branch Council of my Branch in Queensland, which is the governing body of this Branch, recently by 13 votes to 1 removed a National Civic Council Federal Councillor and replaced her with a non-party person. She had been elected under the collegiate system and was removed by the collegiate system. The Federal  President  of the Union,  Mr J.  P. Maynes, who is also the National Vice  President  of the National Civic Council, ruled that the college could not remove her. Despite the wishes of the governing body of the Branch, she was allowed to vote and then to nominate to be a Vice  President  from the Branch against the wishes of the Branch. The Branch supported myself, a member of the Liberal Party, but the National Civic Council forces secured their maximum vote including the removed Councillor and including the four Officers and defeated my candidature. 
There are attempts by the Federal Office to take over the money and buildings owned by the Branch. Moves to achieve this were carried by twenty votes to 16. The twenty votes included the four officers and the removed delegate from the Central and Southern Queensland Branch. The remainder of the delegates (16 in number) who voted against the proposition represented about 67 per cent of the membership of the Union throughout Australia. 
Despite substantial attacks alleging politics in my Branch of the Union, it is the only Branch which has full time paid Officials who are members of the Liberal Party and the National Party. In each Branch controlled by the National Civic Council, which apparently has direct access to the Minister, there is no member of our Party or of the National Party in a full time paid position. 
This may appear a harsh letter, but it is difficult for me as a Liberal to accept that this Government would secretly liaise with the National Civic Council when the Minister whilst in Queensland was too busy to talk to rae for any length of time. The few minutes I received from him would appear as crumbs from the rich man 's table. I wonder how many hours have been spent in discussions with  Mr John  Maynes and  Mr Santamaria  who, whilst being National Civic Council, are also, and this fact should never to forgotten, members of a labor party. I believe,  Mr Atwell,  that we were opposed to Labor in any of its forms, be it Democratic Labor, Socialist Labor or communist cum Labor and if I am wrong in my acceptance of this belief would you please inform me. 
I trust that even at this late stage some sanity can prevail and this amendment, which I see as a complete negation of a promise we made to the people of this Nation, will be withdrawn. 
With kindest regards, I remain Yours sincerely 
-I did not get it from  Mr Wilson.  Let us consider what comes out of that letter which is rather lengthy but very informative. Firstly, the Government has contrived with National Civil Council supporters in the union movement to introduce the amendment which is now before the House and which proposes the retention of the collegiate system. Secondly, in so doing it has reneged on its stated pre-election intention of ensuring that union officials were elected by their members. Thirdly, the collegiate system is capable of enabling and is used to enable minority groups to control important unions such as the Federated Clerks Union. I remind honourable members that the letter mentions that 67 per cent of the members are in the minority on the Council. Fourthly, where the collegiate system enables a minority group to control the union they can then use their power to weaken the majority and so further cement their control. 
Those are powerful arguments against this House or indeed this Parliament supporting the legislation now before it. Government supporters should be ashamed to be associated with it. Perhaps if they are not all abashed by what their Government is doing, they can contemplate the prospect of explaining to Liberal and National Country Party members and supporters outside this House why it is that they are passing legislation which will allow the National  President  of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union to be elected in a ballot not of 1.8 per cent of the membership, as occurred last time, but in a ballot of 0.02 pier cent of the membership, if the AMWU decided to opt for the collegiate system which this legislation will now provide. The possibility that the AMWU would do so was raised by the Federal Assistant Secretary of the union,  Mr Carmichael,  in an interview in the  Tribune  on S May of this year. 

 -The Tribune. What incredible lengths this Government will go to to protect its ultra right wing friends. Although it is difficult to see why the Government wants to go to such lengths, it is not difficult to see why those it seeks to protect are so concerned. The numbers on the federal council of the Federated Clerks Union are very close, with the break-up being twenty for the Maynes National Civic Council faction and sixteen against. But included in the 20 votes for the Maynes' faction are 4 votes from the federal officers of the union, three of whom are full time and one of whom is part time, who would nevertheless be compelled under the 1973 legislation to face a full rank and file ballot. If all these officers were defeated by the opposing faction, the effect would be a transfer of power not only in relation to the union officials as such but also in relation to the federal council of the union. Thus from the point of view of the controlling National Civic Council faction in the Clerks Union, it is absolutely imperative that the collegiate system be retained as its chances of winning any of the key officers' positions in the union in a rank and file ballot are decidedly low due to the fact that the opposing factions cover two-thirds of the union's members. A similar situation exists in the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association. 
A further unsavoury aspect of this legislation which should also be mentioned is the change in the definition of 'office ' which will enable unions to appoint persons to positions in the union which are similar to elected positions. Thus an administrative officer may be appointed to undertake duties that are virtually identical with those that an assistant secretary, for instance, would be expected to undertake. Clearly, this would enable the controlling faction in the union to strengthen its position without recourse to the membership. In our opinion, it does not accord in any way with the principle of democratic control of unions. Indeed, the 1973 legislation was designed to prevent such appointments by providing that henceforth they must face election by the rank and file. What this Government is doing now is reversing that legislation and allowing the undemocratic appointment procedure to be continued. What a contrast this creates with the Government's assertions during last year's election campaign that it would provide for the democratic control of unions. Not only is the Government denying unionists the right directly to elect their officials and providing for manipulation of officials by minority groups through continuation of the collegiate system, but it is also allowing for some persons to undertake union duties of an official nature without having to face an election. 
Finally, I want to take up the matter of consultation between the Government and the official trade union movement in regard to this legislation. Earlier this year the Government promised the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations that it would consult them in relation to any legislation it intended to introduce to change the 1973 legislation. What in fact occurred was accurately stated by the Minister in his second reading speech, in which he said that the peak councils had been 'informed' of the Government's proposals. What occurred was that the Secretary of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations invited the officers of the peak councils to his office for a working lunch last Monday fortnight and informed them of what was proposed. They all protested that this made a mockery of consultation and asked for time to consider the legislation. They were not given any time, however, and 3 days later the Minister introduced the BUI into the House. The result is that none of the peak councils were able to express an opinion on the legislation before it was placed before the House. The contrast between this off-hand treatment of the peak councils and the apparent conniving with some ultra right wing union officials in relation to this legislation is indeed startling. 
In summary, then, the Opposition rejects this legislation because it considers that the collegiate system which the legislation will allow deprives union members of the right to have a direct say in the election of union officials and is capable of being used, and is in fact used, to enable minority groups in unions to control those unions. This Government's action in moving to retain that system makes a mockery of its high sounding rhetoric about its determination to ensure democratic control of unions. The Government has been revealed as being much more concerned about protecting ultra right wing groups in key unions and saving employer organisations the embarrassment of direct voting for their officials than it has been about ensuring that democracy prevails in the election of officers of organisations. In so doing, the Government has revealed that one of its major planks at the last election was nothing more than a device to obtain electoral support. 
-Let me first take up one point which was raised earlier and which relates to this clause. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Bun)  made the point that the collegiate system in some way protects the rights of members in small States. It does not necessarily do any such thing. I say to the honourable member that the point I was making in my speech at the second reading stage was- it still is- that the collegiate system can be used to give proportional representation to the States on the Federal council of a union or to give more than proportional representation or less than proportional representation, depending on how it is organised. The system can be used for manipulation of the union in the way in which I suggest it is now being used in the Federated Clerks Union and the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association, as I mentioned previously. So, this does not guarantee anything in relation to the protection of small States. They may do more than proportionately well out of the system or less than proportionately well. 
I now refer to the much more important matter of the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and which is designed to insert a new sub-section. Firstly, we have had little time to look at the amendment. I do not know whether the Minister is to blame for that. He apologised to me and I accept the apology; but the fact remains that it is terribly difficult to look at a complex amendment over a meal break, and that is virtually what we have been forced to do. I understand that this amendment makes a substantial difference to the definition of 'collegiate electoral system' and will allow the operation of a system which will mean not only that some union officials will not be elected indirectly by the members but also that some union officials will not be elected by members even directly or indirectly. 
Let me illustrate this point. The definition of collegiate electoral system' in clause 3 of the Bill states that the officers of a union must be elected by and from the college and to get on to the college the officers have to have been voted for in a rank and file ballot in the first place. The phrase by and from' creates the difficulty. It means that if officials of a union want to continue to be elected in order to become Federal secretary, or whatever, they have to be elected to the college and face a rank and file ballot. The Government by this amendment is now allowing officers of unions to avoid having to be elected to the college. They can just be added to the elected members of the college, as they are now in the Federated Clerks Union, the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association and other unions which have a collegiate system. These officers, by being added to the elected members, form a college which then elects the officers, and so the officers become virtually selfperpetuating, particularly where they represent the difference between 2 factions. Usually there are at least 2 factions in any union. That is virtually the case with the Federated Clerks Union, as I said in my speech at the second reading stage. These officers represent the- difference between the 2 factions- the National Civic Council supported faction and the opposing faction. 
As a result of allowing this amendment through, the 4 officers of a union will be allowed to be added to the elected members of the college and by that means to form a college for their re-election. This can go on and on, with the officers never ever having to face an election. This will not apply just to the Federated Clerks Union or the. Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association. The amendment will enable all unions to adopt this approach if they so wish. How far the Government is from the days when it was saying: 'Look at this terrible Dick Scott, the National President of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, who is elected by only 1.8 per cent of the members'. Now the Government intends to allow the AMWU, if it so wishes, to provide for a collegiate system in which Dick Scott and Laurie Carmichael, the Assistant Secretary and another  bete noire  of this Government, can just add themselves to the elected members of the Federal Council of the union for the purpose of determining a college and thereby having themselves re-elected. They need never face the rank and file again. That is what the Government will allow by this process. I think it is the most astonishing thing of all time to come from this Government which went to the people and had as one of its biggest planks that it was going to democratise trade unions and ensure that union officials were elected in a way which meant that they had to face their members, which said that it would arm every union member with a ballot paper. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said that the Government would set the left wing officials and the communist officials trembling in their boots. 
What is the Government doing now? It is making a farce of the whole situation by saying to every federal union official in the country that he can, if he can persuade the rest of the federal council to agree, have the rules changed to provide for a collegiate system so that he can be added to the federal council, the former college, and thus re-elect himself time after time after time. I think it is an extraordinary situation. It is more than just extraordinary; it is also very pointed because this has special relevance right now to a case which is before the Industrial Court. I refer to the case of Clarke v. John Peter Maynes. This is an application made under section 140 ( 1 ) (c) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, a section referred to by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  at the second reading stage of the debate. Section 140 (l)(c) states: 
The rules of an organisation- shall not impose upon applicants for membership, or members, of the organisation, conditions, obligations or restrictions which, having regard to the objects of this Act and the purposes of the registration of organisations under this Act, are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust; 
This application says that the rules of the Federated Clerks Union which currently allow for officers to be added to the elected members of the Federal Council for the purposes of forming an electoral college for the election of the officers, in fact are oppressive, unreasonable and unjust. They are the grounds of the application. If this amendment is carried it will have direct relevance to that case which is now before the Industrial Court. It will mean that the grounds of that application are removed. 
I suggest it is not without some point, to put it at the very least, that the Government is now moving in a way which will assist a leading member of the National Civic Council to win a court case before the Industrial Court at present. I think the whole nation ought to be made aware of this and ask why. Further, I make the point that  Mr Maynes  has not been elected to the Federal Council for 22 years. He is a perfect example of a person who, once having been elected to the Federal Council and having become the Federal  President,  is being perpetuated in that position, without having to face the rank and file since. 
Further than that, in the current proceedings before the Industrial Court,  Mr Keely  Q.C., appearing for  Mr Maynes,  applied for the hearing on 19 October to be adjourned. In making that application he said that the respondent for whom he acted,  Mr Maynes,  expected legislation to be enacted soon which would affect his legal position. This is a most extraordinary situation. The Queen's Counsel appearing for  Mr Maynes  in court on 19 October, before this legislation was introduced in this House, said that his client expected that legislation would be enacted soon which would affect his legal position. I suggest that that is an extraordinary situation. 
-The Minister did not do anything of the sort. He did not suggest publicly at any stage that he would be coming in with an amendment like this, the amendment which he has just introduced in this House. He threw this amendment across to me at about 5.30 this afternoon. I had never seen it before and I do not think anybody else on this side had seen it before. We had not seen it before, yet on 19 October  Mr Maynes  knew all about it. This amendment was not in the original Bill which came into this place either. It is an extraordinary situation. 
I wish to address myself particularly to proposed new clause  6  which seeks to amend section  171D  of the principal Act. This is complicated legislation. I must again register my very strong protest about this kind of amendment being thrown into the House with the Opposition having practically no time to look at it, to investigate it and to understand its full ramifications. It is a disgraceful way we manage business in this House. But we have found out enough about the legislation to know why it is being introduced in this fashion. The Government is probably very ashamed to let the full story come out. Section  1 7 Id  which the proposed new clause  6  amends is part of the so-called Sweeney legislation which was introduced by the Labor Government in  1974  to implement the findings of the inquiry into co-ordinating industrial organisations. In effect it was to try to redress problems arising from the case of Moore v. Doyle. 
Section  171D  provides for a scheme of reconstitution of a union in the event of the Court's finding that an invalidity exists. The Court can order new elections to be held and it can decide what form those elections for officials can take. It can provide, as the law currently stands, that in reconstituting a branch which is found to be invalid, elections for officials may be conducted via a collegiate system or a rank and file ballot. That is how the legislation stands now, it is as it was implemented by the Labor Government following the recommendations of the royal commission in  1974.  This amendment will change that situation. It will limit the choice available to the Industrial Court. In reconstituting a union the court no longer will be able to change the form of election of union officials from what it was in the rules of the organisation before the invalidities were found to exist. In other words, if the rules of the organisation previously provided for a collegiate system of voting the court cannot order that the new system be by rank and file ballot in reconstituting the branch or the organisation as a whole. 
This matter has very substantial significance particularly as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  said at the end of his speech to introduce this amendment that it will apply to proceedings even though they may have begun before this amendment was passed through this Parliament. There is a case now before the Industrial Court which this legislation will directly affect. It is the case of Egan v. Harradine and involves the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association. Various members of Parliament probably are aware of this case. There has been a lot of publicity about it in the newspapers. I think all of us have been circulated with information about it from both sides in the dispute. The matter has been going on for some time. In December  1975  the Industrial Court called upon the parties in that case to bring forward schemes for the reconstitution of the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association in accordance with section  17  ID of the Act but the national  president, Mr Maher,  challenged the constitutional validity of that section in the High Court. Because of the High Court action the schemes for reconstitution were not brought forward. 
It is important to note that the High Court upheld the validity of section 171D so what the Government is now doing is to alter something which was the product of a royal commission and which was upheld by the High Court. The High Court having upheld the constitutional validity of that section the Industrial Court could now order elections of whatever type it thought appropriate if it so decided. 
In regard to the scheme for reconstitution, it was envisaged that both sides in the faction fight would bring forward a scheme for consideration by the Industrial Court. In the light of statements by one of the people involved,  Mr Egan,  it was thought probable that he would include a proposal for a rank and file ballot for national officers. Under this amendment he could not do this because the rules of the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association in force, or purporting to be in force, currently provide for collegiate elections. Therefore in this long portracted case of Egan v. Harradine this legislation is specifically relevant. It certainly will disadvantage  Mr Egan  and his opponent,  Mr Maher,  who has opposed the rank and file ballot system will be considerably advantaged. 
I suggest that this is no accident. I suggest that this amendment is like one of the previous amendments; it has been introduced with at least a large eye on what is happening in an important union in this country. The ultra right wing control of that union is under strong challenge and this Government is acting deliberately to change the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in such a way as to protect the ultra right wing controlling faction in that union- in either the Federated Clerks Union in the first case I mentioned earlier or the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association in this case. I suggest that this is a pretty shameful episode. I suggest it shows that the National Civic Council has considerable influence in the Liberal Party these days, something which I think would not be of great solace to many people in the Liberal Party. Indeed, honourable members sitting on the Government side now and others who are not present at the moment would be rather worried about what is happening. I am sure that they have not really been fully apprised of what is involved in this legislation. It was thrown into the House with practically no warning. So far as I am aware, a lot of Government supporters have no idea of what is involved. I am sure they do not know what is involved. We have been given the minimal amount of time to understand it. The Government has tried to sneak it through the 
House as quickly as possible because it is embarrassed about it. If it is not embarrassed about it it ought to be because this represents a very shameful episode in the history of this Parliament. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="101131197611032_57_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put: 
That the new clauses proposed to be inserted  (Mr Howard's amendment)  be inserted. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns the difficulties that are now being created for the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I ask: Is the Minister aware that there is great dissatisfaction amongst the staff of the Authority due to the procrastination of the Government over the proposed new arrangements for the stevedoring industry and the consequent lack of certainty as to the role of the staff of the Authority during transitional arrangements? Is he aware also that the staff of the Authority are greatly concerned at the lack of promised assistance by the Commonwealth Employment Service, the lack of assistance to staff in obtaining jobs in either the Australian Public Service or other governmental authorities, and the refusal to allow staff who have found another job by their own efforts to take up that employment forthwith? Will the Minister advise the House whether he intends to demonstrate some compassion for the 228 persons whose jobs are being wiped out by acting quickly to meet their very legitimate complaints? 
I find it difficult to understand why the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has raised this matter now. I think it is rather mischievous of him to raise it in the current circumstances of the dispute about which he is so disturbed. The fact is that the dispute is at a very delicate stage. A mass meeting is to be held tomorrow at which the unions are to consider the recommendation of the Australian Industrial Court that they should go back to work and that the dispute should be concluded in the sense that they would hold over consideration of 3 of their 4 claims until the national wage case decision is handed down. The unions will also consider the proposition that there be continuing negotiation on the fourth point which is concerned with a guarantee that there be no redundancies in the John Fairfax organisation through technological changes. In those circumstances this matter has been raised in this House by the honourable member for Mackellar as a means of attacking the unions and accusing them of being various things. I suggest that this action is highly irresponsible if what the honourable member really wants to achieve is to settle this dispute. 
The fact that the honourable member has raised this matter today will be published around the country and will become well known to the parties that are in dispute. It will certainly be something that will come into their considerations. Bearing in mind the delicate stage that the dispute has now reached, the honourable member's action is likely to exacerbate the situation rather than bring it to any solution. I suggest that it was rather silly to have raised the matter at this time. I am pleased that the honourable members opposite, who are trying to interject, are so in favour of industrial disputes that they would like to exacerbate them and to see them go on. I thought that they have tried to tell us that they are against industrial disputes and would like to see them solved. But it is quite clear that if honourable members enter a dispute, start attacking people and talk about certain left wing unionists dominating their members and so onthis is the normal type of rhetoric that we expect from them- such action is likely to inflame the situation. That is what honourable members opposite are doing. 
I do not want to go into the details of the dispute because I am not going to have to get up and argue in favour of or against every dispute that the Government may want to raise. Disputes will go on year after year whichever government is in power. We will always have industrial disputes. It is not the role of the Opposition to get up and defend every action taken by a trade union in this country. I want to make the one basic point that the raising of this matter in this Parliament will not assist the situation and will not help to solve the dispute. It will not help to get letters through in the matter which apparently is of concern to the honourable member for Mackellar. It will not help to get goods off the waterfront. It will not do any of those things. It will, if anything, exacerbate the situation. 
The honourable member for Mackellar said that letters were being held up by the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union. This matter is the subject of a common law action before a court and there is nothing that we in this Parliament can do about it. This matter is undergoing the processes of law right now. Again, this is a matter that is not assisted by the honourable member raising it here at this time. So I suggest it is mischievous in the extreme to have raised this matter if what we want to do is to settle the dispute. 
-This matter that is now before the House is an important matter not only because the economy generally is obviously very important but also it is especially important because almost exactly one year ago this Government seized office substantially on the basis that the then Government was incompetent in its handling of the economy. Having grabbed office by breaking all the conventions of political behaviour in this country, the Liberal and National Country Parties have shown over the past year that they have no answers to the economic ills of this country. The latest frantic moves on the weekend show that the Government is no nearer to finding an answer. In fact those moves on the weekend fit into a pattern that is now well established in other areas of economic activity- that of treating business too generously and creating off-setting problems that have to be corrected. I refer particularly to the taxation and wage policy, and I will come to that later on. 
The measures announced on the weekend will have some effect in further inhibiting economic recovery despite what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  says. In fact it is very interesting that his statement seems to be a fairly casual statement in the sense of trying to persuade people that there would be no real problems created by these credit restrictions. But if one looks at the statements by  Mr Knight,  the Governor of the Reserve Bank, one can see that a rather different picture emerges. He said that the SRD call up would reduce the banks' free liquidity to relatively low levels and that further call ups may be made. He added that the increase in the SRD ratio was being accompanied by a request to the trading banks for some further moderation on the growth in their financing and that savings banks and permanent building societies were also being made aware of the need to avoid an upsurge in their lending. 

 Mr Knight is saying that the bank lending has already been curbed, that it would be curbed further, quite aside from the SRD call, and that other finance groups have been warned not to try to make up the short falls created as the banks lent less. That is a different picture entirely from that given in the Press statement on Sunday night by the Treasurer or now in this House by the Treasurer. In fact, the moves on the weekend will have a restrictive effect and they will further inhibit recovery and perhaps cause more unemployment in this country, and that is an important matter certainly worthy of discussion in this House. I think it is also important to reiterate the fact that at the present time, early in November 1976, the Budget deficit is approximately $250m higher than it was this time last year before the then Government was thrown out of office. This is the situation confronting a government which when in Opposition berated the then Government left right and centre for the extraordinary level of the Budget deficit and suggested that astronomical deficit levels would be created if this trend continued. We are now in a situation where the Budget deficit is substantially higher than it was at that time last year. Again this shows the incredible irony of the situation. I would also point out that despite the fact that there have been substantial efforts by this Government to borrow overseas and also through increases in treasury note interest ratesthe Government has tried on 3 occasions in the last 10 weeks to get more money from this source- the fact is that the deficit is still being largely financed by printing money. Remember how we used to talk last year and the year before about financing deficits by printing money? The then Opposition used to berate us daily with that kind of talk. Here it is, in government, printing money like mad to finance the deficit which it has created. In fact over the last 4 months it has borrowed from the Reserve Bank $ 1,000m in treasury bills to finance the deficit. So who are honourable members opposite to talk about a Labor Government printing money to finance its deficit when they are doing it as fast as can be? Because they are worried about the fact that they are doing that, these measures were taken at the weekend. 
It is again ironic that the major reason for their having to take these restrictive measures at the weekend was that they had been trying to be over-generous to business in this area. They abolished the quarterly company tax payments, which were instituted by the Labor Government, with the result that company tax collections in the first 4 months of this year were $43m compared with $528m in the first 4 months of last year. Quite clearly if quarterly company tax payments had been continued the Government would not have needed to undertake the restrictive measures announced at the weekend. Another $500m-odd would have been in the accounts and therefore there would have been no need to worry so much about the increase in the money supply which has necessarily been created by the need to go to the Reserve Bank and borrow $ 1,000m worth of Treasury bills. All of this money sloshing around that the Treasurer is talking about is largely the result of his own policy of cutting out company quarterly tax payments. It seems to me that if he had allowed company tax payments on a quarterly basis to continue it would have been a far better result for business than restricting credit and increasing interest rates in the way of the announcement at the weekend. 
It is also very important to reiterate just how bad the state of the economy is at present. The really key indicators are worse than they were at this time last year. For instance, the number of registered unemployed is 15 000 higher than it was at this time last year. That means we will have much higher levels of unemployment at Christmas time and in the January period than we had earlier this year. I also comment in passing that the figures for the registered number of unemployed will be somewhat understated in the next few months because this Government has tightened up on the work test particularly in relation to not paying unemployment benefits to school leavers and leavers from tertiary institutions. Right now students leaving universities after finishing their courses and enrolling for jobs are being told that they will not receive any unemployment benefit until next February. A lot of these people will not bother registering and the unemployment figures will be understated. Even so, I suggest figures will be substantially higher than they were last year. The registered number of vacancies is 700 less than at this time last year. In the last month the figure fell by 800 on a seasonally adjusted basis, a factor which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  forgot to mention in his statement announcing the latest unemployment figures. The latest survey of the Bureau of Statistics on unemployment showed that 4.8 per cent of the work force was unemployed- that is the highest figure recorded. Last year at this time the figure was 4.6 per cent. 
Even on inflation the Government's record is nowhere near as good as it tries to make out. The fact is that over the last 12 months inflation in this country has increased by 13.9 per cent. In the previous 12 months to that it was 12.1 per cent. Where is this great advance in control of inflation about which we hear so much? Over the first 9 months of this year inflation increased by 7.9 per cent; last year in the first 9 months it increased 8 per cent. So congratulations to the Government; it has reduced inflation by 0. 1 per cent in the first 9 months of this year. Whichever of these 2 important indicators, unemployment and inflation, one looks at, the fact is that they are both in a worse state than they were at this time last year. 
One can go through the various other indicators but time does not permit. I make the point that if one looks at the Government's economic policy strategy in relation to taxation and wages the fact is that both of those policies have been geared in a way to try to assist private business but in trying to do so they have had off-setting effects which are detrimental to private business. On the taxation side the concessions which will cost hundreds of millions of dollars this year and over $ 1 ,000m next financial year, have had to be offset by substantial costs in government expenditure. Those cuts in government expenditure are daily creating more unemployment and the evidence is there for anyone who wants to look. Time does not permit me to go over the evidence but it is there for anyone who wants to see it. Company after company is now complaining that its business is being affected by cuts in government expenditure. The same relates to the wage policy. The cutbacks in the real level of wages to transfer income from wage earners to profit earners might be beneficial to business in the very short run but if it means that consumers therefore will not increase their consumer expenditure and will not buy more goods and use more services business will not be assisted and thus the economy will continue in recession for a long time. 
-The Opposition welcomes the decision by the Government to adopt the Fraser Island report. It is certainly a great victory for all concerned with the protection of the environment. I should note also that it is a vindication of the decision of the Labor Government to establish the inquiry in the first place. The Opposition therefore takes special satisfaction from the adoption of the report. Nevertheless, there are some aspects of this report to which I wish to address myself. It must be admitted that there are costs involved in this decision. In my opinion, the costs are worth paying. Nevertheless, we should look briefly at them. 
It seems to me that there are 2 sets of costs. Firstly, there is a loss of national income and exports by foregoing the mining activities. This has an effect on our gross domestic product and balance of payments. Secondly, there are costs relating to the economic effect on the persons in the Maryborough-Hervey Bay area. The first set of costs will be borne by the nation as a whole, and this is appropriate as we are seeking to preserve a unique aspect of our natural environment for all Australians. The Opposition is concerned that the second element of sacrifice will be borne by the persons directly concerned and that the element of national sacrifice will not extend to them. 
After listening to the statement made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  I do not feel much satisfaction about the protection that is being offered to persons who are directly affected by the decision. The Commission of Inquiry made it clear in its report that it expected that the cessation of mining, as recommended by it, would have adverse economic and employment effects in the Maryborough-Hervey Bay district. It was not able to evaluate that effect as it depended on such intangibles as the likely increase in tourism that would flow from implementation of the report. Nevertheless, the Commission considered that assistance to the region would be required. The second recommendation contained in the report states: 
Appropriate economic and other assistance be given to the extent that adverse regional economic effects follow the implementation of recommendation 1. 
The first recommendation in the report was, of course, to cease mining activities. The Commission recommends in the body of its report that this assistance be provided by both State and Commonwealth governments. But if any really effective steps are to be taken these will almost certainly depend on the Commonwealth Government taking the initiative. This raises the very pertinent point as to what is the responsibility of governments to people who are adversely affected by actions taken by those governments in the national interest. 
In the recent past the Labor Government accepted responsibility for actions it took in the national interests on such matters as reducing tariffs by providing structural adjustment assistance to employees who lost their jobs as a consequence of that government action. These employees were able to receive the average of their weekly earnings over the previous 6 months for a period up to 6 months if they could not obtain another job. If this kind of income maintenance can be made available to persons affected by one set of government decisions, it is surely only fair that other persons similarly affected by other government decisions should receive the same kind of assistance. 
I am not sure at this stage just what is the state of the structural adjustment assistance program, as it operated under the Labor Government. It depended on a declaration by the government that persons affected by certain government decision were eligible for assistance. I am unaware of any such declarations being made by the 
Fraser Government. Nevertheless, I suppose the income maintenance scheme which applied under the Labor Government still exists on the books. That scheme which applied when tariffs were cut could easily be applied in this instance and, in the opinion of the Opposition, should be applied. As I have said, this situation is similar in that a Government decision affects employment. There is no earthly reason why the scheme should not be applied in this case as it was applied in the case of persons affected by tariff cuts. 
Instead, the Minister's statement offers income support to unemployed persons by way of unemployment benefit and other related benefits, whatever that means. The offer of the unemployment benefit is not really one designed to fill a potential recipient with great enthusiasm. It seems to me that the Government could have been rather more generous, to say the least, in looking after the persons who will be directly affected by loss of employment by extending to them the income maintenance scheme under the structural adjustment assistance program rather than offering them the unemployment benefit as though it were some great effort by the Government to assist them. 
The other measures mentioned by the Minister are employment counselling, placement and related services available through the Commonwealth Employment Service. This is nothing particularly especial. It has been offered in some special way to the persons in this country who have been affected by the measures that the Government is introducing on the waterfront- to the employees of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. So far, although they were given notice in July, those persons still have not received any special assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service. I am not blaming the officers of the CES. I suggest that it is more to do with governmental direction. The offer here of special help from the CES is not going to be a source of great joy when one considers the previous offer that was made to the officers of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. It has not meant anything to them yet. 
The offer of training assistance under the National Employment and Training scheme certainly could be valuable to the people who need to be retrained. We will have to await the outcome of that to assess whether it is worthwhile. The relocation assistance for employment also may be worthwhile, but I do make the point that it is not going to help the Maryborough-Hervey Bay district to have everyone move away from the area. I am sure that the people who live in the area want to stay there and would much prefer to have jobs created in the area rather than be offered a payment for being relocated somewhere else. This brings me to the point that the Government should be looking not only at the measures which have been mentioned by the Minister, which in my opinion are very thin, but also at the possibility of creating jobs in the area. It is not good enough just to talk about relocation and training assistance. The Government should be also looking at the possibility of creating jobs in that area either through direct expenditure by the Commonwealth Government and its encouraging the Queensland Government to do the same thing or by making some special assistance available either to relocate industry in that area or to assist other industry which is already there. I understand that there is not a great deal of industry right now in the Maryborough-Hervey Bay district. Either of those measures would be extremely helpful to the people who are going to lose their jobs, but nothing of that kind had been offered. 
In relation to the provision of assistance to industry, I recall that when the Australian Labor Party was in office there was the SANMA- the Special Assistance to Non-Metropolitan Areasscheme, which has died a natural death since we went out of office. It provided assistance to firms which were affected by structural adjustment. There is no reason why that sort of scheme could not be used to encourage firms to relocate in the Maryborough-Hervey Bay district or perhaps to assist a firm in that district which is struggling to provide more employment. But a much more imaginative approach than is outlined on the third page of the Minister's prepared statement is needed. If the Government is really concerned about looking after the people of the Maryborough-Hervey Bay district it can do a lot more. They can be given a lot more by way of income maintenance. They should be given a much better deal in terms of job creation. Having said that, I reiterate the point that the Opposition welcomes wholeheartedly the decision by the Government to adopt the Fraser Island report. The Opposition reservations are in respect of the miserly attitude that has been adopted towards those who are affected by the decision. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
My question which I address to the Prime Minister concerns an answer that he gave earlier today in which he said that some union officials did not represent the views of thenmembers. In view of that statement, will he explain to the House why the Government has amended the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in regard to the election of union officials so that rank and file ballots for the election of union officials are no longer compulsory. Is it the Prime Minister's attitude that union officials are likely to be made more responsive to the wishes of thenmembers if they never have to face a rank and file ballot? If not, will he concede that having allowed union executives to take away the right to rank and file ballots, he is now in no position to criticise union leaders for not reflecting the wishes of their members? 
My question, which is directed to you,  Mr Speaker,  refers to your action in writing a series of articles in the Melbourne  Herald  under the column heading of 'Billy Mackie', the latest of which was published last Tuesday and is headed 'Confrontation: Why the Government must win over the Unions'. The articles feature a photo of you in Speaker's wig and describe your position in this Parliament. Is such action by you contrary to the conventional role of Speakers in Parliaments that adhere to the Westminster system in that in your capacity as Speaker you are publicly advocating contentious political views? If so, will you explain to the House why you are departing from that convention? If you believe the writing of such articles to be not incompatible with your role as Speaker, will you at least consider vacating the Chair whenever matters are before the House in regard to which you as Speaker, have publicly expressed your views? 
-The Bills now before the House are not contentious and are not opposed by the Opposition. What they seek to do is to extend for another 6 months the temporary provisions that currently regulate the industry and to remove long service leave provisions for waterside workers from the Stevedoring Industry Act, thus enabling them to be covered by an award of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in accordance with the wishes of the parties to the industry. The need for the Government to seek yet another extension to the so-called temporary legislation, which has been in operation since 1967 or almost a decade, is that the Government has not been able since it last sought an extension of the legislation in May this year, to determine the new permanent arrangements under which this industry is to operate. Last May, after successive governments had grappled with the very difficult issues involved and after a number of inquiries, two of which were initiated by the Australian Labor Party Government, the current Government announced after consideration of the report of the second of Labor's 2 inquiriesthe Northrop report- that it had decided to free the industry from government involvement, to abolish the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and to establish a basis on which the industry could proceed as any other industry. 
It sought an extension of the temporary provisions for another 6 months, until 3 1 December this year, in which period it expected to be able to determine in association with the parties involved how the industry would operate in the future. As time passed and the Government made no further announcement, it became apparent that it was having some difficulty in extracting itself from its regulatory role. Indeed it is not apparent from the speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that that is the case. The Government has still to secure the acceptance of various arrangements by the parties to the industry, without which it says it will not withdraw from the industry. The most difficult issue to solve at present is that relating to surplus labour. The Minister says that this surplus is of the order of 1200 men and that the Government will not in any circumstances condone the existence of such a surplus when it is costing $20m per annum for idle time payments. He has therefore proposed that the parties should get together quickly to work out arrangements by which immediate separation of those stevedores aged 60 to 65 years could be achieved, thereby reducing the number of waterside workers by approximately 500 and then to further reduce the numbers in the lower age brackets. 
What this amounts to, of course, is compulsory retirement, and that is something which the waterside workers have refused to comtemplate since achieving permanency in 1967. However, they are well aware that there is now a substantial surplus and they are not now opposing the concept of compulsory retirement for those in the higher age brackets, so long as the terms on which they are retired are suitable. Hitherto the Waterside Workers Federation has agreed only to voluntary retirement but it is apparent to all that the rate of reduction in Federation members through this process will not achieve any dramatic reduction in numbers unless perhaps the retirement allowance for those who retire voluntarily is to be substantially increased. However, that is not in contemplation by any party to the industry, so the issue now concerns the terms on which compulsory retirement is to be agreed to. 
As I understand it, there seem to be reasonable grounds for optimism that such agreement will be reached. If, however, agreement is not reached and the Government tries to enforce compulsory retirement on conditions that are unacceptable to the waterside workers, we could very quickly find massive industrial disruption on the waterfront across Australia. Having achieved permanency after long and bitter struggles, the union would be likely to react strongly to any attempt to dilute that concept without Federation agreement. This is all the more true since the union maintains that there would be no problem of surplus labour now if it had not been forced to recruit in 1974 when the volume of imports and exports was very high. The Federation was most reluctant to take on increased numbers of stevedores at that time as it could see that with the prospects of a decline in trade in the future there would be pressure on it to reduce the numbers again and thus the very concept of permanency would be threatened. In the event, however, it was persuaded, under strong pressure from the stevedoring companies, to recruit more stevedores but the agreement was conditional on these additional recruits becoming permanent. 
In Sydney and Melbourne alone over 1000 men were recruited at that time. Since the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  puts the figure of surplus labour at present at about 1200, it can be seen that this excess labour is almost totally accounted for by the 1974 recruitment drive. It is ironic that soon after the recruitment drive the volume of trade fell with declining economic activity, both here and overseas, and idle time costs accelerated accordingly. Thus, the fears expressed by the union were soon brought to light. Furthermore, increased mechanisation of cargo handling and a continuing swing towards containers has accentuated the labour surplus problems. The situation remains then one in which the union has modified its approach to allow for compulsory retirement. Hopefully, a formula will be found that will enable this matter to be resolved without industrial disruption. While on this point, however, it is worth noting that even if all surplus labour is eliminated from the industry, idle time payments will still have to be made because of the very nature of this industry with its fluctuating work loads. When the Minister refers to idle time payments of $20m as being intolerable, he should understand that with no surplus labour at all idle time payments of several million dollars still have to be made. Therefore, the measure of the cost of surplus labour is well below $20m. 
Another matter that relates to the rearrangement of procedures in this industry and which should be mentioned in this debate concerns the Government's anxiety, as expressed by the Minister last May, to ensure that in vacating its regulatory role in the industry, the Government would still have the power to maintain and influence costs and efficiency in the industry through the application of the Prices Justification Tribunal and Trade Practices Commission. However, since then the Government has decided to modify the Prices Justification Act in such a way that the Tribunal will lose most of its effective power to have any control over the level of prices generally or in particular industries. The Government has also initiated a Committee of Inquiry into the Trade Practices Act. This Committee has recommended various changes that would weaken the powers ofthe Trade Practices Commission. Thus, the Government's reliance on these governmental bodies to limit inefficiency and excessive costs in the stevedoring industry, as claimed by the Minister last May, sits oddly with the Government's subsequent behaviour in weakening those very institutions on which it places reliance. Clearly the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission will be less capable of influencing costs in this industry in the future than they would have been if the legislation enacted by the Labor Government had been allowed to remain. 
Furthermore, the need for the Prices Justification Tribunal to keep a close watch on stevedoring company charges has been displayed vividly by the inquiry which it has initiated into the prices being charged by James Patrick and Co. Pty Ltd and its subsidiary, Patrick Operations Pty Ltd, whose operations extend to 8 ports on the east coast of Australia. This remarkable public inquiry began in October and soon revealed a massive profit rip-off and a bonanza for company directors. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Operating profit for the company for 1974-75 of $5.8m represented 580 per cent on paid-up capital, or 88 per cent on funds employed. The dividend payment that year was $1.20 for each $1 share. In addition, 5 directors shared $656,700 in directors emoluments which excluded further fees of $3,000 each. This was for the year 1974-75. The vast majority of this incredibly high remuneration to directors went to one man, the Managing Director of James Patrick and Co.,  Sir Reginald  Reed. The other fascinating aspect of this inquiry has been the revelation that apart from the enormous profits and directors emoluments, the company works on a cost-plus basis for its pricing policy which, amazingly, operates on the basis that as the business expands so profit margins should increase. The so-called logic for this policy is that the larger the business the larger the risk. 
The success of this pricing policy from the company's point of view is clear from its exceptional profitability. The impact of this policy on the rest of the economy which pays for this company 's excess profits through higher prices for various products is difficult to quantify but certainly it is very important to disclose such profiteering. Without the Prices Justification Tribunal operating as it has under the Labor Government's legislation, we would never have known of this profiteering. Accordingly, the Opposition is greatly concerned that the substantial weakening of the Prices Justification Tribunal will mean that such exposures are unlikely to occur in the future and that the ability of the Government to ensure that excessive costs are not foisted on the Australian public by rapacious stevedoring companies will be lost. 
I want to mention the position of the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority who are vitally affected by the Government's proposed scrapping of its direct regulatory role in this industry. The Authority is to be disbanded and the staff of about 220, who are scattered throughout Australia in the various ports, are all to lose their jobs. As practically all of them are not members of the Australian Public Service, they do not have automatic right of transfer to other Public Service jobs. Accordingly, they have been greatly concerned at the Government's intended action. They all received 6 months initial warning of likely dismissal in July this year and they were led to believe, as we were all led to believe, that the Authority would cease to function as of 31 December this year. After some negotiations on redundancy agreements, an agreement was settled which was reasonably satisfactory to the staff of the Stevedoring Industry Authority, but the uncertainty of not knowing precisely when the axe would fall has provided understandable difficulties for them. It was accepted as part of that redundancy agreement that no one would leave for 3 months but that after that time they would be free to go to other employment while retaining the full redundancy benefits. 
In fact, however, some staff members who found other jobs were refused permission to leave after the 3 months had expired. That, coupled with the problem of not knowing whether the Authority would cease operation at the end of this year or at some later date, led to growing unrest amongst the staff. However, with the Minister's statement to the House a fortnight ago and his subsequent discussions with staff representatives, the air has been cleared. Staff members have been told that those who obtain an alternative job will be released wherever possible and that the Authority will almost certainly cease operations at the end of June 1977. The initial warning of likely retrenchment has, in fact, been extended to 26 June 1977. Nevertheless, the Government deserves criticism for not keeping the Authority's staff well informed of its intentions and its progress in establishing the new arrangements, thereby causing unnecessary traumas and anxiety to the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. In conclusion, I note that there are still many difficulties for the Government and the parties to the industry to overcome in establishing the new basis of operation in the industry and in establishing transition arrangements that do not disrupt the working of the industry. Hopefully for all concerned these difficulties will be satisfactorily resolved and we will accordingly not need to debate again for the umpteenth time a Bill to extend the temporary provisions that have applied to the industry for a decade. 
-Two ofthe Bills now before the House provide improvements to long service leave benefits, or furlough as it is otherwise known, for Australian Government employees. The other Bill relates to the quite different matter of establishing a separate Public Service for the Northern Territory. The Opposition does not oppose any of these Bills. 
Firstly I should like to refer to the long service leave Bills. The Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1976 provides for a number of improvements in long service leave benefits all of which were proposed in a Bill last year by the Labor Government. That Bill was introduced into the House in May last year. It was not proceeded with before Labor's untimely removal from office. There is, however, one important difference between Labor's Bill and that Bill now before the House which I will explain later. It is appropriate at this time to note that the need to improve the long service leave entitlement of Australian Government employees in recent years has been a matter of agreement on both sides of the House to some extent, although not in every respect. Before Labor came into office in 1972, the McMahon Government proposed a number of improvements to the furlough provisions, although the timing of it made it suspiciously look like an election gimmick. On 26 October 1 972- only a week before the issuing of the writs for the Federal election that year, the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  issued a Press release which, in part, read: 
The Public Service Board has reviewed (long service leave) provisions for Commonwealth officers and employees, having regard to various representations, including those from staff associations. The Government has approved the Board's recommendations for a number of legislative amendments. These include: Reduction ofthe basic Qualifying period from IS to 10 years; provision for furlough to be made a right; payment to the estate of a deceased officer or employee where there are no dependants; extension of furlough to part-time employees; recognition for furlough purposes of prior services to local governing bodies. 
Of course, no legislation to implement these conditions was passed in the following week before the issuing of the writs so, it then rested with the Labor Government to implement such improvements. Labor's policy called for improvements in long service leave for Australian Government employees. In pursuance of that policy the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  announced in April 1973 that the Government intended to legislate for a considerable number of improvements which included all those proposed by  Mr McMahon  but added a number of others. The new items which were included in 

 Mr Whitlam 's Press release of 3 April 1973 were: 
Removal of all provisions which provide a furlough penalty to an officer or employee because of conduct record or dismissal . . . anc? new accrual rate of 3 months for the first 10 years and one-half month per year thereafter. 
Removal of the provision for payment in lieu of furlough on resignation due to domestic or other pressing necessity. 
Payment in lieu of furlough based on completed months in respect of a partly completed year of service. 
Removal of the 12 months limitation on the period of furlough which may be granted at any one time . . . 
Recognition of leave without pay granted to officers or employees under Section 7 1 ( 1 ) (a) of the Public Service Act to accept employment as staff association officers as qualifying service for furlough purposes with the Commonwealth being liable only for Commonwealth service proper. 
In his Press release, he also stated: 
All improvements to be available to officers and employees who were in Commonwealth employment on or after 1 January 1973. 
This was a much more comprehensive list of proposals than that which had been announced by  Mr McMahon.  Following this statement of intent, legislation eventually was introduced at the end of 1973 to implement some of these provisions. The benefits were passed by the Parliament- without debate, I might add- at that time. They were, firstly, a reduction of the qualifying period from 15 years to 10 years; secondly, removal of long service leave penalties associated with unsatisfactory service or misconduct; thirdly, elimination of provision for payment in lieu of furlough on resignation due to domestic or other pressing necessity. 
In December 1974 Cabinet approved legislation to introduce the various other amendments foreshadowed in the April 1973 statement of intent but with a few revisions. The original proposal to allow payment in lieu of furlough after 5 years service on cessation for any reason was discarded and a few new provisions were added. These were the revision of the definition of 'authority of State' to reduce the need to specify bodies in regulations which was purely a machinery matter; provision that no leave without pay breaks continuity of service and the employing authority, or the Board, may determine whether leave counts as service; no form of full time post-defence forces service vocational training scheme breaks continuity of service; absence due to ill health from any relevant service for furlough purposes does not break continuity; and exclusion from the legislation of locally engaged staff overseas, other than those employed before the amending legislation. 
It was also stated again that these improvements would apply from 1 January 1973. In May 1975 a Bill to implement these substantial proposals was introduced into the House. As I have already indicated, the Bill had not been passed before the Opposition blocked supply and eventually seized office. The long service leave Bill now before the House incorporates all of the provisions of the 1975 Bill with one exception; that is the increase in the accrual rate for long service leave entitlement after 10 years service from one-third of a month to one-half a month a year. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  says that such an improvement would have set an unduly generous standard which could lead to pressure on other employers to match it. In fact, however, the standard for Commonwealth Government employees at present is one of the lower levels of furlough entitlement for Government employees in this country. Three States provide a higher rate of accumulation of long service leave entitlement than the Commonwealth. They are New South Wales, Western Australia and Queensland. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which sets out a comparison of cumulative totals of furlough entitlements for the various State public services, the Commonwealth Public Service, and those provided for in the 1975 Bill. 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  accused the Opposition of losing touch with reality. I suggest that his own statement, that the irresponsible action of a few trade union officials was preventing economic recovery in this country, shows how much out of touch with reality this Government has become. The fact is that, despite the Minister's protestations, in the period it has been in office this Government has engaged in a campaign of denigration and vilification of at least part of the trade union movement. In fact, when the Government talks about only a few people being involved, usually it is accusing the trade union movement of action which encompasses many more than just a few people. The Newport project dispute, to which I will come later, is a good example of that. 
Firstly, let me say that even before this Government came to power its members ran a campaign of vilification against trade union officials. They concentrated on a few unions, such as the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, and said that the leaders were unrepresentative of their unions because they were elected by a very small proportion of the membership. The sheer cynicism of the action of Government members in that regard has been shown by what has happened this year. The Government, having provided for compulsory secret postal ballots for the election of union officials, found that that legislation had endangered the tenure of office of some ultra right wing officials. The Government then passed legislation to allow union officials to be elected by an amazingly small proportion of their union membership. For instance, approximately 0.02 per cent of the membership now can elect the officials of unions which decide to adopt the collegiate system. The sheer cynicism of the Government's action in this regard has been amply displayed. 
Members of the Government Parties have blamed the union movement for various problems existing today. The Minister has mentioned some of them in this debate. For instance, in regard to the economy there is no doubt that the Government has tried to use the union movement as a whipping boy for its failure to get the economy going. We heard that claim from the Minister who preceded me. In regard to wage indexation, the Government, having broken its promise to support wage indexation, has attacked the trade union movement for not accepting a form of wage indexation which would mean drastic cuts in the real wage levels of workers. To expect the trade union movement to support drastic cuts in the real level of wages is absolutely absurd, particularly given the Government's initial promise. Yet, that is the line that the Government has pursued. 
The same can be said with respect to strikes. The Government has tried to pretend that strikes have been so high that this has been a problem in regard to economic recovery in this country. The fact is that, with the exception of the various strikes on the Medibank issue, with which I will deal in a moment, the number of strikes in Australia this year has been extraordinarily low. In the first 7 months of this year, excluding Medibank strikes, the number of working days lost has been 56 per cent less than the number of working days lost last year. So, Medibank strikes excepted, there has been a much lower level of strike activity. The Government cannot blame that level of strike action for the problems that it has in regard to the economy. 
It is true that strikes have been held on the Medibank issue. On one day, some 2 million working days were lost. Overall, the number of working days lost this year is slightly in excess of what it was in the period up to August last year. Nevertheless, the fact remains that only 4 per cent of all strikes have been politically motivated or motivated by sociological reasons such as environmental issues. The number of working days lost this year is only fractionally higher than the number lost last year. Let us put this into context and compare it with losses being caused to the economy through unemployment. If the Government were able to put another 100 000 people back to work it would have achieved 14 million extra working days in the course of the first 7 months of this year. As against that there have been 1.2 million working days lost through strikes apart from the Medibank strike. If we include the Medibank strike the figure is just over 3 million. That puts the losses to the economy into context. Losses to the economy from strikes are minor when compared with losses through unemployment. 
Then the Government has blamed the unions for the destruction of particular industries, particularly the ship building industry. In its denigration it ignored the union's actions in relation to the shipbuilding industry and it continually ignored the basic problems which that industry is having internationally, such as the problems of low prices from the Japanese which are causing tremendous difficulties in the shipbuilding industry in Western Europe. It also ignores the paucity of new investment in the industry in this country and the fact that the industry is operating on a one off or two off basis all the time without specialisation. These factors are very important in relation to productivity but they get practically no mention from Ministers who discuss the shipbuilding industry in this country. Their whole emphasis is on eliminating strikes. In fact over the past year or so the unions have gone a long way towards eliminating strikes and stoppages in the shipbuilding industry. Demarcation disputes have virtually disappeared. Again the Government is using the unions as an excuse for problems that it has in that industry. 
Denigrating union motives in other disputes such as the Newport power station dispute has also been popular with this Government. In fact the actions of the unions in placing bans on Newport have not resulted from the actions of a few. They have been the result of the action of a majority of delegates to the Trades Hall Council in Melbourne, not some small unrepresentative group of militants but a majority of the unionsjust a majority admittedly, but a majority. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations have said that the motivation of the unions is political. Patently that is untrue. The unions' motivation in this dispute has been utterly altruistic. Their motivation principally has been one of the environment but there are also other issues, as the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  mentioned, such as town planning and resources. 
If we look at the environmental issues just briefly we can see why the unions are so concerned. There is a great amount of evidence about now regarding the poisonous level of the atmosphere in Melbourne. If we look at the history of the granting of the licence for the power station in Newport we can see that in fact the Government pressured the Environmental Protection Authority and the Appeals Board in a way which enabled the Newport power station to be given the okay. The fact is that after the first decision by the Environmental Protection Authority the State Electricity Commission appealed it. Because the limits set were too tight conservation bodies appealed it as well. When the matter went to the Environmental Protection Authority Appeal Board the Board increased the allowable limits for ozone in the atmosphere so that the power station could get a licence. To give the House an idea of the enormous increase, it provided a standard of 1 3 parts per 100 million for ozone in the atmosphere compared with 6 parts per 100 million laid down by the World Health Organisation and 8 parts per 100 million laid down by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. So there is no doubt that the Appeal Board lifted the standard to provide a licence for the power station because it was pressured very hard by the Victorian Government. Through those cases the State Electricity Commission said that it would build the station whatever happened at the inquiry. 
Whilst those inquiries were going on the Victorian Government let contracts worth $100m relating to Newport despite the fact that it did not have environmental approval. Then it said that if the unions did not let the project go ahead $100m would be wasted. It is the fault of that government because it took quite precipitate action in letting those contracts before it had environmental approval. 
The fact is that the Newport power station dispute is only representative of what is a developing trend in this country and the rest of the western capitalist world- that unions are increasingly concerned not only with straight industrial issues such as wages and conditions of employment but workers, through their unions, are becoming increasingly concerned about what they do with their labour. They want to be involved in management decision making and they are challenging managerial prerogatives. That is one very substantial development in worker participation. It is not just happening in this country but is happening right across the western capitalist world. 
This raises the issue of whether we believe that workers should have the right, either individually or collectively, to withhold their labour from projects which they believe are contrary to the best interests of society. This Australian Government denies them that right, as indeed do all the conservative governments in this country. The Victorian Government denies it to the point where it has introduced and passed legislation which virtually amounts to civil conscription. It has said that workers who will not work on vital State projects, as it declares them, can be fined; that people who oppose such projects can be fined. This is a form of civil conscription. It is opposed strongly by the Labor movement, the Australian Labor Party and the Opposition in this Parliament. It goes totally against the evolving role of unions and extends beyond their conventional industrial issues. The answer to all this is to extend the role of unions to allow them to be involved in the planning process. No one wants this confrontation at the end after a decision has been made and investment has been made. The project then has to be blocked by union decision. It is better if workers are involved in the planning process at the very outset. That is proper worker participation in management and governments eventually will have to abide by it 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question which is directed to the Treasurer refers to the Government's latest exercise in exchange rate yo-yo. Does the 2 per cent revaluation not mean that the original decision to devalue by 17Vi per cent was excessive? If not, will the Treasurer explain to the House why a revaluation has now become necessary only 9 days after a devaluation? Will the Treasurer also give the House an assurance that the currency will not be further revalued or devalued before the weather changes? 
-The Bills before the House raise important issues of protection policy in this country. I hope to be able to put them into a little more perspective. It seems to me that the first point to make is that the protective effect of the devaluation of 17V per cent was equal to an 80 per cent increase in tariffs, which is a mammoth increase and which certainly creates a new situation for protection in this country. However, it is important also that the statement in relation to tariff cuts made by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  yesterday does very little to reduce that very substantial increase in protection. The overall effect is equivalent to a  VA  per cent across-the-board cut in tariffs if we take for gospel what is reported in this morning's Press as coming from Government sources. On the Opposition's quick analysis, that would seem to be something like the case. Taken with the subsequent 2 per cent revaluation, there has now been a reduction in that 80 per cent increase in protection to a 70 per cent increase in protection -still a very substantial increase in protection in the last couple of weeks. The reason for not doing more is said to be the need to restore the competitive position of industry. I think this is a crucial issue and I will come to it in a moment. 
However, I should like to make a point about the difficulties created by exchange rate fluctuations of which we have had 2 notable examples in the last couple of weeks. Firstly, it makes the job of the Industries Assistance Commission extraordinarily difficult. How can it possibly decide on what are the appropriate levels of protection when the exchange rate is jumping up and down the way it has done in the last couple of weeks? It is an impossible situation. I suggest to the Government that it virtually has made the job of the IAC almost impossible in terms of providing any rational basis for tariff setting in this country. We are told that the exchange rate will move quite frequently in the future- I suggest that it certainly will and in that case the job of the IAC becomes amazingly difficult. 
Further, the Government also has created a situation in which there is uncertainty in business. This goes directly against what this Government has been saying from the time it achieved office was its fundamental aim. I said it would create an environment in which business could be certain about what was going to happen. It could look forward and plan on the basis of certain government policies. What it can look forward now is continuing changes in the rate of exchange and, therefore, continuing changes in protection policy in this country. That will do anything but create certainty and the kind of environment in which there will be substantial investment. I suggest that the exchange rate is likely to continue to alter frequently in the near future. The reason for that is that there has occurred a fundamental structural change which cannot be offset by devaluation. 
This Government is attempting the impossible. It is attempting to offset a loss of competitiveness which is due not to increased wages in the main, as the Government contends, but mainly to revaluations which cannot be offset by subsequent devaluations. I will substantiate that thesis in the 7 minutes I have left to speak. When this Government decided to devalue it did so because it said that we had a loss of competitiveness. The loss of competitiveness was due to a revaluation which was brought about by the Labor Government in 1972-73. Those revaluations were absolutely essential if we were to bring the balance of payments into equilibrium. 
I remind honourable members that when the Labor Party took office we had a situation in which the money supply was increasing at an extraordinary rate. Overseas reserves were increasing amazingly. They more than doubled in 1972 when Labor was not in office. The effect of that was that there were very substantial implications for the money supply. In the last 6 months of 1972 the money supply increased by 17 per cent- an annual rate of 34 per cent. The reason for that was the speculative inflow of funds which were coming in on the basis that there would have to be a revaluation. That speculation, in turn, was brought about by the fact that the balance of payments had been continually moving into a more excess situation in the late 1960s and early 1970s and that, in turn, was due to the fact that the mining industry in Australia was bringing about a total transformation of the structure of industry in this countrysomething about which this Government seems to have no concept. The fact is that in the period 1964-65 to 1970-71, mining exports increased from 9 per cent of total exports to 26 per cent of total exports- a phenomenal increase in such a short period. That brought about a fundamental change in the structure of our balance of payments which had to be affected eventually by some change in the exchange rate. 
In case it is suggested that revaluation was not the basic cause of the change of competitiveness, I suggest that honourable members should examine the IAC annual report for 1975-76. When referring to the period 1970-71 to 1975-76 at page 25 of that report, the Commission states: 
Most of the decline in competitiveness was caused by the exchange rate appreciation, which reflected general developments in the economy. 
I suggest that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs would be well occupied in studying that section of the report. At page 26 of that report there are tables which analyse the loss of competitiveness in that period from 1970-71 to 1975-76. It shows that there was a 17 per cent loss of competitiveness in that period. If honourable members examine the tables in the report they will see that there is a breakdown of the 17 per cent to which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  referred in his speech, as did the Minister. The Minister was deceitful in that he suggested that the loss of competitiveness was mainly a cause of wages. If he had studied this report produced by a section of his own Department, he would have seen that of that 17 per cent, 2 per cent was due to a higher inflation rate in Australia compared to our trading partners; 4 per cent was due to the across the board tariff cut; and 1 1 per cent- by far the major proportionwas due to revaluation of the currency. We are looking at a situation in which we have suffered a loss of competitiveness due to a revaluation. That revaluation is the major cause of that loss. Wage increases and tariff cuts represent a relatively minor part. That is absolutely crucial to protection policy and exchange rate policy right now. 
The Government seems to have no concept of what it is about and does not seem even to read its own IAC reports. It is quite impossible to offset the adverse effects of a necessary revaluation by a subsequent devaluation. We all know about the adverse effects. Firstly, in the rural sector I hope that members of the National Country Party are listening- the adverse effect of revaluation is that the returns that the farmers get for their exports are reduced and therefore they are worse off. Manufacturers are worse off because import prices are lowered and they are much more vulnerable to import competition. We cannot offset that by a devaluation. If we try to do it by devaluation we create balance of payments disequilibrium again and that balance of payments disequilibrium will bring about fundamental changes in this economy, which will take us back to 1 97 1 -72. Then we will have monetary problems which eventually will bring about the need for balance of payments revaluation again. 
This has happened already. Only 9 days after the first devaluation we had a revaluation. I forecast now that further revaluations are absolutely inevitable. I say that because this devaluation was quite excessive. It was aimed at trying to compensate for revaluation, which in turn is the result of the unplanned and extraordinary growth of the mining industry bringing about a fundamental change in our balance of payments. We simply cannot ignore that fact, but apparently the Government is doing so. 
If we try to offset the money supply problems and a direct inflationary stimulus which comes from a devaluation, which was brought about to try to offset the effects of a revaluation, we find that we have to take various measures. For instance, we have to impose a credit squeeze. Let us not mess about with terms such as 'credit restrictions'; there has to be a credit squeeze because our balance of payments will be in disequilibrium. That means that we will get a steady build-up of overseas reserves through the process of the balance of trade being continually in excess and also because of capital inflow. Eventually it will generate even more capital inflow on a speculative basis. That might already be occurring. So we will have this inrush of money and we will have to offset it somehow. If we do not change the exchange rate we will have to continually tighten credit internally. The result of that will be that the recessionary processes will be generated internally, which will create greater and greater unemployment. That is not the way out, and it cannot last. It will not last, because no government can afford to have it last. 
Another option might be to squeeze wages, but that will not work either. Squeezing wages, if we can do it, will keep inflation down, but it will not overcome the monetary problem and eventually that is going to break out. We just cannot do it if our money supply is continually building up. The only real alternative is to revalue or to slash tariffs. If we revalue we will take away some of the advantage we have given the rural sector and will take away some of the competitive advantage we have given the manufacturing sector. If we slash tariffs the whole burden of restructuring the balance of payments to get it into equilibrium falls on the manufacturing industry. What all this comes back to is the fact that we just cannot overcome the adverse effects of a revaluation, which is the consequence of a build-up of the mining industry bringing about big structural changes in our economy, by devaluing. It is just not on. We are fooling ourselves if we believe that we can do it. We are fooling ourselves if we believe that the loss of competitiveness is due to our high rate of inflation. The IAC report says that it is not so. 
The efforts that this Government is now making to foster another mining boom should horrify people in the National Country Party. If we do have another mining boom it will mean that we will build up $7,000m worth of projects which have been approved by the Foreign Investment Review Board to come into this country, mainly mining projects. If that happens our balance of payments will move further into excess and we will have to have further revaluations- and that will be very damaging to the National Country Party. Members of that Party must understand that the unplanned excessive growth of the mining industry is a disaster for farmers. They are doing them no favour whatever by supporting that sort of policy. In fact they are bringing about the destruction of the very people they say they are here to represent. The same is true of those people on the Government side who say that they are here to represent manufacturing industry. The Government will destroy manufacturing industry if it brings about another mining boom. Already they have to pay for the effects of the first one. If the Government brings about another one, it will drive the rural sector and the manufacturing sector further into disaster. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Motion- by leave- withdrawn. 
-It is symbolic that while the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during this debate was telling the country what good shape the economy was in the lights in the chamber blinked off. I think that would have reminded everyone in the chamber of the election slogan of the Liberal-National Country parties at the last election, namely, to turn the lights on. It is abundantly clear to everyone in the country that the lights have not been turned on. In fact, the nation is stumbling around in the dark while the Government keeps hollering how bright the economy really is. The fact is that the Prime Minister and, in particular, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  during their contributions to the debate indulged in an exercise in selfdelusion. This retreat from reality is indicative of a government in disarray. An example of this is the way in which statistics are used, the way in which statistics are distorted, the way in which they are not presented, the way in which they are suppressed or the way in which they are dismissed. 
For instance, the unemployment figures have been distorted. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  reports the highest unemployment figures in our recorded history as showing stability in employment. The consumer price index figures have been delayed, as has been mentioned. The seasonally adjusted unemployment figures have been suppressed. We have the seasonally adjusted employment figures but do not have the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures any more because the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has seen fit not to produce them. The Government's latest exercise has been the dismissal of the consumer price index. In this debate the Treasurer dismissed the consumer price index as not really being a relevant guide to inflation. This one indicator which has been generally accepted by all people in this country as an indicator of inflation is now taken by the Treasurer to be merely an incidental item which records price movements for a specifically confined set of goods and services and therefore not to be taken notice of. This action is indicative of a government which is desperate to suppress the real situation. 
Perhaps the Government is trying to convince itself that things are not so bad, but I am sure that many honourable members on the Government back benches are fully aware of just how bad the situation is. Indeed those who are pressing for tax cuts are clearly aware of the problems that we have in this country. The facts are that the Government has failed abjectly in achieving its economic goals, particularly in relation to inflation since this is the one on which the Government has placed the most emphasis. We have been told that the achievement of a lower rate of inflation is basic to the Government's economic policy, but in the first 3 quarters of 1976 the movement in the consumer price index was only 0. 1 per cent less than in the same period in 1975 when the Australian Labor Party was in office. So effectively there is no change. The Treasurer's claim of a steady and considerable underlying improvement in the rate of inflation is a sheer exercise in self delusion, particularly as he admitted in Tokyo that in the future we will see a much increased rate of inflation. As he said, in the next 3 quarters there will be a substantial rise in the rate of inflation. So in no way can one possibly argue that there has been a steady or considerable underlying improvement in the rate of inflation. To do so would be an exercise in self delusion. 
Furthermore, the Bureau or Agricultural Economics, a government agency, has thrown a spotlight on to the real situation. Recently it estimated that inflation in 1976-77 will be 12 per cent to 15 per cent. That compares with 12.3 per cent in the previous financial year. So there is no improvement. In fact it is likely that there is a substantial deterioration. We have had only a 2.2 per cent increase so far this financial year. That means therefore that there is 10 per cent to 13 per cent to come. 
-What the Government back benchers and in particular the honourable member for Bendigo ought to realise is that all this will happen in the next 5 months. We will have a recorded increase in inflation of 10 per cent to 13 per cent in the next 5 months. The December quarter figures will be available soon, the March quarter figures will be available 2 months later, and 3 months later we will have the June figures. I ask honourable members opposite to realise that that is the situation. It is ridiculous for them to delude themselves into thinking that the Government is on top of the inflation situation. 
The same applies to unemployment. The highest recorded figures for unemployment in our history have been shown by the Commonwealth Employment Service, despite the disincentives to register, which I do not have time to mention. Also we have had hidden unemployment. The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  said that at least the Government had achieved stability in the employment market. The fact is that there has been a massive drop in the participation rate in the labour force. If he looks at the work force figures he will see that the work force participation rate dropped by a very substantial 1 . 1 per cent in the last year. If it had been maintained at the November 1975 rate there would be another 100 000 people in the work force. What that means is that there has been a substantial dropout of people from the work force because they cannot get jobs. The facts are not shown in the unemployment figures. People have dropped right out of the employment market. 
The same is true for the employment figures for wage and salary earners. The total number went up by 4700 from November 1975 to November 1976. In private employment they are 2000 down; so there is no improvement there either. If one looks at overall economic recovery, despite some growth shown in the national accounts one sees widespread pessimism in business and consumer circles. Recent surveys by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research and Morgan Research showed that the pessimism of businesses and consumers had increased and is now long term. In other words, it is deep seated and it will take a long time to get over it, and that is very important to what is going to happen to this economy in the future. The Australian Chamber of Commerce and the National Bank found in a recent survey that business was pessimistic about the coming months and was more pessimistic than 3 months earlier. So there is no optimism in business or consumer circles. The only optimism lies in the statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Government spokesmen in this exercise of selfdelusion. The facts relating to the basic economic indicators do not support the optimism of Government spokesmen, nor indeed are they supported by the Government's back bench, which is clamouring for tax cuts. 
Apart from its abysmal failure to achieve its policy objectives, there are other bases for criticism of the Government's performance. Chief among these is the sheer inconsistency of the Government's policy. While asserting continually that a reduction in the rate of inflation is its basic objective, the Government has taken action which will substantially increase the rate of inflation. For instance, the Medibank changes will add 2 per cent to the rate of inflation- a Government induced increase. Devaluation has been estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to add 4 per cent to the rate of inflation. So there we have direct Government actions -actions by a Government that says its basic objective is to reduce the rate of inflation- which have added 6 per cent to the rate of inflation. What will this do to inflationary expectations? What will it do to the income expectations of people who see their real incomes being slashed? What will it do to the expectations of consumers faced with a dramatic increase in inflation? We all know that in the past a big increase in inflation has been one factor which has inhibited people from spending. It is totally irresponsible and absolutely unforgiveable for the Government to take these actions, which are so inconsistent with its announced policy. 
The Government's devaluation-revaluation exercise was another exercise in inconsistency. A massive devaluation was followed by 8 revaluations which made us a laughing stock in international monetary circles. The Treasurer said that this was just the exercise of the European managed float. What a nonsense that was. That must have had them really rolling in the aisles in other countries. The fact is that those revaluations constituted action by the Reserve Bank to try to undo some of the damage that had been done by the absurd action of this Government in bringing in a massive 17 per cent devaluation. The Reserve Bank tried to undo it by the process of the float. Then we had the suspension of quarterly company tax payments. The quarterly company tax payments were introduced by the Labor Government and suspended by this Government. It then reintroduced them, when it was too late, because they were a substantial factor in the very considerable outflow of funds which preceded devaluation. I suppose that Government members are aware of the fact that many companies, which were very liquid because the Government suspended quarterly tax payments, got their money out of the country when devaluation was in the air and thereby added to the likelihood of devaluation occurring. 
So the Government produced a devaluation by its own absurd policy anyway. 
The Government has said that a reduction in inflation is basic to economic recovery, but then it took action which it claimed was intended to reduce inflation but which accentuated the recession. That again is contradictory. For instance, it has slashed Government expenditure in real terms by at least 4 per cent this financial year, and that is a recessionary factor. A substantial cut in demand like that must have recessionary effects on the economy. The same is true of the slashing of real wages. Demand must be reduced if that is done. The same is true of credit restrictions. Now because of devaluation the Government is locked into an economic policy which means it has to accentuate those 3 areas of policy. It has to accentuate the cuts in Government expenditure, it has to pursue a policy of cutting real wages even further, and it is tightening credit restrictions because of the massive inflow of capital following the devaluation. The whole policy is a contradictory absurdity. 
This Government is also deserving of condemnation for its callous indifference to the plight of the unemployed. As the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  said, no  speaker  on the Government side expressed any great interest in the fact of unemployment or in the plight of the unemployed. Certainly the Treasurer and the Prime Minister said practically nothing about it. They treated it as though it was no problem at all. I do not suppose it is a problem if one is on their salary, but it certainly is if one is unemployed. There was not one hint of concern or compassion from those speakers in this debate and I think that that in itself is condemnation. Their lack of concern and compassion for the unemployed is shown up by the Government's refusal to introduce job creation programs. Government supporters have spurned those programs despite the fact that they promised them in their employment policy before the last general election. They specifically promised to introduce relief work projects in periods of high unemployment. Government supporters specifically promised that but the Government has not brought them in. It could well be that the Government thinks that unemployment is not high- that 6 per cent is not a high unemployment figure. Maybe that is the reason, but I would think that anyone else who looks at the Government's policy would think that its supporters were breaking their election promises by not introducing job creation programs. The Prime Minister castigated them as artificial work programs but previous Liberal-Country Party governments have had such policies. They had them in 1961, in 1967 and in 1971. Why does this Government not have them now when there is the worst unemployment in the post-war period of this country? Other manpower programs, which are fairly token, have been introduced. I do not have time to describe them but they have certainly not by any means covered the array of effective manpower policies that could and should be introduced in this country. 
Then we have the blatant inequity of this Government's policies. It sought to reduce real wages so as to increase profit share and reduce inflation. It succeeded in reducing real wages. They fell in 1976 and profits rose strongly because they took part of the wage earners share and they also took all of the productivity increase. Profits rose by 39 per cent in the September quarter so profits are strongly up at the expense of the wage and salary earners in this country. But this Government says that that is not enough. It wants to restore the company share of profits to its normal historical level despite the fact that the economy is now in a most abnormal state. This Government wants the normal level for profits at a time when the economy is very abnormally recessed. That is an economic absurdity. If the Government does get this it is going to maintain a recession for a very long time because by cutting real wages so much it will dampen demand. 
The fact is that the company share of profits is close to its normal level even now as indicated by the Department of Industry and Commerce in its recent quarterly survey of manufacturing industry. In after tax terms companies are doing very well. On income being earned this financial year they will save $ 1,000m in tax concessions. Company tax has been effectively cut by one-third. In after tax terms, companies are being treated very well indeed. The recession is being made very comfortable for business, but one must contrast that with the position of the wage and salary earners. Further cuts in real wages are now basic to the Government's policy especially for its antiinflationary purposes. This is because of Medibank and devaluation in particular. The Government's own actions in accentuating inflation have made it imperative for it now to slash real wages to pay for its own stupidity. 
Having refused a tax trade-off as a means of reducing the inflationary effect of wage increases whilst maintaining the living standards of the wage and salary earners the Government is now headed for a confrontation situation as it seeks to  slash real wages even further. As part of that policy the Government is now arming itself with a far more extensive array of powers to suppress the incomes and the rights of the wage and salary earners and their trade unions than any Government has ever contemplated in the history of this country. The proposal to establish an industrial relations bureau and the legislation now before the House in relation to the Trade Practices Act, which in fact would cover about 95 per cent of trade union activity, are the most extensive powers that any government has ever sought to control unions and employees in this country or restrict their rights to organise. Having chopped off or rejected all the other policy options this fumbling, inept, inconsistent callous government is embarked on a path to reduce the living standards of a vast majority of Australians in 1977 and to risk massive industrial confrontation in the process and it surely deserves the loss of the support of this House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr E. G. Whitlam's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-The Bill now before the House introduces a formalised system of appointment of First Division officers in the Public Service. It prescribes ways in which some permanent heads can be removed from their position and it prescribes limited tenure of office for some permanent heads. An interesting aspect of this legislation is that the Government has found it necessary to introduce it at aU. In so doing it has gone beyond the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration- the Coombs Commissionwhich concluded that such legislation would be unnecessarily inhibiting. One must then ask: Why is the Government introducing this legislation which the royal commission which studied Australian Government administration said was not necessary? The answer seems to be that before the royal commission reported in 1976 the present Prime Minster  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised in November 1975, that is, in a pre-election period, that such legislation would be put before the Parliament by a Liberal-National Country Party government. This, of course, was in the context of making political mileage by asserting that the Labor Government had in some way or other transgressed proprieties by appointing as permanent heads a few highly qualified and competent persons who had been associated with the Labor Party. Thus the Government's motivation for this legislation is political rather than based on practical requirements. For that reason, if for no other, it is opposed by the Opposition. In fact, there are many aspects of this legislation that we find disagreeable and which provide a further basis for our opposition. The Public Service Act as it now stands enables permanent heads to be appointed on the recommendation of the Public Service Board or, alternatively, they may be appointed by the Governor-General without reference to the Board. In practice the Prime Minister and the Minister of the department concerned consult the Board and recommendations are subject to Cabinet approval before being submitted to the Governor-General. At least that is the way things operated until the Fraser Administration took over. I cannot say for sure whether that practice is still being followed. 
The Royal Commission recommended that a set procedure be adopted which would still have left the power of appointment finally to Cabinet as has been the practice. It recommended that the vacancy be first advertised; that a panel be nominated by the Prime Minister and the Minister concerned, after consulting the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board to nominate a short list of suitable persons; that Ministers have the right to nominate a potential appointee for consideration by the panel; that the  Chairman  provide a short list in order of preference of potential appointees to the Minister concerned and the Prime Minister; and that the Minister and Cabinet approve the ultimate selection. It also recommended that these procedures should be used to review existing appointments of all departmental heads who had served as head of a department for more than 5 years. It was strongly of the opinion that 5 to 7 years was quite long enough for a departmental head to serve without review of his position and that in general he should be relocated in another department after that time. 
The Bill now before the House, however, ignores these sensible recommendations. Instead it introduces a formalised system that is a bureaucrat's dream. Indeed, there can be no doubt that this Bill has been drawn by the First Division officers in such a way as to maximise their own security and preserve their power. It introduces a 2-tier system of permanent heads in which the bottom tier will consist very much of the poor relations. At the upper level there are to be established candidates or established permanent heads who will almost invariably be career public servants and who will enjoy the advantage of security of tenure. On the lower level there will be non-established candidates or officers who will have no more than a 5-year appointment and who will be subject to dismissal on a change of government. These officers will be those who will be appointed although not endorsed by what the Prime Minister described in his second reading speech as 'due process'. That term 'due process' is a complete misnomer, in our view. The Bill lays down a procedure for nominating persons as being suitable for appointment as a permanent head and it is that procedure which the Prime Minister describes as due process'. This gives it far more respectability than the procedure is entitled to receive. 
The procedure is drawn up so as to institutionalise what we may describe as the old boy network. It gives the power of selection formally and definitely to those who usually exercise it already. It does this by providing that where a vacancy occurs the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board shall make a report to the Prime Minister as to suitable candidates and that in addition, after consulting the Prime Minister, he shall appoint a committee to prepare a report on suitable persons for that vacancy. The other members of the committee must be permanent heads too, thus ensuring that it is all kept in the club. It is open to this committee of top level public servants to recommend a non-public servant as being suitable for the position but in practice such a committee will rarely, in the vast majority of cases, do other than protect its own by appointing someone from within its exclusive circle or someone it feels would fit comfortably within that circle, who is most likely to be a public servant. It is in our view a major weakness of this Bill that although it implicitly concedes that outsiders may have something to offer the service it does not concede that they have anything to offer the selection process itself. Outsiders are given no role in the selection process despite the fact that outside specialists may well have something to offer in assessing the claims of persons outside the service. 
It is not clear from the Bill whether nonestablished heads of departments can be members of the selection committee convened by the 

 Chairman of the Board although, as I read the Bill, it seems that they can be included. If so, this could in theory bring into the committee someone from outside the privileged group of established heads of departments, but in practice it is not likely to make much difference. The  Chairman  of the Public Service Board determines who is on the Committee and he is more than likely to ensure that the committee is comprised of members of the upper tier of permanent heads. Another matter for objection in this Bill is that the powers exercised by the  Chairman  of the Board are in our opinion excessive. He has powers quite independent of the Prime Minister, the Minister concerned, or the Cabinet as a whole and although the final selection rests with the Prime Minister the process of determining an established head of department is very much in the hands of the  Chairman  of the Board. He submits a personal report to the Prime Minister as to suitable candidates for appointment so that his personal preferences are made quite clear to the Prime Minister. Furthermore, he is also required to appoint a selection committee to report on suitable candidates and in appointing that committee he is required to consult with the Prime Minister only in regard to its composition. He determines its membership. As the Bill stands he therefore has determinative powers as to the composition of the committee and so can select those whose views most accord with his own and there is nothing that the Prime Minister or the Government can do about it. The  Chairman  can also appoint additional members to the committee at any time and in so doing he is again required only to consult with the Prime Minister. 
This vesting of power in the  Chairman  of the Board is of real importance for it means that he effectively controls who is or who is not an established permanent head. That, of course, assumes real importance in relation to the security of tenure that applies to a permanent head. If a Prime Minister or his Minister wants someone to be appointed as a permanent head but the  Chairman  of the Board disapproves of that person he cannot stop the appointment of that person but he can stop his appointment as an established permanent head. The person who is appointed is therefore subject to the strict limitation that applies under clause 54, that is, appointment is only for a period not exceeding 5 years and he is subject to dismissal on a change of government. We consider that the vesting of such powers in the  Chairman  of the Board to be excessive and it is an important ground on which we oppose this Bill. 
We also oppose another aspect of the appointment procedure, that is the provision that after the selection committee appointed by the  Chairman  has investigated and reported to the Prime Minister on suitable candidates and after the  Chairman  has made his own report to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister may then require that the position be advertised in the  Australian Government Gazette  and such other daily newspapers and publications as the  Chairman  thinks appropriate. After all the investigation and reporting has gone on- after the Chan-man has reported and the committee has reportedthen the position may be advertised. This surely is a curious procedure. It seems to be designed to ensure that outsiders get the least possible chance to be nominated as is the case with the rest of the procedure. 
As I mentioned earlier, the Royal Commission recommended that the first step in the selection procedure should be to advertise the position wherever circumstances allow. The procedure for which this Bill provides is exactly the opposite. Advertising comes in only as a final phase in the procedure if the Prime Minister feels dissatisfied with those nominated to him by the selection committee and the  Chairman  of the Board. Such a procedure does not guarantee, as the Prime Minister claimed in his second reading speech, that the chance of making the best possible appointment is increased. How does the Prime Minister know whether the best possible person has been nominated when the position has not been advertised and possibly the best person has not been nominated or even considered? 
Apart from our many objections to the procedures for appointment contained in this Bill we are also very concerned at the discriminatory treatment that applies to so-called nonestablished officers compared with established officers. We do not object to the lack of security of tenure for the non-established officers. Rather, we consider that, as the Royal Commission said, all permanent heads should be subject to review after 5 to 7 years. Instead, this Bill leaves them cosily ensconced in their privileged positions. Why should anyone who exercises the power that these people exercise be free from review? Members of Parliament are certainly subject to review. Ministers of departments certainly are. Why are not all departmental heads who exercise power to a degree little below that of Minister -perhaps in some cases rather more than that of Ministers- subject to review? In a democratic society no one should, in our view, be able to hold power indefinitely without being subject to automatic re-appraisal. Indeed, it is interesting to note that the royal commission found that departmental heads considered that 5 to 7 years was enough time in one department and that it was then time to move on. However, there is nothing in this Bill which provides a limitation of tenure for established permanent heads. That, in our view, is a major weakness of the Bill. 
Finally, I wish to draw attention to the erosion of power of Ministers, particularly Cabinet Ministers, under the Bill. As I mentioned at the outset, the prevailing practice under the current Public Service Act has been for the Minister concerned and the Prime Minister to consult the Board and for their recommendation to be approved by Cabinet before being submitted to the Governor-General. Under the provisions of the Bill now before the House the specific power is given to the Prime Minister to make the appointment. The Minister concerned and Cabinet have no final say. Furthermore, the Minister concerned gets into the act only after the  Chairman  and his Committee have made their recommendations as to suitable candidates. The Minister concerned then can ask the  Chairman  and the Committee to consider whether a particular person or persons who are not listed in the report as suitable candidates should be so listed. He can also ask them to see whether there might not be other unspecified persons who could be listed. The  Chairman  and the Committee must then comply with the request and report accordingly. But that is the extent of the Minister's involvement. He can suggest names if he does not like those which have been thrown up in the first place or ask that others be considered. Whether or not they are depends on the  Chairman  and on his Committee. The Cabinet has no say at all under these procedures. All final power resides in the Prime Minister. So Ministers individually and collectively, in the case of those who are Cabinet Ministers, lose the considerable powers they have in this area under current procedures. 
We do not support this erosion of powers of Ministers and Cabinet to determine who becomes a permanent head. The procedures suggested by the royal commission would have safeguarded those powers. The Minister concerned, with the Prime Minister, would have a right to nominate members of the selection committee. He would have a right to suggest particular names for consideration by the panel before it made any recommendations. He, along with Cabinet, would approve the ultimate selection. 
This Bill can be satisfactory only to a small group of Public Service mandarins who obtain great power to maintain their exclusive preserve for those of their own ilk. It is perhaps satisfactory also to a Prime Minister who wishes to see his Cabinet and ministerial colleagues stripped of power to determine their own chief executives. The Bill is certainly not in the best interests of the good administration of this country. We therefore strongly oppose it. 
-This is a curious debate in that we are debating a Bill which will wither on the vine and come back in a new form in the new Parliament. 
-I hope that it will be very different in one respect. If it is not, the Minister will be in terrible trouble. The Bill before the House is entitled the Trade Practices Amendment Bill but that is an incorrect description of the Bill in my view. There should have been included in the title some reference at least to the fact that it contains a clause which will, if passed into law, bring about a fundamental change in our industrial law. Indeed it will have the effect of totally disrupting and rendering unworkable the system of industrial relations that has been established in this country throughout this century. It is, in fact, the most repressive piece of industrial legislation ever brought before the Parliament. That the clause is contained in a Bill described as a Trade Practices Amendment Bill should not be allowed to disguise that fact. 
The key clause of this Bill which introduces this horrendous provision is proposed new section 45D, as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said. Proposed new section 4SD is described in the marginal note as dealing with 'Boycotts by employees'. In fact that description of the proposed section is completely misleading. Nowhere in the proposed section is the term 'boycott' mentioned. In fact the implications go far beyond the matter of union boycotts, whether they be secondary boycotts or any other form of boycott. As I understand it a boycott in its primary sense means an endeavour to dissuade members of the public or commercial entrepreneurs from entering into trade relations with the offending employer, whilst the Swanson Committee referred to 'secondary boycotts' as a situation 'where employees of one employer place a boycott upon the dealings of that person with another person'. But whatever definition of 'boycott' is adopted the fact remains that proposed section 45D ranges far beyond the narrow limits of these definitions and therefore the description of that clause in the margin in the Bill is thoroughly misleading. So, too, is the explanatory memorandum issued by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  It says of proposed section 45D: 
New section 45d prohibits boycotts - 
I emphasise ' boycotts '- . . . by employees which have the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services by the employer to a corporation if that action would have substantial adverse effects on the business of the corporation whose supplies are curtailed. 
In fact proposed section 4SD does not mention boycotts. As I said it goes far beyond the boycotts, and would have the effect of prohibiting most industrial action by way of strikes, goslows, black bans, picketing and so on in a wide range of industries totally regardless of the purpose for which such action was taken. If one reads proposed section 45d- I doubt that honourable members opposite have done so- one sees that nowhere does it mention boycotts. It states: 
An employee of a person . . . shall not engage in conduct in concert with another person or other persons ... for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services by the employer to a corporation if the hindering or preventing of the supply of those goods or services by the employer to the corporation would, or would be likely to, have a substantial adverse effect on the business of the corporation. 
As I understand it, that means that any action of a group of employees acting in concert which had the effect of hindering or preventing the supply of goods to a corporation would bring it in contravention of proposed section 45D. That goes way beyond the kind of action to which the Swanson Committee referred. It goes far beyond the actions of the petrol tanker drivers in New South Wales. It covers a vast spectrum of union activity. It covers a vast spectrum of industry in this country. I ask honourable members to consider what this proposed section states. It says that any time any group of employees act in concert in support of, say, a wage claim - 
It does not say 'wage claim' but the reasons are irrelevant. The reasons are not mentioned in section 45D. 
-Right. So, if the result of the action for whatever reason, is the hindering or the preventing of the supply of goods or services to a corporation the effect is a contravention of the Act under proposed section 45D. 
I have read very carefully the proposed new section. It states 'for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services'. The purpose in any industrial dispute - 
-Obviously you know nothing about industrial relations. In any industrial dispute employees take strike action or other action for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services to a corporation, for another purpose, which is to support their wage claim. They intend to hinder or prevent the supply of goods or services to a corporation. That is the intent of their action in 95 per cent of industrial disputes. The employees take action. If it does not have the effect of preventing or hindering the supply of goods or services to a corporation or to somebody else, it does not have any effect. They are not putting on any pressure. 
You will get your chance later. The whole point is that they need to put on pressure. To put on pressure they need to prevent or hinder the supply of goods or services. That must mean that in most industrial disputes employees will be found to be in breach of proposed new section 45d. If the Minister cannot understand that, I think there is something wrong with him. It is quite clear to me and to my legal advisers. I have had this matter looked at by people whose legal qualifications, I think, far exceed the Ministers. Their interpretation is the one I am giving him now. All I can say is that in our view the proposed new section is industrial dynamite. It goes far beyond boycotts. It provides that any action by employees which has the effect of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services - 
Yes, it can be 'for the purpose of. The purpose of doing it is to get another result, which is an industrial aim. Nothing in this Act qualifies that. 
Proposed new section 51 sub-section (2) was mentioned by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  He obviously had no idea what he was talking about. If one looks at that sub-section one sees that it specifically exempts the proposed new section 45D. Therefore it is of no relevance to a consideration of section 45D. We can forget proposed new section 5 1 sub-section (2) (a) in terms of looking at proposed new section 45D. We regard the proposed new section 45D as of tremendous importance. It is not a trade practices item, as we see it. It is one of the most revolutionary and venomous introductions to the area of industrial law that any government has contemplated in the history of this country. Let me describe to the Parliament the effect of proposed new section 45d on employees engaging in ordinary industrial action in this country. The proposed new section is included in Part IV of the proposed 
Act. Part VI of the Act prescribes certain penalties for a contravention of a provision of Part IV. The penalties that could be imposed upon employees indulging in ordinary industrial activity could be enormous. Under section 76, Part VI of the Act, a person who has contravened Part IV, which will now include the proposed new section 45D, may be fined $50,000. That is just the start. 
Furthermore, under section 82, a person who has contravened a provision of Part IV may be sued for loss or damage by the corporation that has been affected by the hindering or prevention of the supply of goods. Thus employees who go on strike in support of a wage rise, for instance, and who, by so doing, hinder or prevent the supply of goods or services to a corporation may be fined $50,000 and sued for damages by the affected corporation. So there is not just a fine of $50,000; there is also the liability to be sued for damages by the affected corporation. But that is not all. The employees may also be subject, under section 80, to injunction proceedings. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the Trade Practices Commission or any other person in the country has the right, under this Bill, to seek an injunction from the Federal court restraining a person from engaging in action that contravenes proposed new section 45D, that is, engaging in action such as strikes or other activities which prevent or hinder the supply of goods or services. The Government could get an injunction at any time it liked and so prevent all industrial activity. That right would be limited to this extent: The action would have to be preventing or hindering the supply of goods or services to a corporation because the whole new section is based on the corporation power. 
Obviously some employees are not affected. An obvious example would be school teachers. Certainly, if we consider the kind of ramifications that this action would have, the transport industry would be affected. Railways, airports, road haulage, shipping and all forms of transportation would be affected. Telecommunications, banking, employees in fuel and power industries such as gas, coal, electricity and petroleum would be affected. Certainly employees making component parts would be affected. I think even employees making finished products would be affected because their goods or services go to retail corporations. So the proposed new section will affect the vast majority of employees in this country. It is not confined to a few. 
-The honourable member for St George is singing out 'Hear, hear'. I suppose he thinks: 'This is great stuff. Let's stick the boot into them. It is really beaut. He will have another think coming later on if the Government goes on with this sort of legislation. This is incredibly hard and extensive legislation of which I think some Government members are only just starting to appreciate the ramifications. Obviously some members, such as the honourable member for St George, think it is tremendous and wish that it were even tougher. 
If an injunction is sought and granted and the employee does not abide by it, the court has the power to impose fines or gaol sentences, as it sees fit. There are 3 penalties-a $50,000 fine, action for damage by the affected corporation and provision for an injunction to prevent the action being continued. If that injunction is breached, fines and gaoling, as the court sees fit, are provided. Thus quite an horrific array of penalties can be used against employees indulging in normal industrial dispute activity. It does not end there. Under section 76 it seems that individual employees could be penalised even if industrial action did not eventuate. If there were no industrial action, no prevention or hindering of the supply of goods or services, they could still be fined under section 76 in the way that I have described. This comes about because proposed section 76 states that where a person has attempted to contravene a provision of Part IV; or has aided or abetted or counselled or procured a person to contravene such a provision; or has induced or attempted to induce a person to contravene such a provision; or has been in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the contravention by a person of such a provision; or conspires with others to contravene such a provision- in all those cases he is liable to a $50,000 fine. Even if the employees did not undertake any industrial action but merely discussed the possibility of indulging in such action, they could be in contravention of a provision of Pan IV and could be faced with penalties under section 76. They could also be faced with injunction proceedings to stop them considering the possibility of such action in future. 
This is extremely strong stuff. This is not some incidental change to a trade practices Bill. This is the heart and soul of industrial legislation in this country. I do not think some members opposite really understand what they are throwing into the ring. All of this is in relation to individual employees, but the legislation goes further than that. It could be that penalties would apply specifically to trade unions as well as to employees. Under proposed section 76, a union with which an employee acted in concert to prevent or hinder the supply of goods or services to a corporation would be liable, by virtue of the aiding and abetting provisions of section 76 to which I have just referred. This assumes that a union would be regarded as a person under the Act. My understanding is that that almost certainly would be the case, regardless of whether the union was a federally registered union, a State registered union or an unregistered union. Thus unions whose members engaged in action which contravened proposed new section 45D would be liable, under section 76, to a fine of up to $250,000 plus injunction proceedings, plus action for loss or damage by the affected corporation. 
The ramifications of this Bill are enormous. It clearly introduces in the guise of a trade practices Bill the most repressive industrial laws ever put before this Parliament. Yet a Press statement issued by the Minister last Thursday stated - 
I do. I keep quite a good eye on them. It said: 
He said that the effect of the amendments would be to subject both companies and trade unions which engaged in a particular form of anti-competitive conduct to the same rules. 
The Minister said that the new amendment would in no way interfere with or restrict legitimate union activities. 
What a ludicrous and ridiculous statement. 
Quite clearly from what I have put to the House it is absurd for the Minister to claim that the amendments would in no way interfere with or restrict legitimate union activities. As I have already shown, the legislation goes far beyond boycotts. I have shown that it goes to ordinary industrial activity and that it would apply to the vast majority of employees. I have shown that enormous penalties would apply. Yet the Minister says that it would not interfere with legitimate union activity. Perhaps it gets down to the definition of what is legitimate union activity, in which case I can only say that the Minister must have a remarkably narrow view of what comes within that definition. 
I have said that the action being taken in this Bill goes far beyond that recommended by the Swanson Committee, which confined its considerations to the matter of secondary boycotts. I do not think that in the time available I need pursue that point. It is fairly self-evident. It is quite clear that the Government in introducing proposed new section 45 D has gone miles beyond the secondary boycott limits that the Swanson Committee was talking about. 
Such laws as are being introduced here are totally inappropriate to a rational industrial relations system. The whole concept of introducing this statutory civil liability is a revolutionary change in the whole system. In Australia we have had applying alongside the arbitration law a system of industrial tons inherited from English common law. Those industrial tons have been rarely used. Although they have been used in a number of instances in the last half dozen years, I suppose we can say that their use has been rare. What we have in this Bill is the introduction of statutory civil liability for industrial disputes in a way that has never been applied in this country or any other country. In England where the industrial torts operated they affected unions up until 1906 when the English Government saw fit to legislate to prevent such common law applying to unions. The Trade Disputes Act 1906 has applied ever since and was strengthened in the mid 1970s to ensure that industrial torts do not apply to unions. 
In this country such law has never been passed except in Queensland. It has never been passed federally or in any other State. But the Federal Government is now in effect legislating to enable the torts to be put into the statutes. This is a remarkable change. It is a remarkable advance or regression in the law, depending on the way one sees it. I personally see it as a remarkable and amazing backward step, one which will plunge this country into the possibility of industrial chaos. It makes one wonder why this Government is taking this action. Perhaps it is true that the Government does not know what it is doing, in which case it is made up of fools. The alternative is that the Government is composed of knaves because it is indulging in action which will bring about in this country an industrial confrontation which simply must occur if the unions are to preserve their rights to act collectively and to take any form of industrial action. 
It could also be a demonstration of anti-union phobia for which the Government is well known. It could also be that pan of the Government's logic is that this legislation will be thrown in as part of the array of measures that it will use against unions in the post-wage indexation era which its wages policy will bring about. But whatever the reasons, this is most vicious legislation which we will oppose absolutely and totally. 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, refers to his Government's decision to increase vastly its powers to restrict the industrial activities of employees and their trade unions through its proposed introduction of the industrial relations bureau, its reported intention to increase substantially the penalties provided in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and its trade practices legislation which would make many employees and probably their unions liable to injunctions, civil actions for damages and massive penalties. I ask the Prime Minister: Will he inform the House why his Government is seeking such draconian powers when industrial disputation has declined dramatically over the last 2 years and wage settlements are almost completely confined to wage indexation increases? Is it the case that the Government regards such legislation as essential to its announced aim of slashing real wages this year, or is it simply that it is seeking to provoke a confrontation with the unions and thereby distract public attention from its abysmal economic performance? 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 1, I shall move: 
That a Joint Committee be established to inquire into and report on unemployment in Australia with special reference to: 
The extent of unemployment and the degree to which it has become a long term problem; 
The degree to which unemployment bears particularly upon certain industries, regions and sectors of the work force; 
The social implications of prolonged large scale unemployment; 
The applicability to Australia of innovative employment-creating schemes operating in other comparable countries; 
The extent to which unemployment could be reduced by implementing and expanding manpower programs: 
Other means by which unemployment could be reduced; and 
The extent and nature of possible conflict between the objective of reducing unemployment and other policy objectives. 
-When the Fraser Government was elected to office at the end of 1975 it was elected on the basis of various promises made to the Australian people, one of which was to support wage indexation. Of course, as I said in this House a year ago, it took the Government only 2 months or less to break that promise. However, there was some dispute on the Government side at that time as to whether or not it was in fact breaking its promise. In our view it was quite clear, but the Government seemed to want to argue the other way. I suggest that now it would be rather difficult for it to argue any longer that it supports wage indexation. What is happening in the current wage indexation case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is that the Government is arguing that real wages should be cut by 4 per cent in this quarter; that there should be no increase in the following quarter; and that the Commission then should look at the whole issue at the end of the June quarter. Quite clearly, this is a policy to substantially cut the real level of wages and salaries in this country. There is no getting around that fact. If wages are not adjusted for increases in prices, the real value of wages declines. If that goes on quarter after quarter, the reduction accordingly becomes more and more severe. 
Already there has been a 2 per cent decline in real award wages because of the failure of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to apply full wage indexation to wages and salaries. This has been mainly at the behest of the Commonwealth Government, which has pressured the Commission to give substantially less than full wage indexation. But that 2 per cent decline will pale into insignificance if the Commonwealth has its way in the future. As I have said, in the current case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Government in effect is arguing for 30 per cent indexation- for a $2.90 increase, and no more. That would mean roughly a 2 per cent increase in wages overall. With a 6 per cent increase in prices, that would mean a 4 per cent cut in real wages and salaries taken overall. With no increase in the March quarter, there would be a cut of another 31/2 per cent or so in the real level of wages. The Government has said in the present case- this might be news to many members of the Government Parties- that its estimate of inflation in the March quarter is 31/2 per cent. So there will be a 4 per cent cut in real wages now and a31/2 per cent cut in the March quarter; and, if there is no further wage increase throughout 1977, there will be a very substantial cut indeed. 
In the present case the Government is talking about a minimum of 1 1.8 per cent inflation in 1977. It has said that if there is an increase of only $2.90 a week in this case and no other increases whatever in wages and salaries this calendar year, through either indexation or any other means- either in award rates or overaward rates- the rate of inflation will still be 1 1.8 per cent. This means, in effect, that we will still have double figure inflation no matter what happens to wages this calendar year. In that situation, of course, there would be a drastic cut in real wage standards; there would be a cut of at least 10 per cent. But that is the way in which the Commonwealth Government seems to be arguing. I suggest that this is a matter of enormous importance for this Parliament. For a government to be arguing publicly that there should be a cut of this order in the real wage levels is extraordinary. I cannot think of a previous occasion on which any Commonwealth government has put such a submission to the people or to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Yet here we have it. 
An argument that has been put up and that was put up again by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  during question time today against the idea that a cut in real wages in fact means a cut in living standards, which we suggest is certainly the case, is that we have to look at household disposable income and that if we do so a different picture emerges. This is total deception or selfdelusion I am not sure which. But, in any case, it certainly is not the truth. Household disposable income did go up slightly in the September quarter, as the Treasurer mentioned during question time; but, if we look at what has been happening to it and what is likely to happen to it, we see that there is no doubt that it is substantially down. If real wage levels are to be cut to the extent that is in prospect and that has been the case already, very substantial fiscal policy changes certainly will be needed to overcome the effect. Those changes have not been forthcoming. 
Tax indexation is the one thing to which the Government can point with any chance of proving its point; but tax indexation does no more than maintain the tax level at what it was in the previous year. It does not represent a tax cut. It is an adjustment made each year to stop the tax burden from getting higher with inflation. So the Government cannot point to tax indexation as a means of adjusting household disposable income to make up for a reduction in real wages and salaries. That argument is just not valid. It is completely false. In fact, if we look at the figures on disposable household income produced by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social 
Research in its publication  Australian Economic Review 3rd Quarter 1976 we  see that in the first half of 1976 under the Fraser Government the real value of household disposable income fell by 1.4 per cent. The Institute estimated then 0.9 per cent increase for the second quarter, but since then it has had further thoughts about that. In the  Australian Economic Review 4th Quarter 1976  the Institute became more worried about the prospect of declining household disposable income. It made this point: 
Real average male earnings before tax are estimated to fall by 2.5 per cent in the three years to the final quarter of 1977 - 
That is with 80 per cent wage indexation and a 2 per cent increase outside indexation-  while in after-tax terms (for a man with a dependent wife and two children, and including Medibank payments) the decline over this period is likely to bc 5 to 6 per cent, with the heaviest falls concentrated in the final quarter of 1976 and the first quarter of 1977. 
I should have thought that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  would have been interested in this. What he is being told is that for a man with a dependent wife and 2 dependent children household disposable income is falling markedly at present and is likely to fall heavily over the 3-year period, but particularly in the last quarter of 1976 and the first quarter of 1977. That assumes 80 per cent wage indexation. But the Government is not pursuing 80 per cent wage indexation; it is pursuing 30 per cent wage indexation now and virtually nothing for the future. This must mean that household disposable income will decline by much more drastic figures than those I have just quoted. The Government should not try to argue that it can cut real wage levels without it really affecting household disposable income because of what it has done by way of tax indexation and family allowances, which were largely offset by the abolition of tax rebates for children anyway. That argument is totally false; it will not wash. The Government is not fooling anybody but itself. It certainly is not fooling the people, who are starting to feel the impact of the cutbacks in their standard of living and who will feel it much more heavily if the Government's wage policies and fiscal policies are maintained. 
The Government's rationale for pursuing this drastic and incredible policy of slashing the living standards of the Australian people is that first of all it wants to reduce inflation. We share its concern for the need to reduce inflation. The Opposition is strongly concerned about high inflation in this country. The argument we have with the Government is not about the need to reduce inflation; it is about the means which the Government implements to do so. We have put forward proposals to reduce the rate of inflation. Because we are concerned about inflation we have been horrified by the actions taken by the Government, particularly in relation to Medibank and devaluation, which have had such a stimulating effect on inflation. To add 3.2 per cent to the consumer price index, as the Government has done through its Medibank rearrangements which were made for purely ideological reasons; to add 3 per cent to prices through devaluation- the figure of 3 per cent comes from figures given by the Commonwealth Government in the current national wage case- or to add 6.2 per cent overall through those 2 measures is an incredible exercise for a government which said that its prime aim was to reduce the rate of inflation. What a totally irresponsible set of actions they were in terms of the Government's stated prime objective. 
The inflation figures, which I have mentioned and which were given by the Commonwealth Government in the current case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, show that we will have 11.8 per cent- virtually 12 per cent- inflation with virtually no wage increases this year. That will be partly because of devaluation, partly because of the Medibank figures and, of course, partly because of the flow-on of the underlying inflation rate which the Government has not yet succeeded in doing much to reduce. What this policy really amounts to is that the Government is arguing that wage and salary earners should pay for the mistakes it has made; that the wage and salary earners should pay for the fact that the Government has added 3.2 per cent to prices through Medibank rearrangements and has added 3 per cent to prices through devaluation. The Government is arguing that the wage and salary earners should pay this price by having their living standards cut as this is the only means left to reduce inflation. The policy is incredible, appalling and totally irresponsible. If it had been put forward at the last election honourable members opposite would not have got within a cooee of being elected as a government. 
Another part of the Government's rationale for undertaking this action is the transfer of income from wage and salary earners to profits. The Government wants to bring about this transfer. It is said by the Government's economic spokesman that it is basic to economic recovery in this country that we have a transfer of incomes from wage and salary earners to profits because only then will companies be stimulated enough to invest and thereby bring about recovery. We say that this is a totally false argument. The fact is that profits have recovered substantially from the trough into which they fell a year or so ago. Profits are now back to 85 per cent of their normal long term share. In the midst of the worst economic recession in 40 years company profits are back to something like 85 per cent of the normal long term share after being 65 per cent at one stage. That is a substantial recovery. With profits at 85 per cent of the normal long term share companies are not doing too bad given that we are in this severe recession. It is always the case in a recession that the profit share falls and the wages share goes up. It is absurd to point to the fact that the profit share is down and to say that that is the cause of the recession. It is much more likely that the profit share is down because of the recession. 
The Government in our view is totally mixing up cause and effect. If one looks at what has happened in after tax terms one sees that companies are much better off still than one imagines from looking at the basic shares. In after tax terms the profits that are being earned now will bc taxed much more lightly than profits have been taxed in the past. Company tax has effectively been cut by one-third. So there is a much higher share than appears on the surface in after tax terms for companies. 
This policy really amounts to a policy of making recession comfortable for business. It is not just making it comfortable for business; it is also ensuring that recession continues. By increasing the profitability for companies in the recession, the Government is slashing the living standards of wage and salary earners. If their living standards are being cut quarter after quarter it is highly unlikely- one would have thought logically absurd to argue- that they will start on a spending spree. That is the basis of the Government 's so-called whole economic policy. 
The Budget Papers said last year- I am sure honourable members opposite will recall this - that recovery in consumption was crucial to economic recovery. We agree that it is crucial but it will not be achieved by slashing the real level of wages and salaries. The Government is slashing the real levels of wages and salaries and praying for a consumption recovery. That is just a totally hopeless economic policy and one which just cannot work. It is a guarantee of the continuance of the recession. It is more than likely that the recession will be made worse because it would be startling for consumption to be maintained at present levels with a cut in real wage standards. The Government is hoping for an increase in the level of consumption despite the cut in wages and salaries. We think that is just not on. 
The fact is that the Government is trying to implement this crazy policy in various . ways which I do not have time to pursue in detail. Let me briefly say that the Government is placing the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in a quite invidious position. It is holding a gun at the Commission's head and saying that if the Commission does not abide by the Government's policy the Commission will be responsible for inflation. The Government is inviting the Commission to ignore industrial relations aspectsthings which it was set up to consider. The Government is inviting the Commission to ignore its basic charter concerning the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes and to look at no more than the economic arguments produced by the Government. The Government is also querying the consumer price index, an index which a standing tripartite commission said on 24 February was quite OK. That commission included representatives of the Government, the Department of - 
-My question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister concerns yesterday's appeal by the  President  of the New South Wales Graziers Association at the Association's annual conference for strict controls on the future expansion of Australian mineral exports and the  Deputy  Prime Minister's refusal, in opening the conference, to discuss this issue on the ground that he had a prepared text. I ask the Minister, now that he does not have a prepared text, whether he will inform the House what his attitude is to the matter raised by the  President  of the Graziers Association. Does the  Deputy  Prime Minister acknowledge that the rapid development of the mineral industry in the past has adversely affected the rural industries? Does he believe that the future development of the mining industry should be controlled in the interests of protecting other sectors of the economy, or is it his policy to develop the industry as rapidly as possible? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement. 
-This matter comes before the Parliament at a time when the Government is quite clearly desperate to try to retain some credibility in this country in respect of the continued high rate of inflation. It is quite clear to everyone that the Government has blatantly failed to fulfil its promise to reduce the rate of inflation. At the last national wage case it put forward figures to show that in 1977 the rate of inflation would be a minimum of 11.8 per cent. So we are looking at an inflation rate of about 12 per cent at least in 1977, on the Government's own figures. That rate of inflation is partly due to the Government's actions in relation to Medibank and in relation to devaluation. Given the clear fact that the Government has not been able to control inflation, it has snatched at this proposal thrown into the ring at the Premiers Conference by the Premier of Victoria. The Government has tried to make this an instant policy. 
Let us look at what was agreed by the 7 heads of government. There was no decision that this would be an instant prices and wages freeze. It was agreed that all heads of government would approach employer and professional organisations and the union bodies with a view to getting voluntary agreement to a 3-month pause and that following the attainment of that agreement there would be an approach to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to the Prices Justification Tribunal for implementation of the general pause. That was not accepted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  On the afternoon on which that agreement was made he walked out of the conference and on to the steps at Parliament House and said: 'The freeze starts now'. That was not in the document. The Prime Minister decided unilaterally that it started immediately. Having decided that, he violated the agreement again by seeking the agreement of the 6 Premiers over the weekend to a request to the Arbitration Commission to postpone the March quarter hearing which begins on 3 May. The Premiers had not agreed to any such proposal. The Labor Premiers at least said that they would not be a part of it. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister announced that, in the light of the Premiers' reaction, he would seek the postponement of today's Arbitration Commission hearing so that the parties could reach an agreement informally. But what has happened? Today before the Arbitration Commission the Government in fact did not do what the Prime Minister said last night it would do. 
The Government called for an instant halt to all claims before the Commission, whether heard or part-heard, and said that no further awards should be make by the Commission until there was a decision about whether there would be voluntary agreement to a pause and that if this involved protracted negotiations until 3 May it meant that there would be no start of the case at that time. The Government asked the Commission to rule to that effect. That goes back entirely on what the Prime Minister said to the nation last night on  This Day Tonight.  What sort of government is this Government? It has totally distorted the agreement that was made last week by the Premiers in a number of ways. 
It is also true to say that there are many problems associated with the implementation of a prices and wages freeze. As has been mentioned by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in relation to prices, there are the problems concerning perishable goods. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said the day after the 7 heads of government reached their agreement that the prices of perishable goods could not be frozen. Then there is the matter of the farm products whose prices are determined by daily auction. Are those prices to be frozen? The Prime Minister said today that the broad view of the Government is that there will be no exceptions. But how does one provide for that in relation to items that are subject to price determination through auction? Is the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry now no longer valid? What about the price of imported products? Some of the price increases caused by devaluation are probably still to be fed into the economy. What about those products if there is not to be any passing on? Are the importers supposed to carry those price increases or just withhold their goods from the market? The most likely thing is that there will be a passing on of the price increases in that respect. So there will be price movements for that reason. 
As has been mentioned by the honourable member for Adelaide, the price of tea, coffee, cocoa and such items is moving up rapidly on the world market. Those price rises must be reflected on the Australian market or the items just will not be for sale. What about the matter of discounts? An easy way not to increase prices on the surface but in fact to increase them is to reduce or eliminate altogether the discounts that were available previously. What is going to be done about that? What about the control of rents? One cannot go to an employer organisation and get an agreement not to increase rents. But without strict rent control it is very hard to see how there can be any control over the matter of rent increases, particularly following a change of tenancy. 
Furthermore there is the whole problem of the capacity of the Government to monitor price increases. The fact of the matter is that this Government, in its period in office so far, has been setting about reducing the powers of the Prices Justification Tribunal to monitor prices and reducing its powers to control prices in this country. The Government has made a number of amendments to the Prices Justification Act to restrict this area of activity. The Tribunal's staff has been reduced. The price surveillance of the retail sector has been abandoned. The whole price surveillance section now amounts to 15 people. Are they to cover the whole of Australia, along with the very small bodies which operate in the States? 
The State price monitoring bodies are small and, in most cases, without teeth. They have already received a voluminous number of complaints. The New South Wales Government said today that it has received over 1 100 complaints in the period since Thursday. What an enormous number in just that period of time! The Consumer Affairs Bureau in Victoria says that it has been snowed under by complaints from people in that State about price rises. Is there or is there not a price freeze? We just do not know. The Prime Minister says that there is, but the reality of the situation seems to be that, if anything, prices are going up more rapidly than ever before. There have been numerous price increases. We can hardly regard it as being a state of price freeze. 
Similarly there is a number of problems to be overcome in relation to the imposition of a wage freeze. The fact of the matter is that wages have been reduced in real terms by about 5 per cent over the last year. The price-wage freeze does nothing to restore the lost value of wages, and that is of very real concern for the unions. If they agree to a price-wage freeze for 3 months, that does nothing to restore what they have lost over the previous year. Furthermore, a wage freeze now would involve a further reduction in real wages. That is obvious. The March quarter application for an increase which was due to be heard in early May would not be heard until July, so until that period there would be no compensation for increases in prices. It follows that there would be a further reduction in real wages. That is also a matter of considerable concern for unions to consider and a problem in relation to getting their agreement to a wage-price freeze. 
Furthermore, near the end of the wage freeze there would be another big price rise, about 4 per cent again on the figures given by the Government at the last national wage case hearing- a 4 per cent increase in the June quarter which would come out in mid-July, which could be just near the end of the freeze period. That 4 per cent is already in the system and nothing can be done about that. Those price increases have mainly come in now because the price increases for the June quarter are the prices which have increased since the middle of February, the figures for a quarter being taken mainly in the middle of the quarter. So the June quarter increases are in the system. They will be big increases. At the end of this period of 3 months freeze on wages there will be another big increase in prices. All this means that there will then have to be a big pay increase at the end of that period if real wages are to be maintained. We would be looking at something like 7 per cent or 8 per cent. On past performance the Commission is highly unlikely to grant anything like that sort of increase. So the wage earners and the unions would again be looking at a further reduction in real wages, particularly as the Government through the Prime Minister this afternoon and at question time is talking about the imposition of transitional arrangements, whatever that might mean and whatever details the Prime Minister might have in mind for them. Also prices are likely to rise anyway despite the supposed freeze, as I mentioned before. 
While the Government is seeking the cooperation of the unions it is threatening them with an array of penalties and disabilities such as amendments to the Trade Practices Act and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the inquiry into trade union training and so on. If the Government wants a wage-price freeze to succeed it would at least need to have a detailed consideration by all the parties of all the problems involved. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has called for a national conference to consider all these matters. That is what should be done. Before there is any further discussion of the matter there ought to be a national conference of all the parties and all the governments so that they can consider the many problems involved and work out whether a price-wage freeze in this country is feasible. The way the scheme is operating at the moment is a shambles. There has been a total distortion by the Prime Minister and the Government of the agreement reached by the 7 heads of government last Wednesday. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
How many prosecutions for breaches of awards were instituted by the Arbitration Inspectorate in the first and second half of each of the years 1973 to 1976. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) In which countries are there marketing representatives for specific Australian farm products. 
In the case of each country and each product, what is (a) the number of representatives and (b) the name of the Government department or other body to which each representative belongs. 
I move: 
That a Joint Committee be established to inquire into and report on unemployment in Australia, with special reference to: 
1 ) the extent of unemployment and the degree to which it has become a long term problem; 
the degree to which unemployment bears particularly upon certain industries, regions and sectors of the workforce; 
the social implications of prolonged large-scale unemployment; (4 the applicability to Australia of innovative employment creating schemes operating in other comparable countries; 
the extent to which unemployment could be reduced by implementing and expanding manpower programs; 
other means by which unemployment could be reduced, and 
the extent and nature of possible conflict between the objective of reducing unemployment and other policy objectives. 
This motion seeks the establishment of a joint committee to inquire into and to report on unemployment in Australia with special reference to various matters to which I shall refer later. I move this motion because surely there can be no matter more deserving of detailed scrutiny by members of this Parliament than the issue of unemployment. Australia is now in the midst of a prolonged recession a key aspect of which is greatly increased unemployment. The signs are that it will become even more acute in the immediate future. But it is generally accepted, certainly by the Government department responsible for employment, that unemployment is due not only to the general economic malaise but also to structural factors which, unless corrected, will ensure the continuance of a comparatively high level of unemployment, even if there were to be a substantial economic recovery. Continuing high unemployment is surely a matter of enormous importance for this Parliament. It is not simply a matter of considering some overall economic aggregate; it involves the lives of hundreds of thousands of potential Australian workers and their dependants. It is in other words not just a largescale economic problem but a major social issue as well. 
It could be wrong, indeed it would be unforgivably neglectful of this Parliament, to ignore or give only passing consideration to such a major issue. But that is what will happen unless a joint committee such as I propose is established. So far as the Government is concerned this matter is best buried in a welter of obfuscation. Thus we have had the Goverment 's campaign of denigration of the unemployed as dole bludgers and its attacks on the unemployment statistics as being so unreliable that one Minister dismissed the whole matter of unemployment as a myth. The Government's initiatives to reduce unemployment have been few and perfunctory. It has refused to carry out its own election promise to introduce work relief programs such as previous Liberal-Country Party governments introduced in periods of much lower unemployment. The Government's spokesman says as little as possible about the matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in a major address to the nation on television 2 weeks ago regarding the state of the economy, said practically nothing about unemployment. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  in announcing the March unemployment figures before Easter, which were the highest on record for March, had absolutely nothing to say about them. It took him S days to produce any comment. 
The only time the problem of unemployment is discussed by this House is when it is raised by the Opposition. The Government's response is to declare that it yields to no one in its concern for the unemployed, to refer to its perfunctory programs and to rest on its anti-inflation policy as its basic solution to the problem. Such an approach is remarkably deficient. It seems to ignore the deep-seated structural problem that will not be overcome by general economic recovery. It ignores the fact that the measures taken by the Government as part of its anti-inflation program have increased unemployment- such as the ruthless cuts in government expenditure which have reduced the real level of government spending and thereby reduced government demand for goods and services and hence lowered the demand for labour and so increased unemployment. The same can also be said for the Government's anti-inflation program in relation to wages. Its constant campaign to reduce the real level of wages reduces the ability of wage earners to spend thereby reducing the possibility of a recovery in consumer demand which the Government said in its Budget last year was basic to economic recovery. 
The Government's approach is also inconsistent in that whilst it says reduction of inflation is basic to reducing unemployment it then takes action which adds remarkably to inflation, and hence on its own logic to unemployment. Thus the increase in inflation through the Medibank rearrangement and devaluation will, on the 
Government's own figures, add at least 6.2 per cent directly to the consumer price index. It follows that that increase in inflation will mean more unemployment. Its own policies therefore, by its own admission, add directly to the level of unemployment. 
If the Government is really concerned about unemployment it will cease ducking for cover on this issue and agree to the establishment of a joint committee to examine the problem. As my motion indicates, there are many aspects which are deserving of detailed consideration by this Parliament. The extent of unemployment is something about which there is a great deal of confusion. Because we have 2 measures of unemployment- the Commonwealth Employment Service figures and those produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in its quarterly labour force figures- there is confusion as to the real level of unemployment. Currently the Commonwealth Employment Service figures show for March a total of 326 SOO persons registered as unemployed and seeking fulltime work. However, the latest Bureau of Statistics survey, which is for February, shows that the total number of unemployed seeking fulltime work is 275 000, which is almost 70 000 below the February figure produced by the Commonwealth Employment Service. However, the Bureau of Statistics figures also give figures for persons unemployed who want part-time work. In February 1977, they numbered another 60 000. 
Clearly there are all sorts of definitional problems involved in reconciling the 2 series. The Commonwealth Employment Service figures undoubtedly include some persons who have obtained jobs but whose registrations have not lapsed from the rolls, whilst other persons who are unemployed do not bother to register. The Bureau of Statistics figures do not include the unemployed persons who are not actively looking for work, other than being registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Thus long term unemployed persons, who have lost hope of getting a job and ceased looking around for one, may be counted as not being in the work force, even though they could be receiving unemployment benefit. This is surely an irony. This componentthat is, this factor of people just giving up hope of getting a job and who are therefore not picked up by the Bureau of Statistics as being unemployed- would seem to explain why there has been some drop in the labour force participation rate in the last year or so. Therefore they are counted as being in the labour force. 
This leads to the concept of the hidden unemployed. In fact, if we look at the number of wage and salary earners who had jobs at the beginning of 1976 and at the end of 1976, we will see that there has virtually been no change. In a whole year in which we would normally have had an increase in the labour force of approximately 150 000, there was no change in the number of persons who had jobs as wage and salary earners- a remarkable factor. The fact that that element has not shown up in the very big increase in unemployment figures must indicate that there has been a substantial increase in the number who can be described as hidden unemployed. So, the actual extent of unemployment is something about which this Parliament is currently unclear. It should investigate the matter. However, it is quite clear that, whatever measure one takes, the trend in unemployment is up. The Commonwealth Employment Service figures for unemployed are 48 500 higher or 17^ per cent higher than they were a year ago. The Bureau of Statistics figures for unemployed persons seeking full time work were 32 000 higher in February than they were a year before- an increase of 13 per cent. So, on either basis- the Commonwealth Employment Service basis or the Bureau of Statistics basis- over the last 12 months there has been a substantial increase numerically and in percentage terms. 
Thus, with these trends, it is not surprising that the duration of unemployment is increasing substantially. According to the Bureau's figures, in February 1976 the average duration of unemployment was 14.4 weeks; that is, in respect of the number of persons who were out of work, the average period for which they had all been out of work was 14.4 weeks. A year later- in February 1977-that figure had stretched to 16.8 weeks, which is an extraordinarily long time to have as the average duration of unemployment. It means that on average every person who becomes unemployed spends almost 17 weeks finding another job. That surely is an extraordinary factor. The number of persons who have been unemployed for more than 26 weeks is growing rapidly. In February 1975, there were 20 000 persons in the category of very long term unemployed persons who were out of work for more than 26 weeks. By February 1976 that figure had grown to 44 500. In February 1977- a year later- that number had increased to 70 000. I emphasise to the House that on the latest figures available there are now 70 000 persons who have been out of work for over half a year- an extraordinary number to be out of work for such a long time. 
Thus it appears that unemployment has become very much a long term problem, particularly as surveys of future trends give little hope of a reduction in the level of unemployment. I again draw the attention of the House to a survey I have mentioned once before in this place, that is, a survey taken recently by the Australian Industries Development Association. That Association did a survey of companies employing about onetenth of the Australian private sector work force. So, it is a very representative sample. In that sample the Association found that: 
If perchance the respondent firms experienced a substantial growth in their sales and production in real terms (meaning by this, a 10 per cent increase) the vast majority of the companies would be able to accommodate such a sharp production increase either by a run-down in stocks or an increase in overtime and shift working and therefore by either making no new hirings or increasing their employment  by no  more than about 2 percent . . . 
So, with a 10 per cent increase in output and a remarkable economic recovery, those companies said that they would increase employment by only about 2 per cent which would, at best, take up the increase in the work force anyway and would do nothing about the current level of unemployment. But those same firms also said that very few of them expected more than a 3 per cent to 4 per cent growth in output and a large number were still working for Budget and marketing purposes on the assumption that real output in 1977 would be no greater than it was in 1976. So, most of them expected a very small increase in output only. The consequence of that of course was that they expected little or no increase in their employment levels in 1977. Not only has unemployment become entrenched as a major factor with very long term rates of duration of unemployment and high levels of people out of work for a long time, as well as large numbers who are unemployed, but also have we the prospect this year of a substantial worsening of unemployment because the private sector, even if there were substantial economic recovery, is not going to take up the increase in the work force. 
A matter which must also be of extraordinary interest and concern to this Parliament is that the unemployment burden is falling heavily on one sector of the work force; and that is the young, particularly teenagers. The unemployment rates for teenagers as shown by the Bureau of Statistics survey reveal appalling high levels of unemployment. In February this year the survey showed that the unemployment rate for teenage boysthat is, those 15 to 19 years of age- was 14.6 per cent. That means that one in every 7 boys who left school and who wanted to get a job could not get one at that time. One in every seven of them was out of work. The rate for teenage girls was much higher than that; it was 19.6 per cent. That is, one in every five girls in the 1 5 to 1 9 years age group who wanted to get a job was unable to get one. That is an extraordinarily high figure- in effect an unemployment rate of 20 per cent. In both cases there had been a substantial increase over the figures for the previous year. For boys the number had risen from 13.1 per cent to 14.6 per cent. For girls it had risen by 3.4 per cent to 19.6 per cent. There has been a substantial worsening of those percentages in respect of unemployed teenagers in the last 12 months. If one compares those rates with the rates for adults, the contrast is even greater. For adults the unemployment rate was 3.7 per cent. There is no doubt that the unemployment burden is being borne substantially by the young people in our community. The total number of unemployed teenagers at the end of February was 125 000-17 000 more than in February 1976. All this is an extraordinary problem for this country. 
What is the effect on the people involved, these young people starting their working life - and I use the word 'working' in inverted commaswho are unemployed for long periods? We simply do not really know. Very little in the way of studies has been undertaken in this area. One can find some articles but there is a paucity of information available to give us any substantial idea of what the effect is. I am sure that all members of Parliament would agree that it cannot be to the good either of the people involved or of the society in which they live. Such extraordinarily high rates of unemployment must have a disastrous effect on the people involved and on society generally. Can we really expect these young people to share society's values and act according to its norms if they are unable to get jobs? I do not think that we can expect them to do so and I do not think that they will do so. I think that they will become anti-social. One can understand why that will be the case. 
Already there is some evidence from South Australia that the number of juvenile offences is much higher among the young unemployed. A study which was undertaken last year in South Australia and which is entitled  Report of the Youth Unemployment Working Party  concluded:   an analysis of the juvenile offenders, statistics suggest that the juvenile offending rate is linked to the unemployment rate. 
A table was prepared showing the percentage increase in relation to several classes of offenders in the period from June 1973 to June 1976. The report then set out a table of statistics in relation to offenders aged 14 to 18 years. The increase in total offenders in the period from June 1973 to June 1976 was 56 per cent. For school attending offenders it was 40 per cent and for work force employed offenders it was 37 per cent. But for work force unemployed offenders it was 238 per cent. So there was an enormous increase in the offences committed by young people who were unemployed compared with those committed by young people who were either at school or in jobs. Of course, that is the sort of thing that one can expect to happen because they are being rejected by society and are not going to abide by the norms of society. There is a dearth of real information, however, on the effect of long term unemployment on the unemployed and society. There is a real need for this Parliament to investigate this matter. That can be done only by a parliamentary committee. We are not going to investigate it in this House, but we ought to establish a committee to have a look at this terribly important matter which is affecting the young people of this country. 
The terms of reference of the committee I have suggested should be established refer to many particular items. I shall mention briefly some of those items. The terms of reference refer to the need for job creation programs and to look at the job creation programs established by other countries. In fact, most other countries have established job creation programs in the face of substantially increased unemployment. We are almost unique in the Western world in not having job creation programs. Canada, the United States of America and most of the Western European countries have job creation programs. Let me quote briefly from a journal known as European Community, which is published by the European Economic Commission, for September 1976. In an article on job creation schemes in Europe it states: 
Schemes have been launched in most member states to reduce the level of unemployment . . . 
Job creation schemes include projects to improve certain basic social infrastructures (construction of roads, bridges and public buildings) and restore the environment (afforestation, land utilisation, etc). They may also be devoted to the development of local services. 
Clearly that is what is happening in Western Europe. Sweden, of course, has gone far beyond that with its introduction of quite innovative programs, such as the development of investment funds whereby funds are taken from companies in the good times and handed back in the not so good times so that the companies can invest with those funds at a time of recession. Assistance is given to companies to stockpile so that they can continue production in times of recession. Other means are also utilised to ensure that production continues. We should be looking at those sorts of areas. We should be looking at the kind of manpower programs that can be developed, particularly in relation to apprenticeships, retraining programs, vocational training programs, vocational guidance and career counselling. There is a whole range of issues which ought to be analysed by this Parliament through a parliamentary committee. 
Recently an Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development committee investigated educational policy in this country. It has made an interim report, which was recently made available to me. That report contains many recommendatons in relation to the training of young people in this country for jobs. I recommend that OECD publication to members of parliament. It recommends in relation to apprenticeship, for instance, that we ought to be looking at compulsion and not just - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Thirteen days ago a Premiers Conference in this building was shaping as one of the great disasters of the Fraser Government, with only one of the six State Premiers buying the Fraser Government's concept of federal financial relationships. But that Premiers Conference was transformed by the throwing into the ring of the concept of a price-wage freeze by the Premier of Victoria, who called for a national conference of governments, trade unions and employer organisations to consider such a freeze. That was how the whole thing started just 13 days ago. It was started with a call for a national conference. 
The 7 heads of government agreed to a statement calling for a voluntary price and wage freeze. They did so because they were all concerned at the fact that this country was suffering from substantial inflation. During the calendar year 1976 inflation was running at 14.4 per cent, compared with 8.8 per cent as the average for the 23 Western developed countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. We are certainly well above the average of comparable countries. In the last quarter of 1 976 inflation had been 6 per cent. The minimum rate of inflation for 1977, on the Government's own figures, is 12 per cent. So the heads of government were certainly right in being concerned about the fact that this country is now in the grip of substantial inflation and something has to be done about it. 
However, the emphasis in the call by the heads of government was on voluntary co-operation by the parties. What was called for by their agreement was an approach to the parties to see whether they would agree voluntarily to the freezing of prices and wages for 3 months, and if they agreed approaches were to be made to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal respectively to implement the freezes. But it soon became clear that there were lots of problems in such an approach. Within less than a day it was clear that there would be a great problem on the prices side and on the wages side. On the prices side, there were problems about perishable items, auction-determined prices, imported prices, possible non-compliance because not everyone may accept the voluntary price freeze, and problems about surveillance because there was not proper Federal or State machinery for surveillance on price increases. 
So within a day or so there were substantial expressions of concern. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said that it would be very difficult to keep farm prices frozen for 3 months. The Retail Traders Association of New South Wales said that it could not see how it could keep its prices frozen when imported prices might go up. The Foodland stores ran advertisements in the Melbourne  Sun  saying they would abide by the freeze to the best of their ability, but in respect of certain products where prices were certain to go up they would try to keep the increases to a minimum. So it was very clear only a day or so after the agreement reached by the State Premiers and the Prime Minister that there would be great problems in achieving a price freeze. 
The Government refused to set out guidelines for a prices freeze or to say how it could be made effective. It refused despite constant requests from all sorts of people, including the Opposition in this House. All we heard from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  again and again was that the Government's broad approach was that there be no exemptions, despite the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry had indicated that in respect of farm products he thought there ought to be. 
On the wages side there were also problems. There was no possibility of agreement unless the Government could assure the unions that there would be an effective price freeze. How could the unions be expected to agree to a wage freeze when there was no guarantee that there would be an effective price freeze, which the Government has never been in a position to guarantee. Furthermore, there was the problem that a price freeze would not show up in the consumer price index until the September quarter because the June quarter figures were already in the pipeline and the March quarter figures were due out in one or two weeks. In fact, they will be out at the end of this week, as I understand it. So in the period of the wage freeze there would be substantial recorded price increases. Let me inform the House that, according to the Government's own figures, in the March quarter the increase will be 3.5 per cent at least and in the June quarter 3.9 per cent at least. Those figures were given in the national wage case. So in the period of the proposed wage freeze there would be substantial recorded price increases, which of course would make it more difficult for unions to accept the wage freeze. 
Furthermore, there was a problem that award wages had been slashed already by 4 per cent in the last year. In fact, actual wages had been slashed by more than that in real terms because overaward payments have not moved for well over a year. So it was unlikely that the unions would accept any further real wage cuts such as would be involved in a price and wage freeze because of the non-adjustment for the March quarter, meaning that real wages would .be reduced until at least the March quarter figures were looked at by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in August when, after the freeze had ended, it considered them at the same time as it considered the June quarter figures. 
There were problems on the prices side and problems on the wages side. It was clear with all these problems that any chance of a concensus approach to wage and price determination depended on a national conference of all the parties concerned. The ACTU called for such a conference in a hearing before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission a week ago and said that in such a conference consideration should be given to tax cuts as an offset to unions forgoing the March quarter increase so that there would not be a further fall in real after-tax wages. Clearly that was a very important issue for the unions. That call for a national conference was supported by the 3 State Labor governments. It was supported by employer organisations, and in that connection let me quote the statement by the Executive Director of the National Employers Policy Committee,  Mr George  Polites, reported in the  Canberra Times  on 20 April: 
We do need a serious conference to see if we can come together and work out a proper wages and prices policy to halt the inflationary spiral. 

 Mr Polites was certainly unequivocal in his support for a national conference. Such a conference was also supported by the Victorian Government. The government which had originally proposed the price-wage freeze also supported the idea of a national conference when it was again proposed by the ACTU. The Arbitration Commission also supported the idea, and in fact commended it in a statement at the end of the one-day hearing a week ago. Let me read to the House what was said: 
We have in past decisions laid great stress on the importance of consensus in national wage matters. We believe that every effort should be made to pursue those avenues which provide the opportunity for reaching consensus. In this connection we commend the ACTU proposal, supported by the other peak union councils and the governments of New South wales, South Australia, and Tasmania, for a broadly based conference to be called by the Commonwealth. 
The Arbitration Commission commended the idea, but the Government dismissed it out of hand on the flimsy excuse that the unions would not agree in principle to a price-wage freeze. The Government must have known that the unions could not agree in principle to something which was vague, ill-defined, and beset with considerable problems until those problems had been discussed and analysed. Clearly, the place to do that was in a national conference. So one can conclude only that the Government did not want a national conference and did not want it because it would be almost alone at such a conference. The Government cannot depend on support even from the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  because at such a conference where there would be discussions of tax cuts presumably  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would stick to what he had said publicly, namely, that there ought to be substantial tax cuts. Just a week ago he called for an immediate 10 per cent cut in personal income tax, a halving of sales tax, reductions in company tax, and elimination of tax on overtime. Five of the six State Premiers would be aligned against the Government at such a national conference, at least in respect of tax offsets and so it is clear why the Government was not anxious to have a national conference. Quite clearly, very meagre support would emerge from such a conference for the Government's economic policies, and the paucity of support for its policies would be an enormous embarrassment to this Government. 
What has happened in the wake of all this is that the Government is now forsaking the voluntary aspect of the freeze in regard to wages and is seeking a compulsory wage freeze. Indeed, almost from the outset the Government has shown a desire to make the wage freeze compulsory. Two days after the voluntary agreement was reached by the heads of government, the Government sought the co-operation of the Premiers in a compulsory wage freeze by asking them to join in a joint submission to the Arbitration Commission seeking a wage freeze at least in respect of award wages. When the Labor Premiers protested that that was outside the agreement because what they had agreed to was to approach the parties and get their voluntary acceptance not to rush off to the Commission and ask for the imposition of a freeze, the Prime Minister said that the Government would change its submission and ask the Commission to delay the hearing. But the Government did not abide even by that statement. Instead, it asked the Commission to defer part heard and new matters pending agreement in regard to a voluntary wage freeze. 
So the Government did not abide even by the Prime Minister's statement made to the people at the end of the week before last in which he said that the Government would change its proposed submission from one requesting the Arbitration Commission to impose an immediate freeze to one asking the Commission to defer the hearing. In fact the Government asked the Commission to impose a freeze until agreement was reached. It was asking the Commission to impose a wage freeze pending the voluntary acceptance of one. The Government would not put a time on the deferment period. It agreed that a deferment could involve postponing the March quarter hearing listed for 3 May, and when pushed by the Commission it had to agree that it was asking the Commission to forgo the industrial consequences of that, to ignore its statutory role to prevent and settle industrial disputes, and instead to impose a wage freeze regardless of its statutory role. When that proposition was rejected by the Arbitration Commission the Government refused to accept the idea of a national conference to obtain a consensus approach, and again has proposed to the State Premiers that a joint approach be made to the Commission to freeze award wages. 
The Government has made constant attempts to get a compulsory wage freeze but has made no such effort in regard to prices. Quite clearly, it has given little attention to obtaining a price freeze, whether voluntarily or compulsorily. The Prime Minister has attempted to say that he is not seeking a compulsory wage freeze. He said on television last week that the unions can get wage increases outside the Arbitration Commission and therefore the fact that he is asking the Commission to freeze award wages does not mean that he is trying to impose a compulsory wage freeze. What enormous hypocrisy, because at the same time the Prime Minister and the Government are doing their level best to ensure that no increase in wages occurs outside the Arbitration Commission. In fact, in the oil industry dispute, as I am sure all honourable members are aware, the Government is pressuring the oil companies, and has been doing so for some time, not to concede one cent to the unions in the negotiations which have now broken down and led to the prolonged strike. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has been pressuring the oil companies at least since the beginning of this month. The Minister at the table, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  sent telegrams to the companies only a couple of days ago telling them not to give way, and that if they did the Government would have a look at their pricing policies. So clearly the Government is doing its level best to ensure that the companies do not concede anything outside the Arbitration Commission, and quite obviously the Government is very much about imposing a compulsory wage freeze, both in terms of award rates and non-award rates. 
We have also had conjecture in the Press about the use of the corporations power in a way which would prohibit companies from giving increases in wages beyond those awarded by the Arbitration Commission. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is on record as suggesting that this could be done, and there has been a lot of conjecture that the Government may well impose such measures. So the Government clearly is doing all in its power to impose a compulsory wage freeze as part of its policy to slash real wage levels even further than they have been cut already. It is especially clear now that there will be no voluntary price freeze. Last Friday the  Australian Financial Review  gave example after example of captains of industry saying that as far as they were concerned there was no price freeze. The Government's policy is completely divisive. It is not interested in the consensus approach. If it were interested it would call a national conference, and the fact that it does not do so shows that it is interested not in consensus but in division. It is interested in confronting the unions, in slashing real wages, and in the process bringing about substantial industrial disputation, therefore justifying the industrial relations legislation which has already been introduced into this House, and the trade practices legislation, which if implemented, will have similar effects on the ability of the unions to take industrial action. This Government is a government of industrial confrontation and division. It is not a government which is interested in the orderly settlement of industrial disputes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns statements he made to the effect that no Premier at the Premiers Conference sought tax cuts in relation to a prices and wages freeze. I ask the Prime Minister: Has his attention been drawn to statements by the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  on the radio program  AM  last Friday in which he maintained that it was not correct to say that no mention of tax cuts was made at the Premiers Conference in that tax cuts were always part of his price-wage freeze proposal, as others were aware; that they were not included in the heads of government agreement because it was put to him that to be discussing publicly possible tax cuts was undesirable, but that the Prime Minister and the Treasurer gave him an undertaking that tax cuts would be considered? Are these statements true? If so, will the Prime Minister now apologise to the House and the nation for having given a completely misleading account of what transpired at the Premiers Conference and for having distorted the true nature of the heads of government agreement? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and concerns the Government's acceptance of the proposal by the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the Government's proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I ask: Is it a fact that a committee of Ministers, not including the Prime Minister, agreed on 17 May to the establishment of an Industrial Relations Bureau with the same powers as those currently available to the Arbitration Inspectorate and agreed that these powers would be exercised according to the same processes as those by which they have been exercised until now? If so, will the Prime Minister now explain to the House what he meant by his subsequent statement on 19 May that the Industrial Relations Bureau will be able to initiate prosecutions of unions? Specifically, did he mean by that that the Bureau would be able to prosecute a union for breach of a bans clause and, if so, would that not represent a complete repudiation of the agreement announced by his Ministers on 17 May? 
-The Bill now before the House nominally seeks to amend the law relating to trade practices in this country but in fact it does much more than that. It introduces laws which will have severe implications for our industrial relations. That is so even though the amendments now proposed are substantially different from those introduced by the Government at the end of last year and debated in this House early this year. Despite substantial changes to its proposed amendments in respect of actions by employees, the Government still seeks to control the activities of trade unions in certain respects through trade practices legislation. We believe that, by so doing, the Government is taking a completely wrong approach, especially as much of the activity that it would affect concerns issues that are not remotely related to issues with which trade practices legislation is basically concerned, that is, ensuring that there is free competition in the market place. 
The Government bases this legislation in respect of unions on the fact that the Swanson Committee recommended that there be legislation to cover secondary boycotts by employees as they had the effect of restricting competition. But the mere fact that the Swanson Committee recommended it is not a substantial reason for introducing it. The Government itself has seen fit to ignore recommendations of that Committee in respect of other matters, such as mergers and price discrimination. Furthermore, the Swanson Committee did not even recommend that unions be brought under the Trade Practices Act. Certainly it concluded that unions engaging in secondary boycotts should be made subject to legal restraint, but it made no recommendation as to whether that restraint should be exercised under the Trade Practices Act or the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
In our view the fact that certain union action has the effect of restricting competition is no reason to include unions under trade practices legislation. Practically all union activity that has the effect of limiting competition has an industrial purpose. It is industrial action taken to achieve an industrial gain or to prevent an industrial loss. As such it is an industrial issue and not a trading or commercial issue. This legislation nominally seeks to control the activities of employees and unions in respect of secondary boycotts, which is a term that is not defined in the Bill. A text book definition of 'secondary boycott' demonstrates its industrial nature. In Grunfeld's  Modern Trade Union Law  the expression is defined as follows: 
A strategm of industrial conflict used in particular where the embattled union lacks sufficient strength in the plant of the employer in dispute to bring effective pressure to bear through its members employed there. The union may therefore try to sharpen the bargaining pressure by cutting off supplies to the employer or by sealing off outlets of distribution of the employer. 
I emphasise the first part of that definition- 'a strategm of industrial conflict'. Indeed, I challenge the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  to name one case of an alleged secondary boycott in which union action has not been taken for industrial reasons. In all the cases mentioned in the report of the Swanson Committee and in the debate on the earlier amendments there was not one example of union action not being taken to make an industrial gain or to prevent an industrial loss, such as a reduction in the numbers employed. Indeed, not many examples are available of those secondary boycotts. Certainly they occur from time to time and there are a couple of continuing examples. But they are, taken overall, a very minor aspect of union activity. It does not follow from that that this legislation will have only a minor effect on the trade union movement. On the contrary, if passed into law this legislation will have a dramatic effect on trade union activity covering a far wider scope than the narrow limits of secondary boycotts. 
In this respect these amendments are dishonestly described in the Bill, as was the case with the earlier amendments. In those amendments the then proposed section 45D of the Trade Practices Act was said to relate to boycotts by employees, according to the marginal note to the then proposed section. In the Bill now before the House the marginal note to proposed section 45D reads 'secondary boycotts'. In both cases the marginal notes are a wildly misleading description of the activity covered by the amending clauses. In its original form section 45D was incredibly wide in its application, covering all forms of industrial action by employees where they involved hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services to a corporation. All that mattered was whether such action was likely to have a substantial adverse effect on the corporation, as will be the case with any effective prolonged industrial action by employees that is taken for industrial reasons. 
The criticisms that we made of that Bill were never answered in this House, but subsequently the Government has had detailed discussions with the unions and we now have a considerably altered proposed section 45D before us which, I might say, is in no way approved by the unions. Indeed, they are vehemently opposed to it. The first thing that one notes about it is that it is now vastly more complex. Indeed, it will become a lawyer's dream as there is so much room for debate as to whether particular aspects of union activity would or would not be caught by this proposed section. 
Certainly it goes far beyond secondary boycotts, but it will still affect a very wide range of union activity that could not be remotely described as secondary boycotts. For instance, sub-section ( 1 ) of proposed section 45D relates to a person rather than an employee, as previously proposed. If a person engages in conduct that hinders or prevents the supply of goods or services to a corporation or their acquisition from a corporation for the purpose of causing substantial loss or damage to the corporation or restricting competition, then he is liable. This would seem to us to cover such activity as student demonstrators picketing a firm for trade contacts with South Africa, to give one example. The picketing of a company for mining uranium is another example. Yet another example is seen when unemployed workers engage in a sit-in. It would also appear to cover union officials engaged in union activity that hindered the activities of a corporation. All of these people now come within this broader definition of 'a person' rather than 'an employee' which was in the original amendments. 
Furthermore, the union itself may be included under sub-section (1). Since 'a person' is not defined in the Bill or the Act one must rely on the Acts Interpretation Act, which says that it may include a body corporate. Whether federally registered unions are bodies corporate for the purposes of this Act is not clear, but there is a good chance that that would be the case. In Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia the State registered unions are clearly bodies corporate and likely to be considered as such for the purposes of this Act. But even if a union can escape being roped in as ' a person ' the Bill still seeks to ensure that unions are ensnared by proposed sub-sections (5) and (6). Under proposed sub-section (5), when two or more members of a union engage in conduct in concert with another the union is deemed to engage in that conduct in conceit with them. Thus any activity by employees or union members which contravenes the Act will rope in the union as well. In fact, it will rope in the union instead of the employees unless the union establishes that it took all reasonable steps to prevent its members from engaging in that conduct. Goodness knows what 'reasonable steps' are supposed to be. The term 'reasonable steps' is not defined in any way in the Act. We are left to guess about that. 
Thus the union is much more directly implicated than was the case with the previous proposed amendments. In those amendments the union was only caught indirectly through the aiding and abetting procedures of section 76 of the Act and even that depended on the union meeting the definition of 'a person'. Now, however, unions are to be directly and specifically implicated in section 45D and if found liable will be faced with an horrific array of penalties involving $250,000 fines, injunctions and civil actions for damages. As we read this proposed section now it is much more direct in its concern to catch unions than were the previous amendments but, on the other hand, less concerned to penalise individuals. 
It also now appears to us that the apparently large escape clause for union activity concerned with wages, conditions of employment, hours of work, working conditions or the termination of employment, as set out in proposed sub-section (3), is in fact far less comprehensive than may at first appear. In the first place a substantial amount of trade union activity would appear not to be exempted by proposed sub-section (3). The broadest head of exemption relates to the conditions of employment. But even that would appear to be limited to forms of action relating to different aspects of particular employment contracts. 
Not covered by this sub-section as we see it are such items as demarcation disputes, because the High Court has ruled that such disputes are not concerned with the conditions on which people are employed but rather assume an antecedent contract of employment. Thus up to approximately 10 per cent of industrial disputes, which are demarcation disputes- a very substantial element- are not protected from the trade practices legislation and unions engaging in them being involved with the possibility of massive fines and penalties under this legislation. Action to secure peripheral employment benefits such as child care services at the work place would seem to us not to be included. Action taken to achieve a social or environmental end such as green bans would seem to us not to be exempted by the exemption clause. Industrial action taken to secure an industrial end but taken in a political context such as protest action against the Government's industrial legislation or its industry or employment policy also would not be covered. 
Doubtless, many honourable members opposite think it is a great idea to bash unions for these sorts of activities. But what is the relation of this to trade practices legislation? Why should a patently industrial dispute, such as a demarcation dispute, attract a penalty under a law supposedly aimed at achieving a competitive market place? What of the conflict with the industrial authority that is trying to settle the dispute? Will it be helped by the savage imposition of penalties under the Trade Practices Act? Clearly there is enormous potential for conflict here, as is the case with the authorisation procedures to which I will come later. 
Furthermore, these exemptions only apply to industrial action taken to improve the conditions of the particular employee taking the action, or of his work mates employed by the same employer. Sympathy action in which employees of one employer take action to assist employees of another  employer is not  covered even if the action is ultimately directed at protecting the sympathy strikers' own position. So, if in one company an employee was attempting a drastic change of production procedures, for instance, and employees of other employers took industrial action against that employer in order to ensure that those changes of procedures did not become established and so extend to their company, they would not be covered by the exemption clause. 
Apart from appearing not to exempt a wide array of industrial activity we have an even more serious objection to these exclusionary provisions. It appears to us to be the case that proposed sub-section (3), which contains the exclusionary provisions, provides no protection at all to unions as such. Before I proceed any further, I should say that I learned a little while ago this afternoon that the Government may be introducing an amendment to this part of the legislation. But I will proceed in terms of the Bill as it has been put before the House. Proposed sub-section (3) is directed to 'a person' but from the context of the proposed sub-section it is clear that the person who can claim the exemption must be an employee. The proposed sub-section refers to 'the employer of that person' and 'the employment of that person'. So, it is clearly directed only to employees, not their unions. 
Then under proposed sub-section (5) it is provided that, where two or more union members engage in conduct in concert, the union is deemed to engage in conduct in concert with them. Thus the union is directly caught by any action of its members. But under proposed subsections (3) and (4) it is denied the cover which the employees have. Proposed sub-section (3) relates only to employees so there is no cover for the union there, particularly as proposed subsection (4) makes it clear that a person not covered by proposed sub-section (3) cannot escape the application of proposed sub-section ( 1 ) simply because the person with whom he is engaging in concert is covered by that proposed sub-section. Thus unions are left completely unprotected. Unless the Government introduces an amendment in the Committee stage it will pass something which will mean unions will be totally unprotected against the trade practices legislation in respect of any industrial activity which has the effect of causing damage to a corporation. Any action by union members that hinders or prevents a company's activity and so results in a substantial loss or damage to that company will be a breach of the Act. Thus just about all strikes and industrial activity would be open to penalty. 
Only those in occupations which do not involve supplying goods or services to or acquiring goods or services from a corporation would be exempt. 
The industrial relations implications of such legislation are enormous. Yet this Government has blithely put them before this Parliament as though it were making only some minor change to inconsequential legislation. In fact the ramifications of this legislation would appear to be far more extensive than the recently proposed and now withdrawn amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. If those conciliation and arbitration amendments are to be withdrawn for consideration by the proposed National Labour Consultative Council, what possible reason can there be for not doing at least that much with this legislative monstrosity now before the Parliament? 
There are numerous other objections that we have to proposed section 45D. In the time available to me, I will refer to some of them. The use of the word 'purpose' in the clause is highly selective to the disadvantage of trade unions. In proposed sub-section ( 1 ), for a person to be in breach of the Act, it must be proved that he engaged in the conduct concerned for a particular purpose- that is, to cause loss or damage to a corporation or to restrict competition. Proposed sub-section (2) makes it clear that this purpose need not be the dominant purpose, or even a substantial purpose, because it excludes the application of proposed section 4F (b) to proposed section 45 ( 1 ). Section 4F (b) treats 'purpose' as meaning substantial purpose, but that provision is excluded from proposed section 45 ( 1 ) and it is sufficient under proposed section 45 (2) that the 'damage' purpose was just one, maybe a quite minor one, of the purpose underlying the action. Of course that is a very important provision because in most industrial action the principal purpose is to gain an industrial benefit or prevent an industrial  Toss  and damage to the company is an incidental purpose. 
It is also revealing to compare this broad use of the word 'purpose' for the section to operate against employees with what is used where some benefit is being extended to them by way of the exemption provisions in proposed sub-section (3). In that sub-section action aimed at securing improved remuneration and working conditions etc., will be exempt only if it is the dominant purpose. So, when it is against employees the purpose is very broadly defined but when it is to their benefit it has a very restricted application. Unions will also have an avenue open to them to avoid breach of the Act which was not available before, and that is through the process of authorisation procedures under proposed section 88 (7). However the Trade Practices Commission can grant such an authorisation only if it is satisfied that the proposed conduct 'would result or be likely to result in such a benefit to the public that it should be allowed to take place'. There is no specification of what factors the Commission will take into account in assessing whether there is an overall public benefit in the proposed practice. But presumably it will have to balance off the industrial relations benefit that may stem from allowing the practice with the effect on competition or on corporations. This would bring it into the field of competing with and possibly conflicting with the Arbitration Commission as to industrial relations aspects. In any case the Trade Practices Commission is not a body with expertise in industrial relations, and how it could be expected to assess confidently the industrial relations value of a particular practice is not explained in this legislation. 
The legislation also seems to extend the liability of unions beyond the limits now set by the common law. This is an obscure and difficult area. But in recent years there has been increasing use of common law actions against unions and it is my advice that actions which are now defendable at common law are likely to be in breach of the law if this legislation is passed. 
This Bill is bad legislation. It is dishonest in its description as relating simply to secondary boycotts. It is inappropriate to trade practices legislation as it goes far beyond action to restrain or to ensure effective competition. In any case it is an improper means of controlling trade union activity. It is frightfully ill considered. I ask the House to consider that the amendments that are now before the House in this Bill are to be amended again as we understand it. In any case they are the second set of amendments to be put before the House. Between those 2 sets of amendments other amendments have been floated to the trade unions. Quite clearly the Government is totally unsure of what it is trying to achieve or, if it knows, it is totally unable to achieve it. It is obvious that the Government has not thought the whole issue through. With each new set of amendments we are reduced to playing hunt-the-legal-Howard because in each amendment we eventually find an enormous hole. When we prove that to the Government it says: 'We did not really mean that', and it goes off and produces another amendment. The fact is that this legislation has enormous industrial relations ramifications. It will have massive industrial relations implications if it is passed. It should be torn up. If the Government will not withdraw the legislation entirely, then it should at least send it to the National Labour Consultative Council. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
On how many occasions has the Victorian edition of the ABC program  The Country Hour  had as speakers, 
Members of the Federal Parliament, 
Members of any State Parliament, 
Federal or State office holders of 
the Liberal Party 
the National Country Party and 
the Australian Labor Party  in the last year. 
-I second the motion,  Mr Speaker.  The fact is that the 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, with respect I would like to make the point that what is before the Committee at each stage of its consideration of the Bill is a clause. A clause of the Bill is put up for discussion. If the Minister moves amendments, those amendments certainly are up for discussion also. But the clause is what is being discussed. At the end of the debate on each clause, the question that is put is that the clause be agreed to. Surely Opposition members are entitled to discuss what is contained in the original Bill in relation to each clause as it comes up for discussion. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  am bending over backwards to allow honourable members to do so; but I think that the laws of debate really mean that honourable members should debate the amendment, either for or against it. However, I will not press the point for the time being. 
Clauses negatived. 
Clause 12. 
Section 54 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 
Where, in the opinion of a member of the Commission, a matter concerning the safety of employees or of other persons in or about a place of work arises in or in connexion with an industrial dispute, he may request the Director to arrange for an authorized person to investigate the matter and to report to the member of the Commission as soon as practicable. '. 
-The Opposition opposes this amendment simply because it still seeks to include the definition of 'Bureau'. We will be opposing all amendments that seek to incorporate the Industrial Relations Bureau into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Of course, we do not object to the omission of paragraphs 
and (e), which relate to the definitions of employee' and 'industrial action'. I said at the second reading stage that we regard the definition of 'employee' as being substantially adverse to the ability of trade unions to encompass persons who may well wish to be members of trade unions but who would have been unable to be so, particularly in the States of Victoria and Tasmania, if the Government had proceeded with this new definition. The definition of 'industrial action' did widen the issue quite substantially from strikes and other bans and limitations to a much broader definition. We certainly would have been taking objection to that, too. But our objection to this amendment is simply on the ground that the clause as amended would still include the definitions of 'authorised person', 'Bureau' and 'Director'. We will be opposing all amendments that seek to include the Bureau in the Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5- by leave- taken together. 
Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), after paragraph (a), the following paragraphs: (aa) being a person in respect of whom there is in force a certificate under section 144a. is not a member of an organization: (ab) has notified a matter to the Bureau or has given information to. or otherwise assisted the Bureau:  (ac) has refused or failed to join in industrial action; '; 
by inserting in sub-section ( 1a), after paragraph (a), the following paragraphs: (aa) with the intent to dissuade or prevent the employee from notifying a matter to the Bureau or giving information to, or otherwise assisting, the Bureau; (ab) with the intent to coerce the employee to join in industrial action: '; 
by inserting after sub-section ( lA) the following subsections: (1b) An employer shall not threaten to dismiss an employee, being a person in respect of whom there is in force a certificate under section1 44a, or to injure such an employee in his employment or to alter the position of such an employee to his prejudice, with intent to coerce the employee to join an organization. 
Penalty: $400. ( lc) An employer shall not refuse to employ a person in employment by reason of the circumstance that the person, being a person in respect of whom there is in force a certificate under section 144a, is not a member of an organization. 
Penalty: $400.'; 
by inserting in sub-section (4), after the words reason for', the words ', the intent of,'; and 
by inserting in sub-section (4), after the word reason' (second occurring), the words 'or intent'. 
After section 5 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 5a. (1 ) An organization- 
shall not advise, encourage or incite an employer to take action in relation to a person that would, if taken, be a contravention of sub-section ( 1 ), ( lA), (1b) or (lC) of section 5; 
shall not advise, encourage or incite a person (whether an employer or not) to take discriminatory action against an eligible person by reason of the circumstance that the eligible person is not a member of the organization; 
shall not take, or threaten to take, industrial action against an employer- 
with the intent to coerce the employer to take action in relation to a person that would, if taken, be a contravention of sub-section (1 ), ( 1a), (1b) or(1C) of section 5; or 
with the intent to coerce the employer to take discriminatory action against an eligible person by reason of the circumstance that the eligible person is not a member of the organization: 
shall not take, or threaten to take, industrial action against an eligible person, being an employer, with the intent to coerce him to join the organization: 
shall not take, or threaten to take, any action having the effect, directly or indirectly, of prejudicing a person in his employment, being a person in respect of whom there is in force a certificate under section 144a, with the intent to coerce the person to join the organization; 
shall not take, or threaten to take, any action having the effect, directly or indirectly, of prejudicing a person in his employment- 
with the intent to dissuade or prevent the person from notifying a matter to the Bureau or giving information to, or otherwise assisting, the Bureau; or 
with the intent to coerce the person to join in industrial action: 
shall not impose, or threaten to impose, a penalty, forfeiture or disability of any kind upon a member of the organization- 
with the intent to dissuade or prevent the member from notifying a matter to the Bureau or giving information to, or otherwise assisting, the Bureau: or 
with the intent to coerce the member to join in industrial action; or 
shall not impose, or threaten to impose, a penalty, forfeiture or disability of any kind upon a member of the organization by reason of the circumstance that the member has refused or failed to join in industrial action. 
A contravention of sub-section (1) is an offence against that sub-section punishable, upon conviction, by- 
where the action constituting the offence has continued for more than a day- a penalty not exceeding a fine of $400 for each day during which that action has continued: or 
in any other case- a penalty not exceeding a fine of $400. 
In any proceedings for an offence against sub-section (1 ), if all the relevant facts and circumstances, other thanthe reason or intent set out in the charge as being the reason or intent of an action alleged in the charge, are proved, it lies upon the person charged to prove that that action was not actuated by that reason or taken with that intent. 
For the purposes of this section, an action taken by- 
the committee of management ofan organization: 
the committee of management of a branch ofan organization; 
an officer, employee or agent ofan organization: 
agroupof members ofan organization; or 
a member ofan organization who performs the function of dealing with an employer on behalf of himself and other members of the organization. shall be deemed to have been taken by the organization. 
In thissection- 
 Discriminatory action', in relation to an eligible person, means- 
to refuse to make use of. or to refuse to agree to make use or, any service offered by the eligible person: or 
to refuse to supply, or to refuse to agree to supply, goods or services to the eligible person; eligible person' means a person who- 
is engaged in activities in an industry, otherwise than as an employee: and 
by reason of being so engaged, is. or would if he were an employee be eligible to join an organization.'. 
Amendment (by  Mr Street)  proposed: 
Omit the clauses. 
-The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  had a few words to say about double standards. I ask him to look at section 5A (4) in the Bill, which states: 
For the purposes of this section, an action taken by- 
a ) the committee of management ofan organisation; 
the committee of management of a branch of an organisation; 
an officer, employee or agent of an organisation; 
a group of members ofan organisation; or 
a member of an organisation who performs the function of dealing with an employer on behalf of himself and other members of the organisation, shall be deemed to have been taken by the organisation. 
In that case, for the purposes of this legislation, if a group of members of an organisation take action then the union itself will be deemed to have taken the action. In the trade practices legislation, however, an entirely different test is applied. Section 84(2) of the Trade Practices Act deems to be conduct of a body corporate only that conduct which is engaged in on behalf of the body corporate by a director, agent or servant of the body corporate or by any other person at the direction or with the consent or agreement of a director, agent or servant of the body corporate. So in the Trade Practices Act, when it comes to catching the actions of business corporations the Government regards as a necessary test whether the conduct was on behalf of a particular enterprise or whether it was at the direction of persons normally controlling the enterprise. When it comes to the matter of catching trade unions, any action by a group of trade unionists will catch the whole union. When the honourable member talks about double standards he should try dealing with that one. 
Clauses negatived. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 1 1- by leave- taken together. 
Section 20 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: 
Where the Commission, in dealing with an industrial dispute, is satisfied that- 
the inclusion in an award of procedures for preventing or settling, by discussion and agreement, further disputes between the parties or any of them as to industrial matters would encourage the achievement of industrial peace between the parties or such of them as are to be bound by the procedures; and 
there is no prospect of such procedures being included in accordance with sub-section (1 ), the Commission may formulate such procedures to be binding on the parties or on some of the parties and include the procedures so formulated in any award made in settlement of the dispute.'. 
Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-section (2), after the word award', the words 'or to the Bureau'; 
by inserting in sub-section (2), after the word organization' (last occurring), the words 'or the Bureau'; 
by inserting in sub-section (4), after the word 'award' (first occurring), the words 'or to the Bureau '; and 
by inserting in sub-section (4), after the word 'person' (last occurring), the words 'or the Bureau '. 
Section 45 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section ( 2 ) and substituting the following paragraphs: 
that industrial action is being taken or the taking of industrial action is threatened, pending or probable: and 
) that the cessation or prevention of the industrial action, or the settlement of the matters giving rise to the industrial action, would or might be encouraged or assisted by ascertaining the views or the attitudes of the members, or of a section or class of the members, of the organization concerned, or a branch of that organization, in relation to the matter,': and 
by omitting sub-section (5). 
After section 46 of the Principal Act, the following section is inserted: 46a. (1 ) Where persons claiming to be members of an organization and to be employed by an employer notify the Bureau that- 
the organization, or a group of members of the organization, is taking, is threatening to take or has directed the taking of industrial action against that employer; and 
those persons are opposed to that industrial action, the Bureau shall, subject to sub-section (2), investigate and report to the Commission, on the claims made by those persons that they are members of that organization and arc employed by that employer. 
The Bureau is not required to make an investigation in relation to notifications received under sub-section (1 ) if the Bureau is satisfied that- 
the industrial action specified in the notifications is not occurring and will not occur; 
the industrial action specified in the notifications has ceased; or 
the industrial action specified in the notifications will have ceased before the Bureau is able to complete any investigation and make its report to the Commission. 
) In a notification referred to in sub-section (1 )- 
a person who is not, at the time of the notification, a member of an organization shall not claim that he is a member of that organization; and 
a person who is not, at the time of the notification, employed by an employer shall not claim that he is employed by that employer. 
Penalty: $200. 
Subject to sub-section (5), a report made by the Bureau to the Commission under sub-section (1 ) shall set out the position at the time when the report is made with respect to the following matters: 
the nature of the industrial action: 
the name of the organization, or the names of the organizations, concerned; 
the name of the employer, or the names of the employers, concerned; 
the address of the place of work of each of the persons who sent the notifications; 
the number of those notifications. 
The Bureau- 
is not required to include in a report under subsection ( 1 ) particulars of any matter set out in paragraph (c) or (d) of sub-section (4) if it is not practicable to do so; and 
shall not include in a report under sub-section (1) any particulars that might enable the identity of a person who sent a notification to which the report relates to be discovered. 
Where the Commission receives a report from the Bureau under sub-section ( 1 ), the Commission- 
shall direct the Industrial Registrar to send a copy of the report to the organization, or to each of the organizations, to which the report relates; and 
shall, at such time and in such manner as it thinks appropriate, make the report public. '. 
1. Section 47 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) and substituting the following sub-section: 
Where the Commission has, under sub-section ( 1 ), directed by an award or order, that preference shall be given to members of an organization of employees, an employer bound by the award or order is not required, by reason of the award or order, to give preference to members of the organization over a person in respect of whom there is in force a certificate issued under section 144a.'. 
Amendment (by  Mr Street)  proposed: 
Omit the clauses. 
I do not want to delay the House on these matters since they are being withdrawn, but I wish to direct attention to clause 8 of the Bill relating to the amendment of section 33. This would have been a terribly important change to the Act if it had gone through. It would have meant that the Bureau would have been able to initiate proceedings for the imposition of penalties on a union for breach of a bans clause. As I understand the current legislation, the Inspectorate nominally does have the power to launch such a prosecution once a certificate has been issued but it does not have the power to seek a certificate. This provision would have given the Bureau the power to seek a certificate and therefore join the parties to the award in being able to seek a certificate and initiate the penal procedures. The fact is that since 1969 the whole process of penalising unions for breaches of bans clauses has been in abeyance. The employers of this country have not seen fit to seek such certificates due to the actions of the union movement in 1969 when they finally declared that they were totally against complying with this section of the Act. They thought it was totally unfair, and indeed its operation had been very adverse to the trade union movement and had involved unions in very heavy fines during the previous decade and a half. This provision not only would have enabled the Bureau to seek a certificate and therefore initiate the penal process but it would also, by amendment to a later section of the Act, have given the Bureau the statutory obligation to seek such certificates because it has the statutory obligation to ensure compliance with the Act and with awards. The Bureau would therefore have been obliged to seek certificates, as I understand the legislation. By passing the Bill in the form in which it was originally presented to the House, the Government would have re-imposed the whole system of applying penal clauses against the union movement. That would not have been an isolated instance. The Bureau would have been involved full scale in the business of seeking penal action against trade unions in this country. 
-We oppose the amendment because we do not wish to see the Inspectorate removed from the Act. The Opposition objects to the repeal of section 125 under which the Inspectorate is established and notes particularly that once section 125 is removed from the Act what goes with it is section 125(4) which states: 
An Inspector shall have such duties in relation to the observance of this Act and the regulations and of any award as the Minister directs. 
What that means in effect is that the Inspectorate is under ministerial control and in relation to launching prosecutions for any breach of the Act, regulations or awards is subject to ministerial control. This has meant in the past that the Inspectorate has not sought to prosecute employees or unions for breaches of the Act. 
Section 138 is an appalling section which relates to incitment to strike. If a body were established literally to look for every breach of the Act many employees in this country could be prosecuted daily for breaching section 138 relating to incitement to strike. Any one who encouraged anyone else to go on strike could be prosecuted under that section. The fact is that the Inspectorate has not been encouraged by any Minister that I am aware of to launch prosecutions against employees for breach of that section, but once we remove ministerial control and establish a body which has a statutory obligation to secure compliance with the Act and which is left free from ministerial control, we will have established a situation which will provide for a government agency to launch prosecutions of employees for breaches of the Act wherever they occur. This would mean in effect that not only would there be a duty on a body such as the Bureau, which will take the place of the Inspectorate to be repealed by clause 1 8, but also that the Bureau would have the power, obligation and duty to launch prosecutions against unions for breaches of bans clauses. 
So we regard the removal of ministerial control as a terribly important factor. As I said in my speech in the second reading stage, the removal of ministerial control in our view is a breach of the agreement between the Australian Council of 
Trade Unions, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the Government, and a breach of the statement made by the Minister on 17 May when he said that the Bureau would have the same powers as the Inspectorate- no more and no less- and that the processes would be the same. The fact is that by the abolition of the Inspectorate and the abolition of ministerial control factor we are giving the Bureau far more power than the Inspectorate had thus creating a quite different situation and, as I said, breaching the agreement the Government reached with the unions. 
-Clause 19 is the provision which establishes the Industrial Relations Bureau. It is strongly opposed by the Opposition. We oppose it in its original form and in its amended form. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said in his agreement with the unions that the Bureau would have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate and that it would utilise the same processes. If it is to be a mere name change one cannot really see the reason for bothering to make the change. If it is a mere name change why go through all that bother? We oppose it on that ground. But in fact what the Government is seeking to do here is to give the Bureau more powers than applied to the Inspectorate. As I have mentioned already, the Bureau as established by clause 19 would be under the control of its director but would not be under the control of the Minister. 
In his second reading speech the Minister tried to make out that control of the Bureau by the director was equivalent to control of the Inspectorate by the Minister. But of course that is a total nonsense. The fact is that the Inspectorate, being under the control of the Minister, is under the control of the person who is very much concerned with the industrial relations environment. He is not only concerned with compliance with the awards and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act but he is concerned also with the industrial relations environment in Australia. Successive Ministers for Labour have seen fit to instruct the Inspectorate not to take action against employees and unions for various breaches. If the Bureau is established in the form now proposed under clause 19 it will have a director and it will have an obligation- it would have no control by the Minister- to secure the observance of the Act, regulations and awards. The Bureau will also be provided with the power to institute proceedings before any court for an offence against the Act or the regulations. So what seems to be happening here is that the Bureau is being established with a statutory obligation to secure compliance with the Act, the regulations and awards and to take court action where breaches become known to it. 
That is a terribly important change in powers and it will lead to a change in the processes. That is completely against the agreement reached by the Minister with the unions. That is not just some minor thing. In our view the fact that there has been this breach and that the unions will see it as a serious breach means in effect that the Government will have a massive industrial relations problem on its hands. The agreement will be virtually torn up and we will be back to the situation where the Australian Council of Trade Unions on 4 May threatened massive economic dislocation of the country if the Government went ahead with these measures. That is the situation that will face Australia if the Government goes through with the introduction of this clause as it is proposed to be amended. If the Government is really concerned with the industrial relations environment, sticking by its word and providing that the Bureau has the same powers, no more or less, and abides by the same procedures and processes it will amend the Act so that the Bureau is subject to ministerial control. 
If the Government does not do that the only assumption can be that it intends the Bureau to be at large, to be quite independent of Government control with a statutory obligation to look for penalties for any breaches of the Act or awards. In that case we will see massive industrial relations dislocation in Australia and the ACTU and other union organisations certainly will not stand idly by and watch those prosecutions occur. I ask the Minister to think seriously about what he is doing here. In our view- we are not just putting this lightly- it is a serious breach of the agreement. If he is really concerned with the industrial relations environment and wishes to avoid confrontation he will have to amend the Bill before it passes so that the Bureau is subject to ministerial control. 
-The Opposition opposes the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1977, both in the form in which it has been presented to this House and in the form in which it will be after it has been amended by the Government. We do not oppose the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council. However, in the Committee stage we will be moving a couple of amendments relating to the membership provisions of the National Labour Consultative Council Bill. 
We oppose the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill because we regard it, in its original form- in the form in which it is now before the House- as a totally repugnant piece of legislation that is aimed at reducing the unions in this country to a state of industrial impotence. We regard it as one of the most repugnant pieces of legislation ever brought before this Parliament by any government. After this Bill was first put before the Parliament it was considered by the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and that body passed a resolution threatening massive dislocation of the economic life of the nation if this legislation were proceeded with. That is a very serious resolution indeed for a body such as the ACTU to pass. The reason why it did so was that this legislation was so fundamental to the very ability of the trade union movement to carry out any effective representation on behalf of its members. 
I think the we should look first at the environment in which this legislation was introduced. It was, in a sense, the culmination of a whole series of attacks upon both the trade union movement and the employee section of the Australian community. Since this Government took office there has been a continuing attack on the level of real wages, stemming from the breach early in 1976 of the promise to support wage indexation and the consequent continuing reduction in the level of real wages through the Government's pressure on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to give less than full wage indexation. In four of the last five national wage cases less than full wage indexation has been applied. Furthermore, the Government has threatened, through statements made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  to introduce a Bill based on the corportations power that would prevent companies from granting increases in wages outside those increases given through the wage indexation system. 
We also have had the introduction of legislation designed drastically to affect the operations of trade unions, namely the Trade Practices Amendment Bill. Though that legislation has been changed many times, in the form in which it has now passed through the House of Representatives it is still a very severe inhibition upon the ability of trade unions to operate. It will cover a very substantial amount of industrial activity and lay unions open to very substantial penalties indeed. In addition, the Government announced recently the setting up of an inquiry into trade union training, which is in its infancy. The terms of reference of that inquiry seem to indicate that the Government intends to launch a very severe attack upon the trade union training system as it has begun to operate. In that situation the unions were then faced with a Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that in many respects would have reduced them to a state of total impotence. In brief, the legislation would have had the effect upon unions of weakening them numerically and financially, of fostering dissension within their ranks, of destroying their bargaining power and of subjecting them to harassment and interference by an industrial police force. 
I think that it is appropriate at this stage for me to spend some time on considering exactly what this Government had proposed to do, even though many of those provisions are now to be withdrawn. Firstly, in relation to weakening the unions numerically and financially by facilitating and encouraging non-unionism, it was going to do this by allowing conscientious objection to being a union member to be claimed by an employee for any reason. Under the Act as it currently stands, a conscientious objection certificate can be granted only where there is a preference clause in the award applying to an industry. This legislation would have greatly extended this provision by providing that an employee would be able to claim a conscientious objection certificate from the Industrial Registrar, whether or not he was employed under an award which included a preference clause. Given the very wide definition of 'conscientious objection', it meant that many employees would have been able to claim conscientious objection and therefore not need to be members of a union. 
Furthermore, employees would have been given a financial incentive to claim conscientious objection because, unlike the current Act which says that if a person claims conscientious objection he has to pay an amount equivalent to the union fee into Consolidated Revenue, that provision was to be wiped out. So there was financial gain for employees in claiming conscientious objection. That would have meant in the case of weak unions in particular a very substantial possibility that they would have lost a vast number of their membership. This was the case because if a union, or any union member, were to take any action or place any pressure whatever to induce a person who claimed conscientious objection to join the union, the union would be deemed to be liable and be open to a fine of $400. A similar provision applied in relation to employers. 
Furthermore, certain other persons, such as independent contractors, would have been substantially restricted in their ability to be union members. In some States- in Victoria and Tasmaniait seems they would have been prohibited altogether from being members of a federally registered union. So these provisions went to the heart of union membership. They were making sure there was an inducement and encouragement for people to get out of unions and they also prohibited some persons from being members of unions. Of course, if the numerical strength of unions was to be weakened, so too was their financial strength. In both respects the trade union movement would have been seriously weakened. 
The second important way in which this Bill sought to undermine trade unions was in relation to weakening the solidarity of unions through encouraging dissident members to undermine union action. It did this, for instance, by prohibiting a union from taking or threatening to take any action against a member to coerce him to take part in industrial action of for refusing or failing to take part in industrial action. What this meant was that dissident union members who did not want to be involved in a particular union action decided on by the properly constituted union leadership or the majority of the union were able not only to express their objection to that action but also not take part in it. If any pressure whatever was put on the members to try to make them abide by the decision of the union that would have made the union liable to a penalty of $400 a day. This provision has been described by one person as the deification of the scab. It also provided for dissendent union members to notify the Industrial Relations Bureau of their opposition to any action or proposed action by their union and for the Bureau, after investigation, to report such notification to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and for the Commission then to make that report public. So quite clearly this was another means of intimidation, of trying to put some public pressure on the union movement by showing that there was a number of people who were dissatisfied with the action being taken by the union. It was a count of those who disagreed, not a count of those who agreed, which is a rather curious way of going about things. 
The third way in which the Bill sought to attack the unions was by emasculating their bargaining strength in industrial disputes. The legislation did this in a number of ways. First, it did it by providing the Bureau with the power to notify the registrar of the contravention of a bans clause in an award thereby initiating procedures by which unions may be fined for engaging in strikes or other industrial action. The Act presently provides for the parties only to give such notice. So it was in fact up to the employers to initiate action to set the penal processes in train. Of course, that has not been done since 1969 when it was done in the O'Shea affair. What the Government was doing through this provision was changing the process so that the government agency, the Industrial Relations Bureau, would be able to recommence the process of imposing penalties on unions for engaging in industrial action. Of course, the penalties which are currently in the Act, which we sought to take out at least twice when we were in government, provide for fines of $1,000 or alternatively $500 a day. May I say in relation to those penal clauses for breach of a bans clause, that in the period 1957 to 1969, which was the key period in which they were effective, the unions were fined more than $280,000 in this country plus costs which would have amounted to a similar sum, whilst the employees were fined just over $2,000. There is no doubt that this area of fines operated very substantially to the detriment of the trade union movement. 
The legislation before the House also sought to provide that the Bureau could apply for the Arbitration Commission to suspend or cancel an award. It also provided for the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Director of the Bureau to be listed amongst those who can seek deregistration of a union. It provided further grounds for deregistration which were very extensive indeed. One was where a union was engaged in industrial action which prevented, hindered or interfered with trade or commerce with other countries or among the States. That, of course, would cover a wide array of industrial action. 
Another ground for deregistration was where a union engaged in industrial action that prevented or hindered or interfered with the provision of any public service of the Commonwealth or State. Another ground for deregistration was where a union had engaged in the conduct of activities not authorised by or in accordance with its rules. It appeared that that provision was aimed at strikes and bans which had a social or political aim, such as protecting the environment, protesting about the Medibank rearrangement, a particular war or whatever. Strikes of this sort are, of course, relatively rare. The other provisions relating to trade or commerce and the provision of public service were very important additions to the grounds for deregistration. 
The legislation also provided additional penalties which would have been available to the Federal court to apply as an alternative to imposing fines or gaol for breach of an order, a court order or the Act or instead of deregistration of a union. These alternative penalties would have been to suspend the rights, privileges or capacities of the union, or all of a section of its members, the power to suspend a union officer or officers, power to give direction as to the exercise of any rights, privileges or capacities that had been suspended and power to restrict the use of union funds or property. Such penalties as these are almost unbelievable. What they amounted to was saying that the Federal court would have been able virtually to take over a union by suspending its officers, controlling its funds and directing its operations. These powers would have been available to the court whenever a union was, say, in breach of a bans clause. Instead of applying the fine or seeking deregistration there could have been the operation of these alternative penalties of taking over the trade union. This takeover could have occurred for up to 6 months. But then that 6 months period was renewable on application by the Bureau. So in fact what was being proposed was giving the court the ability to take over a union almost indefinitely. So long as the Bureau kept reapplying and showing to the satisfaction of the court that there were grounds for the court to continue its suspension of the union and /or its officers, the court could continue to make that order. So the union would be suspended indefinitely. It is an incredible situation that a union could be taken over by a court for as long as it and the Government thought fit. 
Furthermore, the effect of the legislation was that all the members of a union or a certain group of members or some individual members could be deprived of their rights to hold any position in the union or to nominate for any position in the union. That provision seems to us to be remarkable. The severity of these alternate penalties and the fact that they would be available to the court whenever it found a union in breach of the Act or award means that these provisions could have been used completely to shackle the trade union movement. Of course, it was also provided that there was a penalty for noncompliance with a suspension order of $400 per day or 6 months' gaol or both. Furthermore, the Commission had the power to seek a secret ballot of union members to ascertain their views as to certain existing or threatened industrial action in which they were involved. The present Act provides for such ballots in a very limited form. The legislation sought to extend that provision. 
Furthermore, the legislation sought to establish a bureau which would have been able to harass and interfere with the trade union movement in many respects. Staff of the Bureau would have been able to enter union offices at any time they deemed necessary to inspect any books or documents; to require a union to make available any books or documents the Bureau wished to inspect; to require a union officer, employee, agent or returning officer to make available to the Director of the Bureau any information he may require; to require the attendance of a union officer, employee, agent or returning officer before the Director or an authorised member of his staff and for such person to produce all books, documents and papers in his custody which may be required. 
As I understand the situation this power of compulsion to appear before the Director gave the Bureau a greater power than civilian police currently have in this country, without laying a charge on a person. So this is a very extensive power. Refusing to abide by an order of the Director to be summonsed to his presence means that a union official, agent or whatever could have been liable to a fine of $500 or to 6 months gaol. The Director of the Bureau would have been entirely independent and under this amended Bill he will still be independent. He will be a political appointee, so presumably he will be appointed to carry out actions which the Government really wants. Also, that person would have had a wide range of powers under the Bill as it was put before the House in the first place. 
He would not have been obliged- he still will not be obliged by the amended Bill- to have regard to objectives laid down in the current Act such as promoting goodwill in industry, encouraging conciliation, providing for the means of settling disputes or encouraging the organisation of employees into trade unions. The Director does not seem to be required to pay regard to those objectives of the Act. He is required only to ensure that there is no breach of, or that there is compliance with, the Act and the regulations in awards. That is a rough summation of what the Bill, originally put before the House, proposed. It was extremely drastic legislation and therefore brought from the executive of the ACTU at the meeting on 4 May the decision to which I referred earlier. Of course, the Opposition endorses entirely the attitude of the trade union movement in relation to that legislation. It is totally repugnant legislation and we oppose it with the greatest of our ability. It was opposed not only by the unions and the Australian Labor Party, but also by the employers. As the Minister said in his statement today, the employers in discussion with him did not support the legislation. 

-The Minister says that that is not true. My understanding of what happened is that when the employers went to see the Minister they expressed their disagreement with the legislation which the Minister had put before the House. The Minister in the statement which he has just made to the House said: 
The national employers, while not completely supporting the propositions put by the ACTU and stressing their view of the need to retain strong enforcement provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. indicated that they believed that the ACTU's change of attitude in regard to the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau and participation in a tripartite consultative body were significant developments and their implications warranted serious consideration by the Government. 
That certainly seems to me to be saying that the employers thought that the Government should have substantial second thoughts about the Bill which it had put before the House. I also refer to a statement made by an employer, namely, the Australian Industries Development Association. It is an employer lobby group in the heavy manufacturing industry area. In its March publication in relation to the legislation it stated: 
The original proposal for the IRB to act on its own initiative would represent further interference by Government in industry, in this case meddling in the industrial policies of business. There would be a danger that the IRB, acting on its own initiative, may frustrate the delicate process of conciliation and compromise being pursued by employers. For example, where a firm does not take action against unions under the present legislation due to the fear of union reprisals, it is unlikely to welcome IRB action which will provoke the same union reaction. In such a case the IRB would have the effect of increasing industrial disputation, at the expense of industry. 
The IRB concept is aimed, in part, at re-establishing penal clauses as a working feature of its industrial relations policy. The aim of Government in industrial relations preferably should be to settle industrial disputes and not to attach consequences' to them. 
The proposed legislation would not solve the problem of enforcing penalties. Industrial relations legislation already has penal provisions included. If the penalties proposal merely has the effect of increasing the range and seventy of unenforceable penalties it would serve no practical purpose. 
The company was quite adamant in its belief that this legislation was totally inappropriate. But it is not alone in that belief. In fact, the staff of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has expressed its total opposition to the concept of the Bureau. I refer to  the Aus.tralian Financial Review  of 3 May. The article, under the heading: 'Public servants may boycott IRB 'states: 
The Government is facing the prospect of a boycott by Federal Public Service unions over the move to establish an Industrial Relations Bureau. 
Feelings against the bureau is particularly strong within the Depanment of Employment and Industrial Relations, which will largely be responsible for staffing the new authority. 
A recent meeting of the Department's central office section committee of the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association, resolved that it was 'totally opposed to the establishment of the IRB.' 
The section committee went on to move that the union's Victorian branch be asked to advise on what action could be  taken 'to  black ban positions created for the Bureau'. 
I emphasise that this is being said by the section of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations- 
-Will the Minister let me make my own speech. This was said by the staff of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations at a recent meeting of the Department's central office section committee. The central office, of course, is where all the policy makers in the Department are found. It is a statement from a section which includes the policymaking section of the Department and it is expressing total disagreement with the establishment of the IRB. So we can see how much support this matter has from the Minister's Department. Furthermore, the Arbitration Inspectors' Association has made it clear that it thinks that the establishment of the Bureau is an absurdity.  Mr I.  G. Kidd, the  President  of the Association, was quoted in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 May. The article states:   he believed that as it stood, the legislation would be largely unworkable. 
In this respect,  Mr Kidd  said his members would not bc happy about interfering in the internal conduct of union affairs, and raised some doubts about whether this aspect of the legislation would be effective. 
So it is not just a matter of the Opposition saying these things. The employers are against the Bureau and members of the Minister's own Department are against it. The Arbitration Inspectors' Association sees a lot of problems with it. Since that time we have had various developments. I wish now to go to those because they are important in relation to the amendments which will be moved in the Committee stage. What is proposed in the Government's foreshadowed amendments is that various provisions of the Bill will be excluded. Practically all the original Bill will be excluded except those clauses involving the establishment of the Bureau. This, in large measure, gives effect to the agreement reached between the ACTU and the Government but, in our view, it does not do this entirely. In our view the amendments proposed by the Government do not give full effect to the agreement. If the Bill is passed in its current form then, in our view, the Government will be in breach of the agreement which it reached with the ACTU. Before I come to this aspect I stress that the Government has also been involved in an enormous back-down in relation to its original proposals. The fact is that the Government has withdrawn just about the whole of its original legislation. It has withdrawn all the so-called rights of individuals clauses, all the new penal provisions and some of the more horrendous parts of the Bureau's operations have been withdrawn. 
In large measure the Government has backed off on this legislation. We applaud that. However, it is a fact that the Bill as amended will not give full effect to the agreement. I refer briefly to what was said by the ACTU and the Government to be the agreement as they understood it. The ACTU made it clear when it was putting its proposition to the Government that there should be no explicit or implicit addition to the existing provisions or processes. That is what it put when it said that it would agree to the establishment of the Bureau. In accepting that, the Government said that the Industrial Relations Bureau would have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more and no less, and that those powers would be exercised according to the same processes as they have been until now. In our view, that is not what is going to happen under this legislation. The effect of the Bill now before the House will be to abolish the Arbitration Inspectorate and establish the Bureau. The Bureau will have a statutory function to secure observance of the Act, the regulations and awards. It will have the power to institute court proceedings for an offence but, unlike the Inspectorate, it will not be subject to ministerial control in respect of prosecutions. That is an important difference, in our view. It will not be subject to ministerial control in respect of prosecutions. The Bureau will be at large, so to speak, not subject to ministerial control, and that is a change in the powers. That is not setting up a body which has exactly the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate. It is a body which is not subject to ministerial control. It is a body which is totally independent of the Minister. Yet the Minister tried to make out in the statement he delivered today that it will be subject to the Director. That is just a nonsensical comment because the fact is that the Bureau as such will be independent and will not be subject to ministerial control, and therefore there is a change in the powers. 
The Bureau, like the Inspectorate, will have the power to prosecute unions for breach of a bans clause and to prosecute employees for breaches of the Act such as incitement to strike. Prosecution by the Inspectorate and by the Bureau for breach of a bans clause, of course, will be taken only after a certificate has been issued, but the Inspectorate has not used these powers. The fact is that the Inspectorate has not been involved in prosecuting where a certificate has been issued for breach of a bans clause. The Inspectorate has not been involved in prosecuting employees for breaches of provisions of the Act such as section 1 38, incitement to strike, and if it is now to start doing so, as it will be obliged to do under this amended Bill because it has a statutory requirement under the Bill to ensure that there is compliance with the Act, the regulations and the awards, there will be a change in the processes. That will certainly be the understanding of the trade union movement, I assume. It is certainly our feeling that it would be a very substantial change indeed in the processes. So the Government is changing the powers in respect of the Bureau by freeing it from ministerial control and it is then obliging the Bureau, by statutory requirement that it secure compliance with the awards, to change the processes. The unions will surely regard that as a breach of the agreement, and I do not know where that leaves us. It is for the union movement to make up its own mind on what it is going to do if the Government persists in pursuing that matter in the debate today. I hope that the Government will scrap the whole idea of the Bureau. We object to the Bureau, whether the agreement is complied with entirely or not, but I hope that if the Government is not going to scrap the Bureau it will at least make sure that the Bureau is subject to the same powers and processes which it agreed with the unions in the first place would be the case. 
If I could sum up briefly, we oppose the establishment of the Bureau because we deem it to be totally unnecessary. It is a face saving device for the Government. We also oppose it because it is a breach of the agreement and does not provide the same powers and processes which the Inspectorate had. It is a breach of the agreement reached between the unions and the Government. In respect of the National Labour Consultative Council, we support the establishment of that body. In the Committee stage we will be moving amendments to the membership provisions, but I would make the point that the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council is something which is being brought about at the suggestion of the union movement rather than the Government. 
I have an amendment to clause 6, which states: 
1 ) The Council shall consist of 16 members, namely- 
the Minister, who shall be the  Chairman  of the Council: 
the Secretary; 
a member chosen by the Minister to represent publicauthorities as employers: 
6 members nominated by the National Employers' Policy Committee: 
6 members nominated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions: and 
a member nominated by the Council of Australian 
Government Employee Organisations. 
The members, other than the Minister and the Secretary shallbe appointed by the Minister. 
I move: 
Omit the clause substitute the following clause: 6. (1) The Council shall consist of 16 members namely- 
the Minister who shall be the  Chairman  of the Council: 
the Secretary: 
a member chosen by the Minister to represent public authorities as employers: 
6 members nominated by the National Employers' Policy Committee: 
5 members nominated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions: 
a member nominated by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations: and 
a member nominated by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. 
The members other than the Minister and the Secretary, shall be appointed by the Minister provided that in the case of nominated members, appointment by the Minister shall be on the nomination of the organisations concerned. ' 
Basically, the Opposition seeks to do two things by this amendment. Firstly, we feel that the composition of the membership of the Council is unfair in the way it is prescribed in the Bill. It refuses any representation to one of the 3 peak councils of the trade union movement, the organisation known as the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. ACSPA, as it is known, is an important peak council. It covers quite a number of so-called white collar organisations and represents in a way that no other organisation does the trade union organisations in the white collar area. Some organisations affiliated with ACSPA are affiliated to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and some are affiliated to CAGEO, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. But there are important bodies which are not affiliated to either of those organisations which are affiliated to ACSPA. In my view, it is quite contrary to the spirit of the composition of the National Labour Consultative Council to leave out such organisations, which will be done if ACSPA is not included. 
In his speech the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has given absolutely no reason for excluding ACSPA. The Opposition therefore believes that there is an obligation on the Minister to say in this debate why ACSPA is being excluded, and his reasons would have to be very good indeed. I assume that it is a deliberate omission, and I think the Minister ought to consider the industrial relations consequences of excluding an important peak council. It will clearly create jealousies, and some disaffection on the part of ACSPA. I do not think it does any good for industrial relations in this country to establish a consultative council of all the important organisations and then exclude one of them. It may be that ACSPA has been excluded in some measure for reasons of spite. It may be that the Government had some reason to exclude ACSPA because of late that organisation has not agreed with its policies. It certainly cannot be because the Government believes that ACSPA is not in favour of the National Labour Consultative Council. Within the last few days ACSPA passed a resolution at its executive which supported the recomposition of the National Labour Advisory Council, or the Consultative Council, as it is now to be known. So ACSPA does support the establishment of this body, and to leave out the organisation I think is quite wrong. 
The other part of the amendment I have moved relates to appointment being by the Minister. Subsection (2 ) of proposed section 6 reads: 
The members, other than the Minister and the Secretary, shall be appointed by the Minister. 
That leaves it open to the Minister to veto the nomination of an organisation, and we do not think that that should be the situation. In the Trade Union Training Authority Act 1975, where there is nomination by the various organisations to the Australian Council of Trade Union Training, there is reference in relation to the ACTU to 3 members appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the ACTU. The Minister is obliged to accept the members nominated by the organisation. That is not the situation in this case. The organisations can nominate members to the Council. They are appointed by the Minister but not necessarily on the nomination of the organisation concerned. In this amendment we are adding to the words contained in the Bill the words: 
. provided that in the case of nominated members, appointment by the Minister shall be on the nomination of the organisations concerned. 
If the Minister does not accept this amendment it can be assumed only that he intends to exercise some right of veto over the nominations which will come from the various organisations. I do not think that will assist in any way in bringing about good industrial relations or the harmonious operation of the National Labour Consultative Council. Indeed, if the Minister rejects or vetoes the nomination of a particular organisation it may well be that that body will withdraw altogether from the Council. In any case, it is surely right if you ask a council to be represented to accept the person the council nominates to represent it and not exercise some right of veto over it. I ask the Minister to accept the amendment because it is in the interests of good industrial relations in this country. If he is not going to accept it, then I think he has a clear obligation to tell the Committee why. 
-My question is addressed to the Treasurer and is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Burke. It concerns the Government's promise to reduce unemployment. I ask: Is the Treasurer aware that the number of people unemployed, as recorded by the Commonwealth Employment Service, has increased by 55 000 in the last 12 months? Is he also aware that over the year to March 1977 the number of employed wage and salary earners declined by 5500 while at the same time the population aged fifteen and over increased by approximately 200 000, thereby implying a very substantial increase in unemployment? In view of those figures, will the Treasurer now concede that his Government has failed totally to fulfil its promise to reduce unemployment? Finally, will he answer the question instead of indulging in convoluted irrelevancies? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) How many meetings has (a) the national and (b) each State Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation held since 1 1 November 1975. 
2 ) When and where was each meeting held. 
-The Opposition has raised this matter for discussion today because it believes that this Parliament should consider at the earliest opportunity the appalling display of xenophobia exhibited by a senior Minister over the past week and a half. In a series of speeches, television and radio appearances and newspaper articles the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has vented his prejudice against British migrants who engage in trade union affairs by blaming them for the dire economic straits into which this country is steadily sinking. In making these sinister accusations he has been undeterred by the complete lack of evidence to support his charges and apparently is in no way bothered by the thought that he may be fanning the flames of racial discord and intolerance, which could have devastating implications for a multi-racial society such as Australia is today. However, the Minister has not simply identified the problem as he sees it. He has, in his typically constructive and thoughtful way, proposed solutions to it. He strongly implied that Australian citizens of British origin who get themselves mixed up in strikes should be deported. He said: 
Their interests are not Australian, their origins are not Australian, and one wonders whether action should not be taken against them. 
The clear implication there is that he thought deportation should be applied. One of his more Neanderthal back benchers has since suggested that such deportations should be to the Soviet Union. On further consideration the Minister has recently proposed another solution, that migrants not be allowed to stand for trade union office until they have lived in this country for a number of years. 
The Opposition is disgusted and alarmed that a senior Minister should be allowed to parade his fascist fantasies with the apparent approval of the Government he represents. Furthermore, his claim that he has had amazing support from his parliamentary colleagues for what he has been saying elevates this matter beyond the rankings of an individual Minister to the collective view of the Government parties. That is an extremely serious development in this country, but not altogether surprising. Indeed, it can be seen as the logical development of a campaign of scapegoating that his Government has been pursuing with increasing vigour as the economy collapses around it. As unemployment escalates to increasingly record levels, as inflation continues at double figure rates, as economic growth ceases, as farm income declines alarmingly, as our international reserves run down and as the value of the dollar is greatly depreciated, this Government is becoming increasingly desperate and in its desperation is increasingly anxious to pin the blame for its abysmal failures on the trade union movement. 
Minister after Minister is reported in the Press as blaming the unions for the plight of the nation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in particular fulminates periodically about the need for more legislation to control them. In conducting this vigorous and energetic campaign of buck passing the Government has been entirely undeterred by the fact that the official evidence of strike activity was showing, and continues to show, a very substantial decline in the level of strike action. The first statement by a Government spokesman in recognition of this fact came from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  when he was not in Australia but in Japan. In addressing the JapanAustralia Society in June he was unable to resist the temptation to boast about the extent to which his Government had reduced industrial disputation in this country. He said that, if the rare event of the Medibank national stoppage was excluded, the time lost due to industrial stoppages in 1976 was the lowest since 1968 and that in the March quarter of this year the time lost was the lowest in a March quarter for 5 years and the number of employees involved was the lowest in 10 years, all of which, of course, is true. He was also unable to resist assuring the Japanese audience that the amount of time lost in industrial disputes in Australia was generally less than that due to industrial accidents. That also was true but had not been said by any Minister in Australia up until that time. But it was being said at that time in Japan, not here. 
As all this seemed to be running rather counter to the Government's developing union bash campaign we on this side of the House were interested to see which view would predominatewould the Government ignore these figures except when placating foreigners whom it wanted to invest here and pursue its union denigration campaign or would it change course, stop blaming the unions and emphasise its record in reducing industrial disputation? But the Government has had no trouble in coping with this quandary. It simply incorporated the decline in industrial stoppages into its extremely short list of achievements but continued full bore with its union bashing campaign. 
Thus the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has twice in the last 2 weeks managed to accuse the unions of wrecking the chances of economic recovery and in the course of the same speech to boast about the substantial diminution in the level of industrial disputation. This absolutely blatant attempt to score both ways on the industrial relations issue vividly exposes the paucity of this Government 's response to the abysmal economic mess it has created. Unable to abandon the ideologically appealing approach to blaming the unions it simply continues that line whilst also emphasising a totally contrary argument. Admittedly it is only the Prime Minister who has perfected this technique. Other Ministers are either totally disregarding the decline in industrial disputation, as is the case with the Minister for Primary Industry, and bashing unions with increasing vigour or, in the case of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, a heavy emphasis is being placed on the figures to show what a good job he is doing. 
The spate of attacks on British migrants by the Minister for Primary Industry last week cannot, therefore, be viewed in isolation. They must be seen as a crass extension of the general union bash campaign to a particular section of the trade union movement. But why has the Minister sought to extend the Government's campaign in this way and to do it with such unbridled vigour? In our view it is not simply a matter of him being an enthusiastic supporter of the Government's anti-union campaign. 
There is another factor involved, and that is his own gross failure as a Minister in the eyes of the people he supposedly represents- the rural community. The fact is that the farming community is increasingly impatient with his Government's failure to improve its lot, and well it may be. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has forecast that in 1977-78 real farm income will decline by 14 per cent from its already low level. Whole sections of rural industry are being increasingly vocal in regard to their dissatisfaction with this Government's performance. Just over a week ago at the time the Minister for Primary Industry launched his attack on British migrants  Mr Barry  Cassell, the Federal Director of the National Country Party, announced he was leaving that job to become National Director of the Cattlemen's Union of Australia, an organisation that has been trenchantly critical of the Government. The statements  Mr Cassell  made on leaving the National Country Party showed that he was far from satisfied with its performance in government. An article in the Melbourne  Age of  8 August 1977 stated: 
The retiring Federal director of the National Country Party,  Mr Barry  Cassell, yesterday attacked the party for ' forgetting its basic ideology '. 

 Mr Cassell said the NCP had given too much attention to the mining industry at the expense of beef producers. 'Australia's cattlemen have had a gutful ', he said. 'The party has forgotten its basic ideology and needs to be reminded of the plight of the cattle industry'. 
The fact that the ex-Federal Director of the National Country Party is disenchanted with the Government regarding its rural policy and regards it as being too concerned with the mining industry at the expense of its traditional supporters gives some idea of the extent of dissatisfaction that exists in the rural community with the Government and in particular with the Minister who is responsible for policy in that areathe Minister for Primary Industry, the man who has been so vocal lately. 
It is surely no coincidence that that Minister's sudden insight into the cause of our economic problems and his frenzied attempts to spread the message over the last week or so occurred concurrently with the revelation of major dissatisfaction with his performance within his own Party. Nor did his rantings about the British disease cut any ice with those who understand rural problems and are concerned to see policy initiatives undertaken to solve them. I quote from an article which appeared in the Melbourne Age of 1 5 August. It stated: 
The Federal Government should stop bashing the unions and the British, a leader of the beef industry said yesterday. 
The National director of the Cattlemen's Union,  Mr Barry  Cassell - 
The man who just over a week ago was the Federal Director of the National Country Party- . . . Said the negative approach should be replaced by positive policy initiatives. 

 Mr Cassell resigned as director of the National Party a week ago to take up the cattlemen 's post. 

 His criticism of the Government is a direct reference to the political storm created last week by the National Country Party  Deputy  Leader,  Mr Sinclair. 
So there we have the ex-Federal Director of the National Country Party just over a week ago publicly saying that this campaign of denigration of the trade union movement and the British should stop.  Mr Cassell  's comments demonstrate the patheticness of the Minister's campaign against British migrants.  His  comments were clearly motivated by the desire to be seen to be doing something to help the farmers. But, as  Mr Cassell  said, it is totally negative and totally lacking in positive policy measures to assist the rural industries. 
But it is not just a matter of buck passing and negativism. These comments may well have a decidedly harmful effect on community relations in this country. My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  will elaborate on this point. But I make the point now that we on this side of the House are greatly concerned that for narrow political purposes a Minister is prepared to make comments that promote racism in this country. The cheapest political response to any problem is to blame some section of the community. But when that section is narrowed to a racial group and totally unsubstantiated sweeping allegations are made in regard to them, one is playing with fire, particularly in a multi-racial society such as ours. Such simplistic notions can be attractive to people who are desperate to find solutions to our problems and eager to believe that those problems are all due to some group. If that becomes a widespread belief then the basis for racialism, discrimination and perhaps worse is established. Furthermore, by calling for deportation or discriminatory treatment for British migrants because of their participation in trade union affairs, the Minister not only offends the British born but all the nonBritish migrants who are made to realise that they are still regarded as different from Australian-born citizens by some people in power and therefore liable to be denounced or discriminated against. I remind the House that there are three million migrants in Australia and one million children of migrants. That is a large section of our community. All of them must have been deeply disturbed by the events of last week. For some it would have been an uncomfortable reminder of what unscrupulous politicians in Europe were saying 40 years ago. 
The Minister's statement also demonstrates colossal ignorance of industrial relations. He assumes, as do all his colleagues judging from their public statements, that strikes occur because evil-minded union officials or shop stewards are trying to disrupt industry simply for political purposes. The Minister and his colleagues never stop to think-if they do they never acknowledgethat two sides are involved in industrial relations and that a high level of strikes indicates bad industrial relations but says nothing about the cause. As we have been talking about the British disease, so described by the Minister for Primary Industry, I refer to an article which appeared in a German magazine  Der Spiegel  on 1 August. The article assessed the view of German managers of German companies operating in Britain of the situation in England. It states: 
German managers representing their firms in England have a quite different picture of the 'English Disease'. They put major blame on their English manager colleagues. In the opinion of the German managers, if the English worker is correctly approached he is willing to work. 
I stress those comments. The German managers stressed that in their opinion it is their English manager colleagues who are to blame for the industrial relations problems in that country. The article goes on to make the point that the German manager in Britain sees poor management, inadequate investment and insensitive industrial relations as the cause of the so-called British disease; not the British workers or their unions. So for God's sake let us realise that there are two sides to industrial relations. I think the Government's campaign of denigrating unions because of strikes totally misses the point. Of course, the Government is not interested in discussing the point that there are two sides and that if one simply union bashes this may have extraordinary negative reactions and adverse effects on the community. This point has been picked up by  Rydge's  magazine which recently reported a study of industrial relations in the Pilbara region by a woman who turned out to be the daughterinlaw of the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court. This woman,  Mrs Court,  found that the major reason for bad industrial relations in the Pilbara was not that there were evilminded trade union officials operating there but that management was largely the cause.  Rydge's  magazine went on in that article to state: 
Union bashing may be all very well for election purposes but its real danger is that it thoroughly confuses the reality of industrial relations in this country and contributes to disharmony and lost production. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
What were the average wage rates, on a comparable basis, in Japan, the United States of America, Britain, Germany and Australia in each year since 1 965-66. 
What were the indices of average real wage rates for each of these countries in each year since 1 965-66. 
What are the indices when they are re-calculated in Australian dollar equivalent terms, taking account of exchange rate changes. 
What were the average weekly wage rates in each of these countries, in Australian dollars, at the present rate of exchange in the most recent period for which comparable data is available. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 March1977: 
How many complaints have been considered by (a) the national and (b) each State Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation since 30 September1975. 
-The way this legislation has come before the Parliament is incredible. At 2.45 p.m. today, I received a copy of this Legislation- the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill-with a note which said I was not to show it to anyone until the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  brought the Bill before the 
Parliament. That copy of the legislation arrived only because I sought to see it. When this tremendously important legislation, which could have enormous and immediate ramifications in the industrial relations area, was finally put before the Parliament, it was presented with all the persuasion and eloquence that the Minister could muster for a whole minute. He spoke for one minute, according to the parliamentary clock. The Minister had half an hour to deliver his second reading speech but he spoke for one minute to put forward this incredibly different legislationthis repressive legislation- which will have very widespread effects and could immediately have very devastating effects in relation to one industrial dispute concerning the Post Office. The Parliament received one minute's explanation as to why it should support such legislation. It is an affront to the Parliament and an affront to the people of Australia that the Minister can put forward such legislation with no arguments except virtually preliminary statements. 
This legislation comes before the Parliament presumably because the Government wishes to ave some immediate impact on the postal dispute. Let me give the House some background to that dispute because the Minister has provided honourable members with no information whatever. The fact is, as I understand it, that the postal unions have been in discussions with Australia Post for well over a year. In that time, they have been trying to negotiate an extension of the 36%-hour week to all postal employees. At the moment, a little over half of them work a 36%-hour week. All employees in Telecom Australia work a 36%-hour week. So the fact is that in this postal-Telecom area, the vast majority of employees already work a 36%-hour week. What is at stake here are the terms on which the 36%-hour week will be extended to that minority of employees in this area who do not enjoy it at present. 
It is a fact also that substantial anomalies exist because of the non-application of the 36%-hour week to some employees. For example, this situation can arise in post offices in which perhaps a dozen employees may work. Eleven of them may work for 36%-hours a week but the mail sorter may work a 40-hour week. That is a situation which just cannot be allowed to continue because it clearly promotes industrial trouble. That industrial trouble has finally surfaced because of the impatience of those people who do not have the 36%-hour week. The trouble has finally bubbled to the surface and has resulted in the application of bans in all States in the course of the last week or so. But at this time, when this legislation conies before the House, the fact is that the bans have been removed in all States, I understand, except in New South Wales and South Australia- m Sydney and Adelaide. In all other States the bans have been lifted today. 
The Government has introduced this legislation at a dme when the postal and telecommunications unions have recommended that all bans be lifted. They have been lifted in four of the six States. In South Australia the decision was that they would be lifted if they were lifted at Redfern in Sydney. Of course, Redfern is the trouble spot and has been an industrial relations problem area for some time. I do not have time to go into the reasons for this. But in this case, the special problem at Redfern is that the new rosters put forward by Australia Post for the application of the 36% hour week result in quite a substantial loss of income for the employees working at Redfern. They would lose on average $20 a week. That is much more than employees would lose at any other post office in Australia. That is why there is a special problem at Redfern. That is why presumably today the employees at Redfern rejected the recommendation of Commissioner Sweeney and the recommendation of their unions that they should lift the bans there and that there be negotiations with Australia Post for a week or so to see whether an appropriate form of rosters can be worked out. 
Let me say at this point of time that the Opposition feels it is a pity that the employees at. Redfern did not see fit to accept their union recommendation. The union recommendation seems to have been a very sensible recommendation and I am pleased that in most States it was accepted. But it is a pity that the employees at Redfern have not seen fit to accept it. However, this legislation will not help to settle this situation. This legislation could make the industrial relations scene at Redfern and perhaps elsewhere much worse. I will come to that later. 
What does this Bill do? This Bill covers employment not just in the Post Office. It covers all Commonwealth employment, whether the employees are employed under the Public Service Act, by Government authorities, in the Commonwealth Teaching Service or whatever. All these employees are covered by this legislation. If they undertake industrial action- it does not have to be a strike; it could be a go-slow campaign, any ban or limitation on work or not performing work in the normal way- they can be suspended, stood down or dismissed. This is a quite substantial change because although there are provisions under existing legislation for penalties to apply- stand-downs can be achieved under the present legislation and there is provision under the Post and Telegraph Act for some disciplinary action to be taken against employees- there are certain procedures to be gone through. What this legislation enables is for the employing authority to arbitrarily decide that it will impose this penalty forthwith. The Minister has the power to assume the powers given to the employing authority. So the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  sitting opposite me right now can decide today, if he wants to, or at any time once this legislation is proclaimed that a particular group of employees can be suspended and that other employees can be stood down and perhaps dismissed. That is the power this Minister is acquiring from this legislation. That is a very substantial change from the way in which the procedures currently operate. 
The fact is that if an employer wants to have a stand-down clause imposed under the present legislation, he must go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and persuade it that a stand-down clause should be implemented. The employer has to persuade the Commission of this. It is not something that is easy to do. The employer must put a convincing case to the Commission that the employees should be stood down by the employers. But all that will be sidestepped by this legislation. I would like to quote to the House an extract from the decision of  Mr Justice  Sharp in the distilleries case in 1976 in which he was faced with an argument for the application of a stand-down clause in respect of employees when the employer felt that there was not enough work for the employees because of power stoppages or whatever it was. The Commissioner said: 
This comes to what seems to me to be the essence of the argument, namely, the purpose of a stand-down clause. I do not accept the contention . . . that standing down employees without pay should be an employer's right if that were the most convenient way of avoiding economic loss. The concept that it was managements' prerogative to use labour at will has had no place in western society for many decades. It has been replaced by the concept that the use of the labour of human beings is a privilege accorded to management on defined terms. One of those terms is that reasonable security of earnings be assured to the labourer. This is the purpose of the notice clause in awards and very substantial grounds must exist for this Commission to include any provision which would enable it to be abrogated, even temporarily, by unilateral action. 
What the judge of the Arbitration Commission was saying is that security of employment is basic to the rights of employees and that to abrogate those rights by obtaining stand-down clauses there must be very substantial grounds indeed and the Arbitration Commission must be persuaded by argument that that is the case. What the Government is doing here is saying: 'To hell with all that; we do not want to have that procedure any more. We will just decide of our own volition, regardless of the industrial relations effects that it might have, to suspend employees or to stand down others. For instance, we will not have the expertise of the Arbitration Commissioners to assess the industrial relations implications of what we are doing'. The Government is abrogating the fundamental rights of Commonwealth employees. It cannot expect to introduce legislation like that, which abrogates fundamental rights, without there being a reaction. 
The realities of the situation must be that this will cause enormous dissension amongst Commonwealth employees. Every Commonwealth employee is potentially affected by this legislation. He does not have to be involved in an industrial dispute. If the Minister were to decide that because of an industrial dispute certain employees did not have enough work to do on a particular day, he could stand those employees down, on his own decision. The issue would not have to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the Public Service Arbitrator. The Minister could decide off his own bat. 
Australia Post in the postal dispute to this stage has not seen fit to use any of the existing provisions to suspend or to seek stand down clauses in relation to the industrial action going on its area. Provisions exist for that to be undertaken, but Australia Post, the employing authority in the postal dispute, has taken no such action. But this Government, when most of the bans have been lifted- perhaps with a bit more persuasion we could have the rest lifted in the very near future- has come in with this sledge hammer which ensures that there will be adverse reaction. It is possible that all the bans that have been lifted will be reimposed. I do not know about that; we are not in charge of industrial relations. But the fact is that the Government risks the retaliation of the people involved in that dispute and of others. 
If the Government wants to exacerbate industrial disputation in this country it is going the right way about it. In fact, we on this side of the House think that there is a very good chance that that is precisely what the Government wants to do: It wants to exacerbate industrial relations because it is making such a hell of a mess of the economy that it is trying to provide an alternative focus of attention. This fits very well into the pattern which has been developing over the past few months. 
Without going into the finer detail of this legislation at this stage- we will have a Committee debate on it- the Opposition strongly and strenuously opposes the legislation. It is bad legislation. It abrogates the fundamental rights of Commonwealth employees. It could have very adverse industrial relations effects. The Government should be ashamed to have brought such legislation before the Parliament. 

 -Mr Speaker, two days ago an event of enormous economic and, I suppose, political significance occurred in this country and that was the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, as part of the pattern of wage indexation decisions, to award a 2 per cent increase in the national wage case. The effect of that was not just in the form of the 2 per cent increase but what was said by the Commission in delivering that judgment. In the course of delivering that judgment the Commission not only increased wages by 2 per cent; it found itself in absolute conflict with the economic policies of this Government. This is an event of extraordinary significance because the Commission has never been regarded as the workers' tribunal. It has never been regarded as being pro union, pro worker or pro the Labor Party. It is an impartial tribunal. As one who was associated with it for many years in an advocacy sense and in appearing before it I think I am in a position to say that it certainly is a basically impartial tribunal although I think it perhaps has a tendency to lean, if anything, against the interests of the unions. In this case the Commission tackled the Government's economic policy head on in that it decided that a number of fundamental facts and argument put forward by the Commonwealth Government were wrong and those things are central to the economic policy pursued by this Government. 
I come now to some of these items. The first was that real wages had increased. This is something which the Commonwealth had said in submissions before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It was said also by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his recent Budget Speech. At page 5 of his Budget Speech he said: 
There can be no doubt that, had the wage determination processes permitted real wages to decline in 1976-77, recovery would have been stronger and unemployment less. 
Instead, so far from having declined, as has been repeatedly asserted by our political opponents, real wages were actually higher at June 1 977 than a year earlier. 
That just simply is not true, as the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission pointed out. It referred in its judgment to the fact that there had been a significant reduction in the real level of wages over the course of the last year. It set out the figures on page 9 of its judgment. The Commission said that the increase in the consumer price index in the last 12 months was 13.4 per cent, compared with a 10.8 per cent increase in average weekly earnings, a 10.9 per cent increase in adult male minimum weekly wage rates and an 11.8 per cent increase in-adult female minimum weekly wage rates, hose figures flatly deny what was asserted by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech and also by the Fraser Government in its submissions to the Arbitration Commission in the national wage case. 
Of course, in saying that real wages have increased the Government has looked at other indices. It has used the consumer price index figures minus that part of the CPI which deals with health and medical costs. It has also looked at the implicit deflator for the gross domestic product or parts of the gross domestic product. In the course of the recent national wage case the Commonwealth Government used four or five indices, depending on which one was favourable in respect of the argument that it was putting. But the one which is most appropriate to arbitration decisions is the consumer price index. It is the one which is relevant to the living standards of workers. If one uses that index to see how the prices of the goods and services purchased by wage and salary earners in this country have moved, one finds that there has been in fact a much higher increase in prices than in wages and that real wages have declined. So the arguments used by the Commonwealth before the Commission and in the Budget Speech have been shown to be totally wrong. 
Secondly, we found in this case that the Government was arguing that devaluation had added more to the consumer price index in the June quarter than the 0.4 per cent attributed to it by the Commonwealth Statistician. The Commonwealth Government said that it was 0.7 per cent. We on this side of the House find it extraordinarily interesting that the Government should be trying to convince the Arbitration Commission that the contribution that it has made to inflation through devaluation is rather higher than the Commonwealth Statistician attributed to it. We will be interested to note just how it continues to argue in this regard in the future. The Government has already made the point that in future causes there will be further increases attributable to devaluation. It will be interesting to see how much the Government will accept as being responsible for devaluation in future inflation rates. The fact of the matter is, of course, that the Commission did not accept the 
Commonwealth Government's 0.7 figure. It said that it was much more convinced by the 0.4 figure given by the Commonwealth Statistician, particularly as the 0.7 figure claimed by the Government was based, as the Commission said in its decision, merely on a judgment. It was just a pure judgment. No calculations were put before the Commission. If the Government wants to convince us now that it is in fact adding to inflation by much more than what the Commonwealth Statistician has said we will be interested to listen to its argument. 
A further and very fundamental point which was tackled by the Commission in its decision was that the recovery of the profits share of income to normal levels is basic to economic recovery. That, of course, is a very fundamental argument which is continually put forward by economic spokesmen for the Government. They say that the gross operating surplus of companies as a proportion of the non-farm gross domestic product at factor costs has as its long term average 1 7.5 per cent and they take the 5 years up to, I think, 1972-73 to get that. They say that now that the profit share is well below 17.5 per cent when measured in that way there is therefore a lack of incentive for business to invest and there is therefore a lack of economic recovery, job creation and  so on.  In fact, if one looks at what has happened one will see that there has been a quite substantial recovery in the profit share. From the Budget one can see that, using the same basis of measurement as the Government has used in the past, the profit share in 1976-77 was 14.4 per cent. So it has edged back considerably from the 12 per cent that it reached in 1974. It is much closer to the long term trend. If one looks at what the Commission said in respect of this on page 6 of its judgment when noting that increase in profitability one will see that it said: 
Although profits have not quite returned to 'normal' levels, we are impressed that they have recovered progressively and significantly since the Commission introduced the indexation principles. But the recovery in profits has been accompanied by increasing rather than reduced unemployment and we are unable to conclude that it is lack of  profitablity  which is preventing a recovery from taking place. 
So the Commission is saying there that profitability is up and that unemployment also is up. So it does not seem to fit in with the Commonwealth's analysis. If one goes further than the Commission in fact went one can make the point even more strongly. Profitability is higher than appears on the surface because it is the after tax profitability which is really important to companies. Let us look at the matter in after tax terms. They must be much better off than appears in gross terms because of the investment allowance and the stock valuation adjustment. These very substantial tax benefits which this Government has handed out to companies has meant that in after tax terms their position is much more comfortable than appears when looking at the gross figures. 
There is also in this whole area a fundamental illogicality in the Government's argument because the fact of the matter is that in a recession the profits share always declines. That is because there are certain fixed costs which have to be allocated against production. If there is a smaller output of production the same amount of fixed costs have to be allocated over a smaller production and therefore the unit costs of the output are up. If one looks back at all the trade cycles one will find that it is always the case that the profits share declines in a recession and increases in a boom. The wages share does the reverse. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research showed in its publication  Australian Economic Review  earlier this year that profits now are above their normal level for this stage of the trade cycle. It measured the extent of the trade cycle by looking at such factors as the degree of unemployment, the amount of excess capacity in industry and so on. It is the Institute's judgment, looking at the matter in as analytical a way as possible, that the profits share is above its normal level for this stage in the trading cycle. So in this whole area of profitability the Government's argument has been put into considerable doubt, to put it at its mildest, by the decision of the Commission. Indeed, there are other arguments which can be used to support what has been said by the Commission. 
Another extremely important point, which is tied in with the profits factor, is the reduction in real wages being necessary to promote economic recovery. That is also an extremely basic element of the Government's economic policy. The Commonwealth put forward various arguments in the national wage case to support this argument. It said that real wages were in fact now above the trend rate of growth. It calculated the trend rate from 1961 to 1973 and from 1961 to 1976 and it projected through to 1977 to see what the trend rate should be and said that the actual rate of wages was above their trend level. That was true only in respect of award rates. Let us look at the earnings. They are the really important factor. They are what the employers have to pay- not just the award rates. According to the figures for the latest quarter available they were in fact below the trend rate. So the Government's figures have confounded its argument in that respect. 
The Government also produced evidence in regard to what it delightfully described as the real wage overhang. It purported to show that real wages had increased faster than productivity; so there was an overhang which would have to be eradicated before economic recovery could proceed. But the evidence went only to 1 975-76, not to any period past the middle of last year. The Australian Council of Trade Unions updated that material to 1976-77 and showed that the gap would disappear in 1977-78 even with full wage indexation being applied. I was about to say even with full wage indexation continuing to apply but it has not been applied in five out of the last six cases. But if it were applied as from now this so-called real wage overhang, as measured by the Commonwealth Government, would disappear in 1977-78. The ACTU put forward a table to demonstrate that. I do not have time to refer to the figures, but let me say briefly that the Commonwealth had a chance to refute those figures if it so wished but it did not refute them. It said nothing about them. Therefore one can only assume that the Government felt that it had lost that argument- at least in respect of the figures. 
We have also noted that the real wage overhang is the reverse of the profits share drop in a recession. The wages share goes up, the profits share comes down and the productivity growth declines; so there is a real wage overhang. The eradication of the real wage overhang would occur with economic recovery. Once one has economic recovery- one has an economic boom- and is going back towards full employment, the profits share goes up and the wages share comes down. Wages increase at a slower rate than productivity. This so-called real wage overhang disappears. The Government wants that to happen right now in the middle of a recession, not by generating economic recovery but by cutting the living standards of wage and salary earners in this country. That is an argument which again has been substantially rejected by the Arbitration Commission. 
There are other reasons to support the view adopted by the Commission in rejecting the basic argument of the Commonwealth Government. The 1976 Budget expectation for wages and prices was, in fact, better than expected. Last year's Budget Papers anticipated that prices would rise by 12 per cent and that average weekly earnings would also rise by 12 per cent so that there would be no reduction in real wage levels but unemployment would fall. In fact, there was a fall in real wages but unemployment went up by sixty thousand or more. Another one per cent of the work force became unemployed despite the fact that real wages fell. The Government, in its Budget Papers, did not anticipate that happening. It is no wonder that the Commission expressed in its judgment its scepticism as to whether smaller wage increases would have led to reduced unemployment. 
If increased wages are the cause of unemployment why has female employment increased whilst male employment has decreased? In the last year or so there has been practically no increase in employment levels. What increases there have been have occurred in the female area, not the male area. Yet female wages have increased much more than male wages. Another exhibit in the case put by the Australian Council of Trade Unions showed that the ratio of female earnings to male earnings had moved from 58 per cent in September 1973 to 66 per cent in June 1977. At the same time the female unemployment rate had declined from 1.9 times the male rate to 1.5 times the male rate. That totally refutes the argument put forward by the Fraser Government in this chamber time after time and in the Arbitration Commission. 
If the Fraser Government really believes its argument about the real wage overhang why does it persist with the investment allowance? It is totally contradictory. The investment allowance subsidises capital. If the Government thinks that wage costs are causing the replacement of labour by capital, why is it subsidising capital, making it cheaper compared to labour and so creating more unemployment? It seems that the Government wants to create more unemployment by continuing a subsidy which reduces the price of capital compared to labour. It is no wonder that the Commission rejected the Commonwealth's submissions on this basic issue of real wage levels and the profit share. 
Is the Treasurer aware that in reaching its decisions the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is bound under section 39 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to have regard to the economic effects of its decisions, especially on the level of employment and inflation? Is he also aware that in its published reasons for decision in the recent national wage case the Commission specifically stated that it had acted with considered judgment in discharging its obligations under the Act? If so, I ask the Treasurer whether he will tell the House what he meant by his statement following the recent national wage decision in which he said: 
The Government would be looking to the Commission in the future to pay greater regard to the economic consequences of its decisions, especially as they affect inflation and unemployment. 
Was the Treasurer, as appears to be the case, accusing the Commission of not abiding by its statutory obligations and falsely asserting in its judgment that it had done so? 
-The matter now before the House is the Government's decision to give the go-ahead to uranium mining and development in Australia, as outlined to the nation in five ministerial statements in this House on 25 August. In resuming the debate, I remind the House that the Opposition strongly opposes this decision on the ground that it is utterly inappropriate at this time for Australia to commit itself one way or the other. Nothing that Government speakers have added in this debate in any way alters our opinion in that regard. Indeed, events since the Government's announcements serve only to strengthen and to endorse our attitude on this issue. Since this House last met and debated this issue, one of the principal props for the Government's decision has been removed. The Government made great play of the alleged fact that it based its decision on the Fox reports and that, where it diverged from them, it at least conformed to the spirit of the reports. However, that has now been shown not to be the case. 
I refer to a report in the  Canberra Times  of 3 1 August. Despite the doubts expressed by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  about that newspaper, it gives an accurate report of the views of the person to whom I now refer. I am referring to one of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry commissioners, Professor Kerr. The article reads: 
The case for delaying any decision on uranium mining and export was at least as strong as the Government's case for making a decision now, one of the three Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry commissioners, Professor Charles Kerr said yesterday. 
Professor Kerr said that the Government had used arguments for its decision that the inquiry had rejected. 
It had, for instance, said that there was a great need for uranium-' but we didn't say that at all '. 
He described the international safeguards the Government used as the basis for its decisions as 'virtually useless', and endorsed the statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Uren,  on Monday that the Government's claim for safe disposal of waste was false. 
I remind the House that I am referring here to a man who was one of the three commissioners involved in the Fox reports on which the Government said that it based its decision. The article goes on to say: ' We talked to the people and no one is isolating the waste, ' Professor Kerr said. 'It s merely being managed. The, whole thing is not settled yet. ' 
He listed the changes the Government had made to commission 's recommendations as: 
The land-use program, possibly jeopardising the commission 's strategy for protecting the Alligator Rivers region; 
Declaring the national park in parts instead of at one time; 
Not adopting a sequential development program for mining; 
Placing greater faith than the commission in safeguards; 
Predicting a greater need than the commission saw for uranium- 'in spite of the weight of evidence that estimates of need have been downgraded since our first report'; 
Reserving their decision on whether a marketing authority should be established. 
There is a long list of decisions which the Government has made that have not been in accord with the recommendations of the inquiry. Professor Kerr could have added another one which relates to the use of the Atomic Energy Act, to which I will refer later. The article continues: 
Professor Kerr said that he was not querying the Government's right to make the decisions. ' But they ha ve made quite radical changes ', he said. 
So much for the Government's allegation that it based its decision on the Fox reports and, if not on the actual recommendations of the Fox reports, at least on the spirit of the reports. It did no such thing, as Professor Kerr has shown there thoroughly. 
The first Fox report made it absolutely clear that the key basis of concern that it had about uranium mining and export was the problem of nuclear proliferation. The Government says that it will overcome this problem in respect of Australian uranium by a safeguards policy. Much has been made of that safeguards policy. The details of it were outlined by the then Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  The policy contained four so-called safeguards- firstly, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons; secondly, the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards; thirdly, bilateral agreements; and, fourthly, participation in multilateral efforts to strengthen safeguards. The IAEA is central to this safeguards policy because of its inspection role. Without inspection there can be no monitoring of any diversion of plutonium for nuclear weapons manufacture. The Government makes it all sound very efficient and reliable but in fact it is no such thing. The Fox report expressed grave doubts about that matter but the Minister had this to say on the issue: 
In short, 1 the safeguards administered by the IAEA are a thorough, technically sophisticated, impartial and international means of verifying that nuclear material in a country's peaceful nuclear industry is not diverted to nuclear weapons. 
In fact, it is not such an easy system at all. I refer the House to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  in April of this year headed 'The Case of the Missing Uranium Fuel Rods'. It was one of a very good series of articles entitled: 'The Nuclear Nightmare'. There were five articles in the series. This particular article referred in detail to the problems of the IAEA and it said: 
Theoretically, an IAEA inspector would notice that weapons-grade material is missing from a nation's nuclear energy stocks. If there is no other explanation for this disappearance, Eklund is to report it to the UN Security Council. 
The process must work quickly and efficiently, if it is to work at all, because skilled technicians need only a few days or weeks at the most to turn some nuclear materials into a bomb. The force of adverse world opinion and pressure from powerful nations must be quickly focussed on Nation X. 
That at least, is the theory. Whether it could ever be put into practice is a matter of growing controversy that centres around the inadequacies and the secretive nature of the IAEA . . . 
The essence of IAEA's operation is bookkeeping. The material that is known to be in a nation's possession must be accounted for. Agency inspectors do not scrutinise the physical protection of materials- that is left up to individual nations. 
To make their work easier, agency inspectors sometimes fasten special seals on fuel containers. They install specially designed robot cameras that periodically take pictures of a nation's nuclear fuel storage areas, pictures that might reveal a diversion attempt. 
Exactly how the IAEA inspectors go about their job when they arrive, however, is a matter of secret negotiations with each country. Some countries make themselves quite open to IAEA inspectors, while others prefer to do their own reporting on themselves. 
I ask the House to take note that some countries do the reporting on themselves rather than allow the inspectors to do it for them. The article goes on to say: 
Sometimes these reports are filed late. Sometimes they are not filed at all. And some countries assert the right to reject a particular inspector until the IAEA sends one more to their liking. 
Then there is the question whether IAEA inspectors perform adequately once they are given access. 
It goes on to refer to examples where they have made various mistakes, and it continues: 
In recent months several US agencies have begun to worry about the secrecy surrounding IAEA safeguards. After considerable study and first hand observations of IAEA inspectors the Government Accounting Office investigators concluded, 'We believe that the United States does not have adequate assurances that international safeguards inspections are being adequately carried out'. 
This article continues in depth to question the effectiveness of the IAEA inspections. It refers to the fact that in some countries, for instance Russia, inspectors are not even allowed in. Basically it points out that inspection facilities are far from technical, efficient and thorough as the Government would have us believe. It is interesting to note that only a few months ago Tony Grey the head of Pancontinental Mining Limited, one of the companies very much involved in uranium mining, drew attention to similar shortcomings in the international safeguards through the ineffectiveness of the IAEA inspection. 
The research officer for the Fox inquiry has also expressed grave reservations about nuclear weapons proliferation since the Government has made its decision about this matter. In a statement issued on 29 August he said: 
Turning first to the international aspects and the questions of controlling nuclear weapons proliferation, the Government's argument that this objective would be furthered by the export of Australian uranium seems to depend chiefly on the fact that this is in accord with the policy announced by  President  Carter on 7 April last. The aim of this policy is to discourage countries from turning to reprocessing of spent fuel and the fast breeder reactor, that is to the plutonium economy, by providing adequate and timely supplies of uranium. So far this policy has been notably unsuccessful. None of the countries with a commitment to achieving reprocessing and fast breeder technology have said they would consider renouncing it; most have said quite plainly that they will press ahead regardless. In any case, the policy is seriously flawed in that once a country has obtained spent reactor fuel, containing plutonium, it does not need a commercial reprocessing plant, costing hundreds of millions of dollars to extract the plutonium to make bombs, but can do it with a laboratory scale plant costing a few tens of millions of dollars. 
That was the statement by the research officer for the Fox Commission. Quite clearly he thinks that the Government's decision is totally wrong. The question of waste also is a matter of grave concern but the Government seems to think there is no problem. In the various statements made the Prime Minister in particular has gone out of his way to say that the problem has been solved. In fact this is far from true. Both the Fox report in this country and the Flower report in Britain said that the problem has not been solved. Indeed, there is a grave problem in existence as to how the world is going to cope with the issue of nuclear waste. Vitrification of the waste has been proposed as a means on disposal and this apparently is what the Prime Minister has in mind when he says that the problem has been met. In fact there is no country which is yet able to vitrify the waste in a way which is satisfactory. It is tremendously important to note also that vitrification needs, firstly, reprocessing to take place. This is exactly what  President  Carter said he was trying to avoid. He has asked that we not get into the stage of reprocessing, yet the one possible means by which we might dispose of the waste in a permanent way, and that is by no means certain, involves going into the reprocessing business. 
The economic aspects of uranium production in this country have been vastly overstated. It is no panacea for our economic ills. The fact is that the employment effect would be absolutely minimal despite the absurd claim by the  Australian,  the day after the Government's announcement, that there would be 500,000 jobs created by the milling of uranium. That was a totally absurd statement. The facts are these: The Ranger operation would employ about 600 people during the construction period of two years if the initial production rate were 300 tonnes a year and 1,000 people if the rate were 6,000 tonnes a year. Thereafter the operation would employ almost 250 and 400 people respectively. In other words we are talking about 1,000 to 1,500 people being involved in the construction and production stages. Once we got into the production stages a few hundred people would be involved. Of course honourable members can say that there would be other mines. If there is not sequential development all mines might be operating at once. But at most we are still talking about a relatively small number of people. The mining of uranium is no solution for the nation's unemployment problem, nor will there be any dramatic change in our economic status. 
The increase in national income will be at best 0.53 per cent according to the Fox report and the effect on exports would be at most an additional 5 per cent. Certainly these things are not to be sneered at. They are worthwhile additions but they are not dramatic changes. Uranium is not going to revolutionise this country and make us the Arabs of the southern hemisphere. It would do nothing like that despite the mad claims that have been made by the Government and its supporters in respect of this matter, particularly by the Minister for Primary Industry. There is nothing to support that claim. 
-He said it during the last sitting week. I want to refer finally and quickly to the fact that the Government also committed a major breach of the Fox Commission recommendations when it decided to base uranium mining on the Atomic Energy Act. This has very grave implications for industrial relations in this country. It is difficult to believe other than that the Government decided to base uranium mining on the Atomic Energy Act because of the measures that this would give to it to enable it to take action against unions and people who might be trying to obstruct uranium mining. One of the many repressive aspects of the Atomic Energy Act is that all works carried out by or on behalf of the Atomic Energy Commission are as if those works were approved defence projects within the meaning of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act. Under that Act, and therefore in relation to uranium mining at Ranger, a person can be fined $1,000 to $10,000 or gaoled for from six months to 12 months for doing anything that hinders or obstructs the uranium mining project if that mining is deemed to be under the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act. Also, in terms of the Atomic Energy Act itself, there are many penalties provided against workers involved in uranium mining if they take any action such as a strike. In addition there is the distinct possibility that the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act, the legislation which was rammed through this House in the last sitting week, would apply also, particularly to the Ranger mine because that mine is 72% per cent owned by the Commonwealth Government. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerns the matter of seasonally adjusted unemployment figures which the Minister ceased to publish a year ago. I ask: Is the Minister aware that Table 1 of Statement No. 2 in the Budget papers contains figures derived from a seasonally adjusted series relating to persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as unemployed. Does this not mean that seasonally adjusted figures for the number of registered unemployed are available from the Commonwealth Statistician and are being used by the Department of the Treasury? If so, why does the Minister continue to suppress the publication of these figures? 
-Recent reports tabled in this House have shown conclusively that this Government's policy of continually reducing staff ceilings is doing enormous damage to government administration in this country. These reports have confirmed the many previous indications of growing inefficiency in the provision of public services because of these arbitrary reductions in the number of government employees. As a result of this stupid policy vast amounts of government moneys are being squandered. There are increasing, and in some cases enormous, delays in the supply of services. There is growing stress, tension and industrial disputation in the Public Service as a result of increased work loads, loss of certain employment rights and staff imbalances, and there is a reduction in the quality of services provided. 
How did all this come about? The original rationalisation for staff ceilings was in our opinion largely ideological. The Government came into office committed to reducing the size of the public sector and to building up the whole myth about the public sector, both in terms of the moneys expended on it and the efforts of those who worked within it. The Government tried to promote to the Australian people an image of a Public Service which was lazy and fat and in which there was plenty of room for wielding the knife. So when it took office it commenced in fact to wield the knife and to start to reduce the number of public servants. While doing this the Government said to the people of Australia: You see, there is no reduction in services'. In fact, of course, as we will see later, there was a very substantial reduction in both the level and quality of services provided because of the very severe reductions introduced by this Government. 
To be fair about the history of staff ceilings, however, I should not try to leave the impression that they were originated by the Fraser Government. In fact, they were first introduced by the Menzies Government in 1951 in quite a severe form. But they were then let lapse and were not revived again until the Gorton Government restored them in 1970. They were continued under the McMahon Government and also by the Whitlam Government. But except for the Menzies staff ceilings in 1951 all of these staff ceilings allowed for growth in the Public Service and the remainder of government employment. The Whitlam Government gradually reduced the allowable growth but it still allowed for some growth. Even in 1975 when it had reduced the level of staff ceilings it allowed for a growth of 1.5 per cent in 1975-76. However, the Whitlam Government did not see 1975-76 out. 
When the Fraser Government came in, within 10 days of being elected the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that the Public Service numbers were to be frozen at the level they were at the end of November. Then on 9 February 1976 it set a limit for the Public Service of 155,000 or just under to be reached by 30 June 1976. This was later varied up to 159,000 to allow for increased Public Service Act coverage. But still the pressure was there for reductions. The result was that on 30 June 1976 the number of full time employees covered by the Public Service Act, after allowing for variations in coverage by the Act during the year, was decreased by 4.2 per cent or a little over 6,000. The Government boasted that all this was being achieved without reduction in services or their quality. But this was either self delusion or deliberate deception of the public. 
On 14 June 1976 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced a further lowering of staff ceilings by 1.6 per cent for the year 1976-77. That clearly was a matter of concern to the Public Service Board. In its 1975-76 annual report the Board stated: 
There is, however, a point beyond which restraints may impede efficient administration and lead to a decline in the quality of services provided by the Government. 
So there was the Public Service Board in its report for 1975-76 saying in mid 1976 that staff ceilings, if taken too far, would impede government administration and lead to a reduction in the quality of services provided. Despite this the Government continued with its further reductions in staff ceilings. It also ignored the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. This report became available in August 1976. I shall briefly quote from the section of the report dealing with staff ceilings. At page 242 the report states: 
Considerable criticism has been directed at staff ceilings as a control device. The Commission initiated a research project on the use of staff ceilings and the results of this work are published with our Report. Much of the criticism is endorsed by the consultant's report which urges that more effective staff reductions can be achieved by longer term planning and that such planning is compatible with targets for reductions at least on established working units. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House condemns the Budget because it will: 
a) intensify and prolong the recession, 
increase unemployment, 
have little impact on inflation, 
d) make regressive changes in the tax system, and 
e) reduce living standards '. 
In speaking to the motion and the amendment, I wish firstly to go back to a consideration of what life was like two years ago. Two years ago in this Parliament the Opposition was preparing to reject the Budget of the Whitlam Labor Government because of the alleged failure of that Government to control the economy. It went ahead with its delaying tactics. It told the people of Australia that it would bring about a fundamental change in the economic situation of this country and that it would turn on the lights. What has it done in the interim? If we compare the state of the economy now with the state of the economy two years ago, when the Opposition was preparing to reject the Budget, we can see that it has failed absolutely to revive the economy and that things are far worse than they were two years ago. 
Let us look at unemployment, which is a very important economic indicator. The Commonwealth Employment Service figures show that registered unemployed at August 1975 numbered 248,000 and in August 1977, 334,000-an increase of 86,000 or 35 per cent. Alternatively, if we look at the figures for unemployment produced by the Bureau of Statistics, in August 1975 243,800 people were unemployed; in August 1977 the figure was 317,600, anincrease of 73,800. If we look at employment figures rather than unemployment figures, we find that the total number of civilian employees in July 1975 was 4,743,400. In July this year the figure was 4,717,900, a decrease of 25,400. In other words, over the past two years- the period in which we should have expected the number of civilian employees to increase by about 200,000-there has been a decrease of 25,500. If we look at the number of employees in private enterprise we find that in July 1975 there were 3,309,700 employees and in July 1977 3,25 1,100 employees, a decrease of 58,600. So much for the turning on of the lights in respect of employment. Quite clearly the Government has failed disastrously in this area. 
With regard to inflation, there has been some reduction m the consumer price index, although there has been nowhere near the reduction which the Government tries to claim. In the 12 months to June 1975 the consumer price index rose by 16.9 per cent in line with the very high world inflation rate at that time. In the 12 months to June 1977 it rose by 13.4 per cent, which represented a reduction of 3 per cent. In the meantime, of course, other countries have managed a much more drastic reduction of their inflation rate than we have. Efforts by the Government to use indices other than the consumer price index do not really convince the Australian people. What is relevant to people in considering inflation is the consumer price indexthe index of prices paid by Australian consumers for goods and services- not some implicit price index which is related to the price of capital goods which are largely imported. That is what inflation means to them. Therefore, one must use the consumer price index. If we do so we see that there has been a minimal decline in inflation. 
If we look at production statistics for the 12 months to June 1975 we find that the gross national product in real terms grew by 3.5 per cent. But in the 12 months to June 1977 the gross national product in real terms grew by only 1.4 per cent. What a miserable rate of growth we nave had in the past 1 2 months- a little over onethird of the rate of growth for the year ended in June 1975! The number of building approvals was 19 per cent lower in June 1977 than in June 1976. In July 1975 there were 12,478 approvals and in July 1977 only 10,700 approvals, a fall of 1,778. For the 12 months ended in July 1975 motor car registrations totalled 60,500 and to July 1977, 50,500-a fall of over 10,000. So with all these indicators we can see that the economy is going downhill at a rapid rate. If we compare the situation now with what it was two years ago we see that the situation now is much worse than it was then. 
International reserves have declined somewhat in that two year period. Of course, in the past few months they have been racing downwards. The value of the currency compared with the trade weighted average of international currencies is now 13 per cent less than it was when Labor was in office two years ago. If we look at living standards- a fundamental indicator of the welfare of people in this country- we see that in the 12 months to June 1975 real household disposable income, that is the real income which people had in their hands to spend, went up by 5.1 per cent. In the 12 months to June 1977 that figure declined by 2.4 per cent. In the past 12 months the people of Australia have become poorer by 2.5 per cent in terms of real income that they have in their hands after tax. This is a drastic change from the figures for the 12 months to June 1975 when the then Opposition said that the situation was disgraceful and that the Government of the day had to be thrown out. Quite clearly the situation is much worse now. 
If we look at the total living standards of people we have to take into account the very diminished level of government services available because of the drastic cuts in government expenditure, living standards being comprised not only of the real income which people have in their hands after tax but also the level of government services provided. Those services are being cut back at a frightening rate. So clearly living standards have been drastically reduced by the Fraser Government. 
It is not just a matter of comparing the situation now with what it was two years ago. It is interesting also to see what is happening right now. In the past few months the situation has become worse. The rate of acceleration of deterioration has increased. The figures produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that in the past three months, in seasonally adjusted figures, there has been a rise of 20,000 in unemployment. We cannot do the same analysis for the CES figures because this Government has decided not to publish the seasonally adjusted figures any more. It has done that because those figures are embarrassing. Although they are available and are used by the Treasury in the preparation of the Budget Papers, this Government tries to hide the extent of unemployment by refusing to publish the seasonally adjusted figures produced by the Commonwealth Employment Service. This is a disgraceful action. There is now a rumour that the Government might also refuse to publish the original figures. That would not surprise me. Clearly the Government is greatly embarrassed by its total failure to get on top of the employment situation. 
The ANZ Employment Advertisement Series, which looks at the number of advertisements for jobs appearing in newspapers in the capital cities of Australia, shows that the number of these advertisements fell every month this year. Month after month it has shown a seasonally adjusted decline, showing that fewer and fewer job vacancies have been available for people to fill. Retail sales in the past four months have fallen in real terms by 0.6 per cent, and so on. The economic situation which this Government has created is little short of disastrous. 
Why are things so bad? The Government blames everyone but itself. It blames the unions first and foremost. The unions have become the Government's No. 1 scapegoat. Minister after Minister spends his time outside this House raving about the antics of the unions and their supposed destruction of the country. In fact, if we look at the figures we see that there has been a drastic decline in industrial disputation. In the past five months there has been a remarkable reduction in the level of industrial disputation in this country. The level also fell heavily in 1976 and, indeed, in 1975. Indeed, there has been a continual reduction in the level of industrial disputation in the past two or three years. 
Even though the average level now is well below that for any year up to 1968, the Government keeps ranting about unions being the cause of this country's economic problems. Quite clearly the Government is just scapegoating- using the unions as a basis for trying to avoid responsibility for the economic mess it has created. The Government's attack is levelled not only against the unions, although they are the Government's principal target; it has placed a fair bit of the responsibility for the mess with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in particular has done so. In one of the most disgraceful statements made by any Treasurer in this country, he said the day after making his Budget Speech: 
The major disappointment of last year was, of course, failure to bring about any improvement in the level of unemployment. Let there be no doubt that the responsibility for this outcome rests principally on the shoulders of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which has consistently refused to face up to the employment consequences of its decisions. 
What a disgraceful comment! It displayed a total avoidance of any responsibility whatsoever for the failure of the Government to reduce unemployment and put the whole burden onto the 
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. As I said, at other times the Treasurer has placed a substantial amount of responsibility with the unions, but this time it was with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Yesterday we heard the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  talk in similar terms about the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, but I shall come back to that later. 
The Government has also used the Industries Assistance Commission as a scapegoat. Even though it is only an advisory body, it is said to be destroying confidence and inhibiting investment in this country, thereby stopping economic recovery. Clearly, this Government is seeking any means it can to find an excuse for the economic mess it has created. What has been its role in creating this economic mess? The mess stems firstly from the ideological basis of the Government's economic decision making. When the Government came to office it wanted to transfer resources from the public sector to the private sector, to cut government expenditure, and to give private companies massive tax concessions. It went ahead and did so. It did that not because it was clear that it would be the best thing for the country but because it had an ideological commitment so to do. It had told the people of Australia for so long and so often that government expenditure was evil and that public sector spending had to be reduced in the interests of the people that, when it came into office- even though it was by no means clear that it would be good for the country; in fact, I assert strongly that it was very bad for the country- the Government went ahead with that kind of program for ideological reasons. 
The same is true of the Government's transfer of real income from wage earners to profits. It asserted that that was necessary to restore the level of profitability so that companies would be encouraged to invest and so that we could get economic recovery going again. But, if a government at the same time reduces the capacity of people to spend, clearly that inhibits economic recovery. It was again an ideological commitment which spurred the Government on to the path which it is still pursuing. 
A similar situation applies in regard to the need to slash the deficit. The deficit had been made an amazing political issue. An increasing deficit was seen as the height of economic irresponsibility. So the Government had to slash the deficit. In slashing the deficit it also has had to take actions which have aggravated the economic mess into which the country is sinking. What have been the effects of this policy? Firstly, the slashing of the deficit and government expenditure led to big reductions in demand. The public sector is an important sector of total demand. If it is cut, then demand is reduced. Therefore, the prospects of economic recovery being generated are reduced. 
Government expenditure was cut in early 1976. It was cut by 4 per cent in real terms in last year's Budget. It has been cut again in this year's Budget. So, there has been a substantial reduction in demand from the government sector, and that has flow-on effects into the private sector because a lot of government expenditure relates to the private sector. Capital expenditure and so on uses up a lot of building materials and equipment which are supplied by the private sector. If that kind of government expenditure is cut, demand for goods and services provided by the private sector will be reduced. That has downward multiplier effects, and creates more and more unemployment. That is what this policy has done. 
The situation in relation to real wages is similar. They have been cut by between 2.5 per cent and 3 per cent. The reduction would have been to much more if the Government had had its way. The effect has been to reduce consumer spending. That cut in real wages has not been offset by tax cuts, despite what the Government says about cutting taxes and thereby boosting the after-tax income of people. It is true that tax indexation has been introduced, but tax indexation is not a tax cut. Tax indexation simply prevents the tax burden from becoming heavier. The Government increased child endowment; that is true. However, it also abolished tax deductions for children. So, that total effect was that the increase in the child endowment was almost completely offset. 
The Government introduced the Medibank levy, which is nothing more than an increase in tax. It takes money away from people so that they cannot spend it on other things. Tax deductions for mortgage interest payments were abolished. So, despite all the propaganda about tax cuts, there has been an increase in the tax burden, That, together with the cuts in real wages, means that families in Australia are worse off in real terms, as I mentioned before. Real household disposable income is now less, seaonally adjusted, than it was in September 1974- almost three years ago. So, clearly the Government's policies in cutting government expenditure and cutting wages have ensured a reduction in these crucial areas of demand- consumer expenditure and government expenditure. Without some increases m one of those two areas there cannot be economic recovery. Indeed, the Government recognised that in its own Budget Papers which were presented last year. It said in Statement No. 2 at page 22 of the Budget Papers: 
If consumption fails to grow, there can be no recovery, simply because consumption is such a large part of total demand. 
That was very true; and it is still true. It therefore means that the Government's policy of reducing the real income of consumers must inhibit and prevent economic recovery. 
Let us look at the effects of the Budget which was presented in the last month. It continues on the disastrous path along which the economic policies of the Government have already led this country. Government expenditure is cut by about 2 per cent in real terms; real wages  will  fall, if the Budget is successful, by a further 1.5 per cent. Indeed, if the Government's wages policy is successful the fall will be more than that. However, the Government hopes for at least 1.5 per cent. So again it has provided for further cuts in government expenditure, further cuts in real wages, and therefore further cuts in demand. Therefore, we will have more unemployment. On the face of the Budget Papers it is clear that there will be more unemployment. The Government says that employment may grow by perhaps 2 per cent. Everyone knows that the work force normally increases by at least something of the order of 2 per cent or more. But, if employment increases by only 2 per cent, then clearly there can be no reduction in the level of unemployment. That 2 per cent estimate in relation to employment is clearly an optimistic one. If the Government's forecast is in any way out and the increase is less than 2 per cent, which I suggest it certainly will be, then there will be much more unemployment. 
Indeed, we have already seen the unemployment figures increase month by month, as I have already mentioned. There is absolutely no reason to think that they will not continue to increase because of these incredibly stupid economic policies, which are not offset in any way by job creation programs. It is a disgrace that this country has no job creation programs as such, despite the fact that we are in the worst recession since the 1930s. The Government has no job creation programs, except for the Special Youth Employment Training Program which now has almost 10,000 young people employed under it. But the moneys made available in the Budget for that program are not enough to keep any more than a little over half of those young people going for the rest of the financial year. Perhaps the 
Government intends to make more moneys available. It will have to make substantially more funds available if it wants to keep in employment the current numbers on the Special Youth Employment Training Program. Furthermore, it is not by any means clear that that program is creating more jobs. It is putting more young people in jobs, but it is not clear that it is creating more jobs in total. 
Inflation is estimated to remain at 12 per cent. The Budget Papers indicate that that will be the case. So, clearly there will be no reduction in inflation either in this financial year. So, in respect of these crucial factors- unemployment, inflation and economic growth- there is little to look forward to in 1977-78. The Government's Budget is a disgrace. It commits this country to follow further along the path of recession and of inflation. We therefore condemn the Budget in the terms which I have outlined in the amendment. For the reasons I have mentioned in the amendment, we strongly oppose the Appropriation Bills. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
My question to the Prime Minister refers to the Prime Minister's continual assertions that a proven technology exists to safely dispose of nuclear waste. Is he aware that the solidification and vitrification process in which he has such faith requires first that the reactor waste be reprocessed? Is he also aware that it is by reprocessing that plutonium is separated from other wastes and that it is for this reason that President Carter opposes such reprocessing? In view of the Prime Minister's expressed support for President Carter's policy, how can he claim that the vitrification process solves the waste disposal problem when its use requires the undertaking of reprocessing which is so strongly opposed by President Carter? Will it not be the case that if President Carter's policy is implemented the United States and any other country which it can influence to its point of view will not be able to use the vitrification process to dispose of its nuclear waste? 
-The Opposition raises this matter because it is acutely concerned at the effect on this country of continued and increasing unemployment and the apparent disinterest of the Government in taking any effective action to reverse this disastrous situation. The result of this appalling governmental indifference to lengthening dole queues is that this nation is experiencing rapidly escalating social problems born of the despair and alienation of the unemployed, and severe economic loss through the enforced idleness of hundreds of thousands of people. These social and economic consequences need to be recognised by this Parliament because they expose the sheer inhumanity, shortsightedness and wastefulness of Government policies which are irrefutably based on the continuance and even the extension of unemployment. 
Despite the Government's token attempts to appear concerned about unemployment the reality is that it is only toying with the issue. It has done far less than most other comparable countries have done in this regard. For such inaction and indifference this Government stands condemned. The social and economic consequences of such policies are so massive and so appalling that it cannot be allowed to continue the destructive course it has charted for the last 134 years. I remind the House of what has happened over the last 1% years. Unemployment has increased substantially. At the moment there are 334,000 registered unemployed. That is 86,000 more than in August 1975, two years ago when the then Opposition was suggesting that the then Government could not run the country and should be forced out of office. The Bureau of Statistics figures for unemployment show that there are 318,000 unemployed now which is 74,000 more than in August 1975. 
At the end of July 1977 the total number of wage and salary earners employed in Australiathese are the latest figures-was 26,500 less than in July 1975, two years previously. This is in a situation where the normal increase in the work force is approximately 2 per cent, about 120,000 persons per year. Despite that, over the two-year period there has been a reduction in the number of employed persons by 26,500. Private industry was going to nave the lights turned on. All sorts of beaut things were going to happen. The fact is that there are 58,600 fewer wage and salary earners in private industry than there were two years ago. Youth unemployment rates today are appallingly high. Two years ago the unemployment rate for teenagers was 12.0 per cent. For boys it was 10.6 per cent and for girls it was 12.0 per cent. Today, two years later, the teenage unemployment rate is 16.7 per cent. For boys it is 14.6 per cent and for girls it is 19.1 per cent. In other words, virtually one in five of every teenage girl who has left school and is looking for a job cannot get one. Aboriginal unemployment is 36 per cent according to a leaked Cabinet document published recently. 
The unemployment situation is appalling and much worse than it was two years ago when the Labor Government was still in office. The future trends are that the situation will get much worse. There is no possibility of any reduction in unemployment in 1977-78, the current financial year, without a drastic change in government policy. This is shown firstly by the Budget which anticipates no reduction. Statement  2  of the Budget says that the likelihood is for little or no change between June 1977 and June 1978. Frankly, I think that is a highly optimistic forecast. So too does the Reserve Bank, which said in a leaked document published recently showing forecasts of economic prospects for the current financial year, that estimates for unemployment would rise from 5.3 per cent at the end of the last financial year to 6.1 per cent at the end of this calendar year and 6.0 per cent by mid 1978. In other words, the Reserve Bank says that unemployment will be much higher in 1977-78 than it was in 1976-77. 
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations also is highly pessimistic about any improvement. In the recently published document 'Employment Prospects by Industry and Occupation', dated July 1977 the Department said that, while it can be expected that the economy will improve during 1978, any corresponding upturn in labour demand by employers is likely to be slower to eventuate. So, we have all these Government sources saying that there will be no reduction in unemployment; that in fact there will be a substantial increase in unemployment on top of what we have had already in the last year and three-quarters under the Fraser Government. 
This has enormous economic and social consequences. The economic consequences stem from the massive loss of production plus the need to divert vast resources to the relief of the unemployed. Let us look at the production loss. The average number of unemployed in 1976-77, according to the Commonwealth Employment Service figure, was 302,000 people. Assuming 225 working days- that is, 52 weeks less seven weeks; four of them for annual leave, one for sick leave and two for public holidays- a total of 68 million working days was lost through unemp- ployment in 1976-77. The total amount of wages &gt;st because of unemployment in 1976-77, using the same wages figure as is used to calculate wages lost by industrial disputes in 1976-77, was a massive $2, 157m. Similar figures, although they are slightly less, come from using the figures from the Bureau of Statistics. 
These are fantastic losses. The wage loss of $2, 157m represents 2.6 per cent of gross domestic product in 1976-77. In fact, the loss would be even greater than those figures show because if these people were working instead of being unemployed the amount of production we would get would be more than just the amount of wages paid. There would be additional value added. So, there is a very much more substantial loss than appears on the surface. The House also should note that these losses dwarf the losses incurred by society through industrial disputes. Industrial disputes in 1976-77 resulted in the loss of 3.1 million working days. Compare that with 68 million working days lost as a result of unemployment in 1976-77. Total wages lost through industrial disputes were $100,71 last financial year. Compare that with the $2, 157m lost through unemployment. In other words, the wage loss through unemployment was 2 1 times higher than the wage loss through industrial disputes. 
Looking at the increase in unemployment in the period that this Government has been in office- the figure of 86,000 to which I referred before- annualised the number of working days lost through that increase in unemployment is 19,350,000, compared with the 3. 1 million working days lost through industrial disputes in 1976-77. The wage loss calculated from this annualised increase in unemployment under the Fraser Government is $6 14m. Compare that with the $ 100m lost through industrial disputes. This shows the enormity of the loss of production and the loss of income caused by this enormous increase in unemployment. In addition to the wage loss and the other value added loss we have the fact that unemployment involves a vast cost in unemployment benefits. This year it will cost us more than three-quarters of a billion dollars for unemployment benefits. The estimate is $780m and the cost could well be higher than the estimate, as it was last year. The severe social consequences of unemployment, to which I will refer in a moment, involve extensive economic costs in addition to the economic  costs  I have mentioned already. So, in total the economic consequences of unemployment in this country are nothing short of massive. They dwarf the losses through industrial disputes. 
I turn now to consider the social consequences. There is increasing evidence, both here and overseas, of the frightful social consequences of high and prolonged unemployment. The available evidence indicates that unemployment is directly related to increasing rates of general crime, suicide, mental illness, heart disease, drug addiction, domestic violence and other social disorders. In the time available I can indicate only briefly the nature of this evidence, but if any honourable member wants to obtain more details I can supply them to him. In regard to crime, a senior criminologist in the Australian Institute of Criminology's Research Division,  Dr Mukherjee,  was quoted recently as having said: 
Numerous overseas studies have shown unemployment and crime rates are related. 
The evidence in Australia is more scarce, but a report by a South Australian working group on youth unemployment last year showed that juvenile offences were much higher amongst the young unemployed than amongst those at school or in employment. 
In relation to suicide, there is a lot of evidence of increased suicide rates in Australia being related to unemployment, particularly amongst young people. A report by the Mental Health Authority of Victoria, published in February this year, showed that attempted suicide had reached almost epidemic proportions in two Victorian centres surveyed. They were Ballarat and Dandenong. In Ballarat one in every 40 of the unemployed men and women attempted suicide during each of the two years of the survey, whilst in Dandenong the proportion was one in 80.  Dr Abie  Kessel, the then acting  deputy  chief medical officer of the Victorian Health Authority, who worked on the survey, said: 
Suicide among the unemployed was one of the most striking features of the survey. 
Not surprisingly, the report also found that suicide rates were highest amongst young people who, of course, have the highest unemployment rate.  Dr Paul  Wilson, a reader in sociology at Queensland University, said recently that the suicide rate amongst young unemployed between the ages of IS and 24 years had risen by about 25 per cent in the past year. 
The director of the Link-Up welfare group in Melbourne,  Mr John  Dickinson, said recently that his group's telephone service for desperate people was averaging a suicide call every 30 hours. Such calls are up more than 30 per cent on last year. He also said that, whereas the age group involved used to be mid-30s to mid-40s, it is now mostly late teens to mid-20s. Again that is the highest unemployment group. One Melbourne hospital, the Alfred Hospital, reportedly is handling serious suicide attempts at the rate of four a day. Most of the people involved are in their teens and twenties and three-quarters of them are female. Daily rates for the other major Melbourne hospitals are as follows: Royal Melbourne, two serious suicide attempts a day; Saint Vincent's, two; Prince Henry, two; Western General, three; and Preston and Northcote, three.  Mr Dickinson,  of Link-Up, who talks regularly to these sorts of people, was quoted recently as having said: 
I think unemployment is a big contributor. 
The Melbourne  Age  of 6 June this year contained an article about mental illness. The article quoted the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations as confirming a link between mental illness and unemployment. It said: 
Unemployment is a cause of many people being admitted to Victorian mental hospitals, according to officers of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
It then quoted the officer in charge of the Department 's handicapped persons section as having said: 
In fact there is evidence emerging that the number of people entering psychiatric hospitals with problems directly related to unemployment is increasing significantly. 
Furthermore, a study published in the United States in 1973 entitled 'Mental Illness and the Economy' showed that over the past 100 years whenever the economy has turned down, thereby increasing unemployment, the rate of admission to mental hospitals has risen in a more or less exact ratio. 
Referring now to heart disease, Professor Noel Drane and  Mr Rex  Bunn of the School of Economics at the Macquarie University recently published a study which demonstrates that unemployment has played a major role in deaths from heart disease in Australia. It shows that over the last 50 years the rate of heart disease mortality has risen after increases in unemployment and has fallen with improvements in the job market. According to  Mr Keith  Windschuttle, the social historian at the New South Wales Institute of Technology, similar studies in the United States of America have produced much the same results. 
Turning now to drug addiction, although there are no studies that establish a clear link between drug addiction and unemployment, there are many indicators of such a connection. One such indicator is the evidence given to the Senate's 
Health and Welfare Committee this year by the director of the New South Wales Health Commission's central drug and alcohol advisory service, in which he stated that substantial groups of heroin addicts had been detected recently in three parts of Sydney- areas with high youth unemployment levels. They were Blacktown, Liverpool and Bankstown. An increasing number of addicts were also being detected in other areas of substantial unemployment. 
In regard to domestic violence, a survey conducted last year by the Royal Commission into Human Relationships of 1 1 1 women who went to the Elsie Women's Refuge in Sydney showed a definite link between unemployment and wife bashing. The survey showed that 44 per cent of the husbands who assaulted their wives had no regular work. These and other indicators of social disorder indicate the enormous problems being created by unemployment in this and other countries. It becomes almost criminal for a government to adopt policies which do not attempt to reduce unemployment. There is no doubt that there are massive social costs of unemployment. These costs are borne principally by the unemployed and their dependants, and they also involve important consequences for the whole of society through increased social disorder and the financial cost of attempting to control and treat that disorder. Even if one has no compassion for the unemployed surely one should be concerned for society as a whole. 
-We have just listened to another appalling speech from the representative of the silvertails in this House, the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton).  He was pursuing the same line as other honourable members on the Government side have pursued in speech after speech made both inside and outside this House, but principally outside it. An array of totally irresponsible speeches has come from Government Ministers. 
They have sought to do their very best to exacerbate industrial disputation in this country in an endeavour to find one platform by which they can retain power. The fact is that we have a destructive and divisive government- a government which is indulging in policies which are socially, economically and industrially divisive of our society and destructive of the Australian way of Life. The Government is using this issue of industrial disputes as a whipping boy for its own political purposes. Its own wages policy is the principal element in the fact that in the last few weeks there has been an exacerbation of industrial disputation. 
From listening to the remarks of the honourable member for Higgins one would never understand that in fact there has been a very substantial decline in industrial disputation in the last two or three years. Just let me quote some figures. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

-I know that honourable members opposite do not like to hear the figures, but if they just open their ears long enough to hear them they might learn what the figures are. The number of working days lost declined by 55 per cent in the first six months of 1975, compared with the first six months of 1974. In 1976 it fell by a further 27 per cent during the first six months compared with the same period of the previous year. This year the figure fell by a further 47.7 per cent. So, there has been a dramatic decline in the level of industrial disputation. 
At the initial stage at least, this had much to do with the fact that wage indexation was introduced as a result of the policies of the Whitlam Government. That system of wage indexation has been altered by the fact that this Government breached the fundamental promise which it made to the people of Australia in late 1975. It promised that it would abide by wage indexation. It did no such thing. Two months after it was elected it went before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and broke its promise to the Australian people completely. It said that the Commission should award only half of the increase that was then to be awarded on the basis of the consumer price index figure. It told the Commission that the increase should be 3.2 per cent instead of 6.4 per cent. From that point on the wage indexation system has inexorably reduced the wage levels of Australian workers. In quarter after quarter the real wage level of Australian workers has been reduced. The Government is destroying the living standards of the people of Australia. 
If the honourable member looks at the figures he will understand what is happening in this country. The living standards of workers are being reduced by the continual reduction in the real level of wages because of the non-application of full wage indexation. It is remarkable in that situation that the industrial disputes situation has not been exacerbated before this time. Over a period of one and threequarter years the trade union movement has recorded a very substantial decline in the level of industrial disputation, despite the fact that this Government has been slashing away at the living standards of its members. It is remarkable that the workers have not before this time started to take some action to try to restore the situation. It is inevitable, given the Government's wages policy, that eventually people will start to take that kind of action. It would not have happened had a Labor government been in office, because we would have maintained full wage indexation. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, concerns an answer given by him during Question Time yesterday in which he claimed that only by using the full consumer price index, including the Medibank element, as a price deflator is it possible to demonstrate a drop in total disposable family income during the last year. Has he ever looked at table 6 in Statement No. 2 of the Budget Papers which contain statistics regarding the movement in real household disposable income since March 1974? Is he aware that these statistics have been calculated using the implicit price deflator for private consumption rather than the consumer price index and that they show that the level of real household disposable income in the June quarter of this year was less than it was in the June quarter of 1976 and was below the level of any quarter since June 1974? In view of those facts will the Prime Minister now acknowledge that he misled the House yesterday and that his policies are indeed reducing the living standards of the Australian people? 
-The debate which is now commencing is not so much a debate as a parliamentary sham. To expect that a sensible debate can occur on a Bill comprising 28 pages of detailed amendments to one of the most complex Acts that this Parliament has ever passed, to expect this Parliament today to debate sensibly such provisions, introduced last night, in the period between now and 4.30 p.m. is ridiculous. It makes a mockery of the whole parliamentary process, and everyone on the other side of the House knows that that is the case. If the Government says that industrial relations in this country are so important, why not debate them in this House? Why does the Government always rush through legislation giving this side of the House no time at all to consider the details of the legislation? Bill after Bill has been rammed through the House with no opportunity at all for any sensible debate or discussion or even consideration by this side of the House. 
The Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill was rammed through this House in a most disgraceful fashion. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  introduced it with a one-minute speech. The Opposition had one hour in which to see the Bill before we debated it. This time we have a Bill comprising 28 pages of amendments, given to us at seven o'clock last night, to be debated now at half-past twelve. It is a total parliamentary sham, an absurdity, and honourable members opposite know that is the case. There is no possibility that anyone on this side of the House could have gone through all the clauses of the Bill and known exactly what was there. I suggest that the same goes for almost everyone on the other side of the House too, with the possible exception of the Minister and some others who may have been involved in the employment and industrial relations committee. Certainly there is no way that the Government will get from this debate, from either side of the House, a comprehensive understanding of what is in this legislation. It is extremely important legislation. It does democracy and the parliamentary process no service at all to indulge m this kind of exercise. 
This applies not only to the Bills that I have mentioned. The previous amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act passed at the end of the last session were rammed through in the same way. We sat one extra day, with less than a day's notice that we were to have that debate, so that that legislation could be rushed through the House. The amendments to the Trade Practices Act, which were extraordinarily complex and which were amended time after time, were finally passed through this House. When I rose to speak on the part of that Bill dealing with industrial relations I was faced with 12 pages of amendments handed to me across the table, amongst which were details of amendments affecting the industrial relations section of the Trade Practices Act. How can we possibly discuss this legislation sensibly in the whole industrial relation area, if the Government keeps squibbing on it? That is what the Government is doing. It says that industrial relations are very important but it squibs the debate every time. It is ridiculous and absurd, and I am sick and tired of it. The Opposition is quite willing to debate with any honourable members opposite at any time about industrial relations. We think that this is the appropriate forum in which to do so, but the Government squibs on every occasion and we are sick and tired of it. If the Government really thinks that industrial relations are so important it should give us time to talk about them. We will discuss them with honourable members opposite and we will show that their kind of industrial relations are a disaster for this country. What the Government is about is not so much improving industrial relations as trying to create an atmosphere in which it thinks it might have some political advantage. Well, it is very wrong about that. 
The fact is that this Bill goes far beyond any provisions which could excuse this legislation being rushed into the House at this time. Of course, the excuse is that it is necessary because of the State Electricity Commission dispute. But this Bill goes far beyond anything that could possibly be used in relation to the SEC dispute. What has financial accounting for unions to do with the SEC dispute? What have union ballots to do with the SEC dispute? What have demarcation provisions to do with the SEC dispute? There is a whole range of provisions in this Bill which have absolutely nothing to do with the SEC dispute. If the Government wants to bring in some amendments which it says, quite wrongly in our opinion, may have some relevance to the SEC dispute, wiry not do that? Why bring in this great ream of legislation which cannot possibly be considered by us in the time available either before the debate or during it? The whole thing is an absolute sham and a disgrace. 
Rather than being needed to settle industrial disputes, this legislation will only exacerbate industrial disputes. It is totally opposed by the unions. Despite the impression that may have been given by the Minister in his speech last night referring to points of agreement, this legislation is totally opposed by the trade union movement in this country, and I suspect that a lot of employers are not too happy about it either. Last May when similar legislation- not exactly the same, but similar legislation- was put before this Parliament the resolution of the Australian Council of Trade Unions executive was that if it were passed into law there would be massive economic dislocation in this country. Since that time, only a month or so ago, the ACTU congress endorsed a similar proposal. So the unions' attitude to this kind of legislation is well known. The Government knows that the unions will resist completely this kind of legislation and it knows that, by introducing it, it is raising the prospect of industrial confrontation. Of course, that is what the Government wants to achieve and that is why this legislation is being introduced. 
The Government knows that the penalty procedures which it has introduced in this legislation have been against trade union policy since 1969. It knows that the attempt to impose that kind of legislation will mean that there will be strong resistance from the trade union movement. It knows that that will lead to industrial confrontation. I suggest that that is really what the 
Government wants to achieve. So much for a good industrial relations policy. There is not a thing in this legislation which is aimed at improving industrial relations. Rather, it is waving an enormous stick at the unions and threatening to undermine their position in many ways. I will come to this later. 
The background to this legislation is one of deceipt and deception. Legislation similar to this was introduced in March last year. It was vigorously opposed by the unions- not just bv the ACTU but by the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Associations and also by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. Both of these white collar organisations, CAGEO being predominantly a white collar union, agreed completely with the ACTU that this legislation should be totally opposed. Yet similar legislation is now being brought before this Parliament. However, the ACTU proposed a compromise on 1 1 May of this year. I quote from a statement by the ACTU officers at a conference with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: 
Having expressed at length the detailed reasons for our total opposition to the Government's proposed amendments to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act, we make the following statement: 
This existing legislation contains a range of 'pains and penalties' provisions. It is known that some of those provisions conflict with the policy of the Australian Trade Union Movement. 
What we therefore put now does not imply into the future a change of our policy in that respect. However, that is not the current issue. 
On that basis we put two propositions for the earnest consideration of the Government. These propositions are put in the deeply held belief that confrontation and massive dislocation, if avoidable whilst still adhering to principle, is against the best interests of the Australian community. 
First, if the Government wishes to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing pains and penalties and processes into the hands of a body which they wish to designate as an Industrial Relations Bureau- and there is no explicit or implicit addition to those existing provisions or processes- the Trade Union Movement, while regarding such a move as unnecessary, would offer no objection. 
The statement went on to indicate that the ACTU would also agree to participate in the National Labour Advisory Council with a view to achieving agreed improvements in that area. So the basis on which the ACTU made its compromise proposal was quite clear. The first requirement was that there be no change in the powers or processes by which the Bureau operated compared with those of the previous Inspectorate. The ACTU saw the NLAC as something in which it would participate with a view to achieving agreement improvements in that area. Following that, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations issued a statement on 1 7 May which stated: 
The Government has decided to pass legislation this Session to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau which will have the function of securing the observance of the Act and Awards in the terms already in the Act. 
Pending the detailed consideration of the Act referred to later in this statement, the Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more and no less, and those powers will be exercised according to the same processes as they have been until now. 
He went on to say that the Government would also legislate for the National Labour Advisory Council, which later became the National Labour Consultative Council. So the Minister said that he would agree that the same processes and powers would be accorded to the Bureau as were accorded to the previous Arbitration Inspectorate. But what is the reality in this? It is that the powers which were then given to the Bureau exceeded those of the Arbitration Inspectorate. This represented a total breach of the agreement reached with the ACTU. The powers given to the Bureau were the same as for the Inspectorate in every respect but one, and that one difference was that the Arbitration Inspectorate was subject to ministerial control and the Bureau was made subject to no such control. 
That is a very important difference indeed because as the Inspectorate had operated in the past, its power to initiate prosecutions in various areas had not been used. This was so under Labor governments and Liberal governments in the past. But once the Government abolished the power provided under section 125 sub-section (4) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which provided for ministerial control, and gave the Bureau a statutory obligation to ensure adherence to the Act, regulations and awards it gave the Bureau a statutory duty to prosecute anyone who breached the Act, regulations or awards, regardless of the industrial relations consequences. In fact, if the Director of the Bureau did not initiate such prosecutions he would be in breach of his statutory duty as Director of the Bureau. No intervention by the Department or by the Minister was possible, although it had been possible with the Inspectorate in the past. Let me read the criteria by which the Inspectorate operated in the past in respect of award breaches by employees. This information was tabled by the Minister early this year. I do not know why he did so as it is an acute embarrassment to him. 
It was this year. The document reads: 
Award breaches by employees ... are subject to the same fundamental enforcement policy as award breaches by employers. However application of this policy must take account of the difference in the nature of the breaches. For this reason, and because of the complexity of the issue involved, Directors are to refer all alleged employee award breaches to Central Office for decision as to whether a breach exists and whether proceedings under section 1 19 will be instituted. In referring such matters, Directors should provide their assessment as to whether a breach exists. 
It was clearly and concisely indicated that the inspectors had to direct any proposed prosecutions to the central office of the Department for assessment as to whether there should be a prosecution. That requirement does not exist in respect of the Bureau. It is a fundamental difference. The fact that the legislation passed last June has not yet been proclaimed means that this legislation has not yet come into operation, but it will do so in the very near future. It will mean that the Bureau will have a statutory obligation, for instance, to prosecute anyone who breaches section 138- the incitement to boycott provision. Anyone who advises, encourages and incites anyone else to go on strike or in any way to place any ban or limitation upon work will be liable to a prosecution and a fine of $400. 
If the Government applies that section, as the Bureau will be compelled to do under this legislation- there will be no control by the Government as to whether it is done- it will be able to prosecute many persons each year. If that is what the Government wants to do I suppose this legislation will achieve its point. But it certainly will not improve industrial relations that way. It will bring about massive industrial unrest with that proposal. But that is what is involved in the legislation introduced by the Government to this point of time, regardless of what is being done by the legislation before us right now. All I am doing is providing the background of the deceit and deception which led to the breach of the agreement reached with the ACTU in respect of the powers and processes of the Bureau. 
The legislation which is before the House, although considered by the unions in the National Labour Consultative Council and although some amendments were made, is still strongly opposed by the unions. Let there be no doubt about that. This legislation is implacably opposed by the ACTU and by the other peak councils in this country. The Government's insistence on continuing with this legislation could well lead to unions pulling out of the National Labour Consultative Council. As I said, the unions agreed to go into the NLCC with the aim of achieving agreed changes to the Act. But what happened? All that happened was that when they got to the NLCC they were thrown a whole heap of proposed amendments. Some notice was taken of some of the objections they put up, but no attempt was made to reach total agreement. 
What has happened is that there has been consultation in the sense that the unions have been shown what the Government intends to do; some minor changes have been made to the Government's proposals; then the legislation has been put before the House. In those circumstances I think it is highly likely- it is not for me to say whether it will happen- that peak councils will say: 'To hell with your National Labour Consultative Council if that is all it is about'. If that is what the Government wants to achieve it is going the right way about it. 
What about the employers- are they in favour of this legislation? We have not been told that they are. I have good reasons to believe that some employers at least are quite strongly opposed to this sort of legislation. Certainly when this sort of legislation was put up last time various employer organisations expressed considerable doubt as to whether this sort of legislation would achieve anything. The Australian Industries Development Association went quite public and gave detailed reasons why it thought this sort of legislation would not work and should be rejected by the Government. That was just one amongst a number. But what about this occasion? Have the employers all agreed that this sort of legislation is just what we need to promote good industrial relations? I think they probably have not. The Minister should tell us whether he has total agreement from the employers in regard to this sort of legislation. 
This legislation also greatly increases the powers of the Industrial Relations Bureau. Provisions for the establishment of this body were included in legislation which came to this House in March last year. At that time the Industrial Relations Bureau was said to be an industrial ombudsman- a kindly sort of body which would try to look after the complaints of people involved in industrial relations. What a joke; what an absurd description that was! This so-called industrial ombudsman has been given enormous powers. It in fact will be an industrial police force, which will be there to impose a whole array of pains and penalties upon the unions if that legislation is enacted. That is what the Bureau will be there for; not to make sure that the unions have their rights enforced, as an ombudsman is supposed to do. In fact, it is to be the policeman who takes them to court and through the processes of being fined and penalised. That is what the Industrial Relations Bureau is about. 
Consider the powers it will have. It could initiate penalty proceedings under sections 33 and 109 of the Act and carry them right through to completion. So we will be right back to the pre- 1969 days when unions were taken through the industrial court and fined for breaches of bans clauses. It could seek the cancellation of an award. That is a nice conciliatory approach! It could seek deregistration of unions. Of course, the grounds for that will be much widened under the legislation presently before the House. Where a union or its officers or members are suspended, as will be provided for in this legislation, the Bureau can seek renewal of the suspension. So the Bureau will play the role of seeking time after time the suspension of unions, union officials or members. It can investigate union rules or adherence to rules on its own initiative. It can apply for demarcation orders to exclude a union from covering employees engaged in certain work. 
All this is not the role of some industrial ombudsman: It is the role of an industrial police force. Let there be no hiding of our light under a bushel: That is what it is. It is an industrial police force brought in to enforce various provisions, both existing and new, against the trade union movement. In so doing, the Bureau does not have to have any regard whatever to any objectives about improving industrial relations in this country. Nowhere in this legislation is there any provision for it to have regard to the industrial relations implications of what it is doing. It purely has this role to enforce the Act, regulations and awards in the way in which they will be expanded by this Bill. In the face of all this it is absurd to describe the Bureau as an ombudsman. 
The Bill provides a new range of pains and penalties for industrial action. The industrial action definition is extremely wide. It goes far beyond mere industrial stoppages. Clause 3 (b) of the Bill describes industrial action as: 
the performance of work ... in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to such work, the result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of the work; 
a ban, limitation or restriction on the performance of work . . . 
a failure or refusal by persons to attend for work . . . 
So there we have a very wide-ranging definition of industrial action. From that industrial action so widely defined- just doing work in a way different from the way in which it is normally performed or a work to rule or anything like that- flow a lot of very important implications for unions. For instance, there are extremely wide grounds for deregistration. Industrial action that prevents, hinders or interferes with trade or commerce with other countries or amongst the States becomes the basis of deregistration proceedings. 
Industrial action can mean a work to rules campaign that is a very mild form of industrial action indeed, but it does come within the definition of industrial action. If that involved trade or commerce, either interstate or overseas, it would be a basis for deregistering a whole union. Incredible! But that is what is proposed by this kind of legislation. Of course once you have taken into account trade or commerce overseas or amongst the States, you have not left too much untouched, particularly when you follow that up with provision of any public service. Deregistration is a fairly important proceeding. On the few occasions on which it has been used, I think it has been counter productive. Nevertheless, it is an important proceeding. To suggest that deregistration could occur on the basis of very mild industrial action seems to me to be a total absurdity; but that is what this legislation proposes. Also conduct not authorised by the union rules is a basis for deregistration proceedings. 
As I have mentioned, there is a self-defeating nature about deregistration. Once a union or a section of a union is deregistered as this legislation will allow, there is no control whatever by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Deregistration means that the union is then outside the system. You are not just imposing a penalty by taking away award cover; you are throwing that union right out of the system. That means that you cannot start imposing a means of settlement through the Arbitration Commissioner, or if you want to, apply penalties. The whole process of dealing with industrial disputation ceases once the union is deregistered. It is a self-defeating proposal. The only way in which it can work is if the unions are so frightened of deregistration that they would give in on the expectation that they would be deregistered if they undertook certain action. 
So, as I said, deregistration is basically a selfdefeating exercise. It is not going to achieve anything, for instance, in the case of the State Electricity Commission workers. Under section 143 (2) (a) as amended, sectional deregistration would enable the Government to deregister the employees who are on strike at the SEC in Victoria. But what is the use if you deregister the SEC workers? The strike would more than likely still continue. I could not imagine that at this stage the threat of deregistration would send them scurrying back to work. Current arbitration proceedings could not continue if they were deregistered. We have a work value case starting today which hopefully may go a long way towards settling this dispute. Hopefully it will get the men back to work soon and there will be a settlement of this dispute. Everyone is hoping that that will be the case. But on the very same day as this process begins, this Government brings on for debate in this House legislation which proposes the possibility of deregistering the SEC workers? If the Government does deregister them, that will be the end of the arbitration proceedings. There will be no more work value case; they will be out of the system. Does the Government think that is going to solve anything? I think the Government is really having itself on if it believes that that action would in any way assist in the resolution of that kind of dispute. Nor can any other initiatives be taken through the Arbitration Commission to settle that dispute. If they are deregistered, not only would that work value case go out, but any other initiative through the Commission would be finished. It would more than likely ensure that the strikers just stuck it out until their claim was settled through direct bargaining with the Victorian Government. 
This selective deregistration is also possible because maybe the Essential Services Act in Victoria cannot be applied until the SEC workers are deregistered in view of the possible conflict between State and Federal law. It may well be that the Essential Services Act in Victoria, which involves provisions for ordering workers back to work, cannot be implemented while Federal law applies. So selective deregistration may be aimed at that particular situation. If that is the case, if the Government is passing this legislation in a hurry to bring about selective deregistration of the SEC workers so that  Mr Hamer  can apply the Essential Services Act to the SEC workers, I still say it is not going to bring about any sort of a solution to the dispute in the Latrobe Valley. It will not in any way get to the basics of that dispute. It will simply mean that the Victorian Government, under the Essential Services Act, will be able to order the men back to work. But are they going to go back to work? Is there any reason to suspect that an order under the Essential Services Act would be more likely to make them go back to work than the threat of penalty being applied through this system? I do not think so. I do not think that fine of a couple of hundred dollars at this stage will make an enormous difference to their attitude. I think their general belief would be: 'We have stuck it out to this stage. They cannot get blood out.of a stone, anyway. We are all broke and the threat of fines is just going to make us more solid than ever.' 
We think this whole pains and penalties approach by the Government is simply counterproductive. It does not bring about good industrial relations. It does not solve industrial disputes. At no stage have we seen action of a constructive nature by this Government which is designed to bring about a settlement of the dispute in the Latrobe Valley- by any sort of initiative in the Arbitration Commission or otherwise. All we have seen has been the pains and penalties approach which is now before us in this debate. 
We believe that a key reason for the introduction of this selective deregistration legislation in this terrible hurry is that the Government wishes to clear the way for  Mr Hamer's  Essential Services Act to be applied. If this is so, I still say that it will not solve anything in the Latrobe Valley dispute. In fact the use of that sort of legislation while a work value case is being heard before Commissioner Mansini could well send the whole thing spinning off into oblivion again. It is totally counter-productive. 
Alternative penalties are provided in this legislation. Where a union is m a position where deregistration or selective deregistration is applicable, an alternative set of penalties are available. A power is given to the Industrial Court to order suspension of the rights and privileges of union officials, of the union itself or of its members. The rights, privileges or capacities of the organisation or any of its members can be suspended. The Court will have the power to give directions as to the exercise of any rights, privileges or capacities and to restrict the use of funds or property of the organisation or a branch of the organisation. That is an alternative to deregistration. If that kind of provision were to be utilised in the Latrobe Valley case, again one could not see exactly what would be achieved. If you suspend the employment rights and privileges of the SEC workers who are all on strike- they are not covered by the award while they are on strike, anyway- how are you going to suspend any privileges which they have not virtually suspended for themselves? So this is again something which just cannot be seen to be very useful in terms of this dispute. If it were applied to union officials, such as  Mr Halfpenny,  who have been involved in the dispute people would be suspended who may have the best chance of settling the dispute. 
-It is very interesting that the Minister makes that querulous interjection. The fact is, as I understand it, that  Mr Halfpenny  has been booed and jeered a number of times in the Latrobe Valley when he has made suggestions about ways of going about resolving the dispute. So far as I can see his role has been a conciliatory one of trying to solve the dispute rather than exacerbate it. But the Government sees him as some sort of whipping boy. If a person like that who has much more a chance of getting the backing of the men, than the Minister or anyone in the Government, is suspended, you are suspending someone who may bring about a resolution of the dispute. Use of that kind of power will not solve anything. 
If the Government insists on bringing in this kind of legislation either in relation to the SEC dispute or any other dispute it will bring about an enormous reaction from the trade union movement. If the Government thinks the Federal Court of Australia will be allowed to take over the trade union movement, suspend its officials, direct its funds, direct the operations of the unions and the union movement will quietly accept that, the Government has another think coming. I cannot believe that the union movement will allow without substantial protests such action to occur. It means that unions can be virtually wiped out by that kind of provision. It means that they can be suspended for six months and then for another six months and then for another six months. This can go on indefinitely so long as the Bureau keeps making the application and the Court keeps granting it. 
My speaking time is running out. There is a lot more that should be said about this legislation. It is legislation which is totally counter-productive. It is legislation which will not solve industrial disputes in this country. It will not improve industrial relations. It will not improve the SEC dispute. It is legislation which has been brought before this Parliament in such a hurry for reasons which have more to do with elections than they have to do with industrial relations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 1.2 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
How many computer system officers are and have been employed by each Commonwealth Government Department and each Commonwealth Statutory Authority in each of the years 1970-71 to 1976-77, inclusive. 
What has been the rate of resignation and recruitment with respect to each of these departments and authorities. 
How many of the computer systems officers currently employed by the Public Service have been (a) graduate trained, (b) diploma trained and (c) otherwise trained. 
What arrangements have been made by the Government to facilitate the training of computer system officers generally and within the Public Service. 
How many temporary computer system officers are currently employed by each department and authority. 
Is the hiring of temporary operators as a result of a shortage or as a device to escape constraints placed on departments by staff ceilings; if not, why are they being employed. 
~How many temporary operators are being held against positions outside of staff ceilings. 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the Smith Ferranti Report on Computer Education Needs in Australia. 
If so, would the needs of the Public Service be met by the implementation of recommendations of the Smith Ferranti Report; if so, when are the recommendations going to be followed. 
What are computer system officers paid relative to clerical grades in the Public Service, in each grade. 
Are there any impediments to promotion by computer system officers compared to clerical grades in the Public Service. 
Have any departments and authorities purchased computer hardware which cannot be operated at anticipated capacity due to shortage of computer system officers; if so, which departments and authorities, and what plans have been made to overcome the shortage. 
Are any departments and authorities delaying planned projects involving data processing as a result of staff shortages; if so, which departments and authorities. 
14) How many reports by Government Departments are being delayed by a lack of computer system officers. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns the Government's agreement at the Premiers Conference last Friday to reduce the qualifying period of unemployment for eligibility under the Special Youth Employment Training program from six months to four months. I ask the Prime Minister: Is he aware that this improvement was proposed by the Opposition in a statement entitled 'A Proposal to Get Australia Working Again', which was issued in August prior to the Budget being announced? Will the Prime Minister inform the House how many other Opposition policies he intends to adopt in his desperation to improve his Government's electoral standing? 
-The estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which are before the Committee are indicative of the totally inadequate response of the Fraser Government to the crisis situation that exists in our community in respect of unemployment. There were 82,000 more eople registered as unemployed at the end of September 1977 than there were in September 1975, at which time the then Opposition said that the economic situation was such that it was justified in breaching the conventions of decent political behaviour in this country and refusing to pass Supply. The unemployment situation is much worse now and the estimates of this Department, which is a key department in this area of unemployment, reflect the fact that this Government gives a very low priority to the problem of unemployment. 
The unemployment situation can be looked at in many ways. If one compares the total number of registered unemployed with the number of registered job vacancies one sees a frightening deterioration in the unemployment situation. Today the ratio of registered unemployed to job vacancies is 16 to 1. Only a year ago it was 1 1 to 1. So in the course of one year- the last year- we have had a very substantial deterioration in the chances of any unemployed person getting a job. In some areas of Australia the unemployment rates are absolutely frightening. In Mount Druitt, in the western suburbs of Sydney, the unemployment rate in September was 1 7.4 per cent with a ratio of registered unemployed to job vacancies of 63 to 1. In St Albans, in the western suburbs of Melbourne, the unemployment rate was 19 per cent with a ratio of registered unemployed to job vacancies of 36 to 1. In Woodridge in Brisbane the unemployment rate was 26.3 per cent with a ratio of unemployed to job vacancies of 45 to 1. Amongst young people in the month of August the unemployment rate for young girls was 19.1 per cent and for young boys 14.6 per cent. These are incredibly frightening statistics and yet, in this Department where one would expect that a series of measures would be taken to try to do something effective about this appalling situation, brought about substantially by the macro-economic policies, little if anything has been done. 
The macro-economic policy is a very important aspect of unemployment. If the Government adopts an economic policy which has as its essence the slashing of government demand and the slashing of the real level of wages, thereby reducing consumer demand, it is inevitable that there will be an expansion, a growing continuance of unemployment- and that is what has happened. If that is then backed up by a series of totally inadequate manpower policies we must expect that unemployment will become much worse. 
In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  claimed that funding for the employment training schemes had been increased by 33 per cent over that for the previous year. That is true on the face of the figures, but he neglected to state the fact that in 1976-77 the funding for employment training programs was less than it was in the previous financial year, 1975-76. It was only slightly less, but still there was no increase despite a substantial increase in inflation. The real level of manpower programs in 1976-77, the first financial year under the Fraser Government, was well below that provided by the Hayden Budget in 1975. So for the Government to pat itself on the back now for making some belated increase in the level of expenditure on manpower programs seems utterly untoward. The fact is that the 33 per cent increase referred to in the Budget Speech barely keeps ahead of the increase in prices of 29 per cent over the last two years, giving a minimal increase in the level of real expenditure on manpower programs. 
If one looks at the manpower programs in some detail one can see the appalling inadequacy of them. There is no job creation program whatever. Why is it that this LiberalNational Country Party Government refuses to do what various other Liberal-Country Party governments have done in past years- m 1971, in 1967, in 1961? In recessions which were nowhere near as bad as this one Liberal-Country Party governments funded job creation programs. If they were proper then why are they not proper now when unemployment is so much worse and when in areas of Australia one-fifth of the work force or more is out of work? Why have there been no such programs in this Budget or in any previous Budget of this Government? It is an absolute disgrace and a scandal that the Government refuses to introduce such programs. If one goes to other countries one sees these programs generally in operation. Even in the United States of America, where the private enterprise ethic is surely as strong as it is in this country, there are very substantial job creation programs. 
I think that the main reason that there are no job creation programs in this country is that the Federal Government that we have at the moment has an ideological objection to creating jobs in the government sector. It is trying to reduce the number of government jobs by reducing staff ceilings and it refuses to create government jobs through direct job creation programs because it has this ideological block. It does not want to create jobs in the government sector. In the United States they have a job creation program which is aimed at producing 750,000 jobs. Earlier this year I attended the International Labour Organisation meeting. I heard the American Minister for Labor,  Mr Marshall,  say that the policy of the American Government was to reduce the level of unemployment. It wanted to create those jobs in the private sector but it could see that in the foreseeable future it would not be able to do so and therefore it was going to create them in the government sector. This Government totally wipes out that option and in doing so ensures that there is a much higher level of unemployment in this country than there need be. I hardly need to remind the Committee about the Regional Employment Development scheme which operated under the Australian Labor Party Government. In our last Budget $150m was devoted to it and it provided over 30,000 jobs at one stage. It has now been abandoned by this Government and no such scheme is operating now. 
Furthermore, the special youth employment training program, which has been introduced and which is the one program which is supposed to provide jobs, has increased youth employment somewhat. We do not deny that at all. At the moment it has provided jobs for 11,800 young people. But this scheme is deficient in the way in which it is being operated. It is deficient in that there is no attempt by the Government to ensure that new jobs are being created. Because of the loose way in which the Special Youth Employment Training Program is operated without any attempt to make employers justify the granting of the subsidy by showing that they are creating additional jobs, the result, as the Opposition sees it, is that 1 1,800 young people have jobs, but at the expense of other people. Certainly it is desirable to create jobs for young people. The Opposition does not deny that but if the net result is that there is no increase or a minimal increase in the total number of jobs, it is a fairly selfdefeating exercise. The Opposition believes that if the Special Youth Employment Training Program is to be continued- the Opposition believes it should be- it should also be tightened to ensure that employers are made to show that they are providing additional jobs. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, in a booklet titled  Entry of Young People into Working Life  which was published this year, has addressed itself to that topic. I will not refer to it in detail because of lack of time, but at page 83 it makes the point that employers should be required to show the Government that they are going to provide additional jobs. 
I make the point also that the funding for this program will enable the Government to fund 5,500 jobs per month for the whole of the year. There are currently 11,800 young people being funded under this scheme. Does the Government intend that this scheme will continue at this level and higher for the rest of the financial year, or will it after the election chop out the scheme and not have to increase its funding? If the Government is going to expand its funding it will have to add another $ 18m to $20m just to keep the current numbers going. Insofar as it expands the eligibility criteria to include more young people, it will have to increase its funding even more. The apprenticeship scheme in this country is totally unsatisfactory. I briefly refer the Committee to the fact that over the five years to 1975 we lost 150,000 tradesmen. Those figures are supplied by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The fact is that subsidy-type schemes are not good enough. The OECD committee into education policy in Australia said last year that we should be looking not just at subsidy schemes for attracting employers but also at compulsion schemes, at levy-granting schemes which compel employers to train the appropriate quota of tradesmen. The Australian Labor Party has adopted a policy which means that after it wins the next election it will be looking to introduce such a scheme because without it we will not train anything like the total number of tradesmen needed in this country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Bills now before the House provide for a considerable restructuring of the stevedoring industry in respect of the arrangements covering the employment and deployment of waterside workers. I am pleased to be able to say that the Opposition does not oppose this legislation. In so saying, I draw attention to the irony of the situation where on a non-contentious industrial issue, such as that now before us, the normal time has been given to the Opposition to consider the legislation between its introduction and the commencement of debate in this House. However, on highly contentious industrial legislation, such as the recent amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which affected not just one industry but almost every industry in the country, the Opposition was given practically no time at all to consider it before it was brought on for debate and rammed through the Parliament. If there was any rationality at all in the way this Government runs the Parliament, one would surely expect than the more - 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns an answer he gave earlier this week in which he claimed that Australia's rates of inflation and unemployment in comparison with those of selected overseas countries were worse under Labor than under his own Administration. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a recent report by a responsible economic commentator which demonstrated that, in comparison with the average performance of all member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Australia's performance in respect of economic growth, unemployment and inflation has deteriorated since the Fraser Government came to office? If he has seen the report does he now acknowledge that by his earlier statements alleging the opposite result he misled the House? If he has not read the report will he do so soon and learn the real facts of this important matter? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
1 ) On how many of the 78 recommendations of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, which were referred to the Public Service Board and on which the Board reported to the Prime Minister on 30 November 1976, have decisions been made. 
How many and which of these decisions have been made public 
Will decisions on other recommendations be announced. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
1) How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Employment Office area of Greensborough, Victoria, at the end of (a) August 1975 (b) August 1976 and (c) August 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males and (b) females (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
-At the outset I remind the House of the quite remarkable statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in this debate. The Treasurer said that the Government rejects at the outset of this Parliament that the economy is in any sort of recession. That is indeed a remarkable statement. If 7 per cent unemployment does not constitute a recession what in God's name level of unemployment do we need before we can say that we have a recession? Obviously it is ridiculous to assert that this economy is not currently in a state of recession. In our view, it is only a matter of our saying 'depression' rather than 'recession'. The fact is that we have a high level of unemployment. It has become much higher during the last two years, and all the indicators are that it will become much higher in the next couple of years if this Government pursues its current policies. 
I remind the House that in the last two yearsfrom January 1976 to January 1978 - unemployment increased by 101,000. Most of that unemployment occurred in 1977. In other words, as this Government's policies got into gear, as the Government really started to get hold of the economy, the rate of unemployment accelerated remarkably. In 1976 whilst Labor Party policies were still having some effect, the increase was only of the order of 10,600. But from January 1977 to January 1978 there was an increase of 90,700. We have had a much more rapid rate of increase in unemployment in the last year and, indeed, this looks like continuing if something does not happen in this Government's policies to bring about a dramatic change. 
Another example of the extraordinary change in the labour market is the ratio of unemployed to job vacancies. Two years ago there were only 9.8 unemployed for each job vacancy. That was bad enough but compare it with what it is now. There are now 18.3 unemployed for each job vacancy- a virtually doubling in that time. So let us have no talk about dole bludgers and that sort of thing. Undoubtedly there may be some people who do not want to work but currently there are 445,000 registered unemployed and 24,300 registered job vacancies- 18.3 unemployed for each job vacancy. Quite clearly, if every job vacancy were filled there would still be a very high level of unemployment. Furthermore, if we look at the level of employment over the last two years we will see that the total number of wage and salary earners in civilian employment has actually fallen by 8,000. There are fewer than two years ago. In private enterprise there are 65,000 fewer in employment. There has been a very substantial reduction over that period. Where is the turning on of the lights that we were promised two years ago? I submit that this has happened for reasons which have very much to do with the policies produced by this Government. 
Clearly the Government has a grave responsibility for this alarming situation that now faces us. Indeed, it deserves the strongest condemnation for pursuing policies that have promoted such high levels of unemployment, for indicating that it continues to pursue those policies and for its absolute lack of compassion for the victims of those policies. Firstly, let me consider the policies that have promoted unemployment. Basically it stems from the Government's approach that inflation reduction is the prime policy aim. Implied in that is that there will be a trade-off for higher unemployment. What is said quite clearly by the Government is that it is going to reduce inflation and if it has to increase unemployment substantially to reduce inflation then it will do so. That, of course, has been the policy it has pursued for the last two years. We do not deny that inflation has been reduced, nor do we deny that it is an important policy objective to reduce inflation. Indeed, we share the Government 's concern about reducing the rate of inflation to much lower levels but we totally disagree with the Government that we should be prepared to pay the price of a substantial increase in unemployment in order to bring that about. This is the basic policy difference between the Opposition and the Government. We want to launch a simultaneous attack on inflation and unemployment. The Government says: 'We do not care about unemployment. We are going to get inflation down first'. In saying that, it is totally out of step with the economic policy being pursued in most other Western countries. It is totally out of step with the policies being recommended by responsible bodies like the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the International Monetary Fund and others. This Government is pursuing a policy which virtually makes it unique in the Western world. It is a policy of increasing unemployment and having no concern for the people who become unemployed as a result. 
As to the policy of cutting government expenditure, in real terms there was a 4 per cent cut in 1976 and a further cut of one per cent in 1977. Those cuts in government expenditure in real terms reduced the real level of demand coming into the economy and therefore meant that there was going to be more unemployment unless there was an increase in demand from some other quarter. What was that other quarter going to be? Was the demand going to come from the consumers? The consumers are mainly wage and salary earners and their real income has been slashed quarter by quarter for the last two years. In six out of the last seven national wage cases the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, being heavily leaned on by this Government, has given less than full wage indexation. Indeed, the Commission has applied about 70 per cent of full wage indexation which has resulted in a very substantial reduction in the real level of wages. So the people who are having their real incomes reduced quarter by quarter- their wages going up at a lesser rate than inflation- are at the same time being told by this Government: 'If only you would spend more, then we could have some sort of economic recovery'. What a ludicrous economic policy. If people can see unemployment facing them with more and more people going out of work, if their real incomes are being reduced, why should they suddenly rush into the streets and spend all their money? This is an absurd proposition but that is the policy being pursued by this Government. 
The wages policy being pursued by this Government implies a very substantial further reduction in real wages. In the latest national wage case the Government pursued the concepta concept with which many members of this House may not be familiar- known as the real wage overhang. The real wage overhang, says the Government, is the measure of the excess of real wages over the level of productivity. The Government says this real wage overhang is of the order of 10 per cent. In other words, real wages should be cut by 10 per cent so that we can have good economic recovery. We say it is a ludicrous economic policy to cut real wages by 10 per cent and expect there to be an increase in consumer demand and economic recovery in the near future. That is an economic monstrosity of a policy but that is the policy that is being pursued by this Government and we reject it totally. 
In saying that, may I also make the point that the Treasurer has said that if the Labor States wanted to be responsible they would fall in with this Government's wages policy. He cannot even get the non-Labor States to support his own wages policy. The fact is that in the last national wage case only Western Australia supported the Federal Government's wages policy. Queensland and Victoria supported some increase in wages; not full wage indexation but some increase. They certainly did not support the policies being pursued by the Federal Government. 
Further, there is the policy of boosting investment by the investment allowance and what this is doing, as the Government itself has argued quite strenuously in the national wage case, is increasing investment at the expense of jobs. This is what the Government keeps arguing in national wage cases. It says that we are having a big increase in investment. But it is almost totally in labour replacement investment. It is not capital widening; it is not creating more jobs; it is putting more people out of work. At the same time there is the 40 per cent investment allowance which is encouraging employers, at a time when there is no increase in demand for their goods, to go heavily into new machinery. Inevitably, of course, they go in for more capital intensive production which puts more people out of work. As 1 said, there are 65,000 fewer employed in private enterprise now than there were two years ago; and no wonder with this sort of policy being pursued. 
The fact is that along with all of those policies we have had, despite what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  says, a very pathetic effort in the manpower area. There has been nothing in the way of job creation programs in the government sector. Despite the fact that previous Liberal-National Country Party governments in 1961, 1967 and 1971 had job creation programs in the government sector for local government and State government, this Government with much higher levels of unemployment refuses to introduce any such scheme. Therefore there is no job creation and no attempt to assist the States and local government to alleviate unemployment by creating jobs. Furthermore, in the areas that the Minister has mentioned, such as the special youth employment training program, there is no demand for subsidising new jobs. It is not a matter of adding to the work force. It is just a matter of subsidising the same level of people as the Government employed before, so there is no job creation there. The new apprenticeship scheme known as CRAFT- the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme- has, as the Minister has said, had an increase of 8 per cent in intake. We acknowledge that; that is not insignificant, but it is nowhere near what is needed. We are losing 50,000 tradesmen a yearthis is according to figures I have from the Minister's own Department- because the intake nowhere near matches the number of people leaving the skilled work force. Employers just will not employ apprentices any more or at least nowhere near the numbers that are needed. What we have, instead of a comprehensive attack on unemployment through this program, is a reshuffling of the subsidy scheme which has had some marginal impact but nowhere near tackles the real problem. On top of all those other policies which I have not time to go into, we have of course the fact that this Government has shown a total lack of concern for the individuals who are unemployed. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister which concerns his reported statement at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting criticising calls for more expansionary policies to be adopted by developed countries as a means of overcoming the international recession. Is he aware that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the International Monetary Fund have both recently called for more expansionary policies to be adopted and that his reported statements therefore place his Government in conflict with these authoritative bodies? Does he not realise that an intensified world recession which would flow from the unlikely acceptance by other countries of his gratuitous advice would also intensify recession and unemployment in Australia? Will he explain also to the House by what logic he advocates policies of slower growth in the world economy yet simultaneously deplores the increasing protectionism which is being spawned by the world recession? 
-The Opposition has raised this matter of public importance for discussion today because the recession in this country, which has been continuing for almost three years, is a matter of enormous importance to this Parliament and this country. It is of particular importance given the fact that various Government spokesmen are conducting a campaign of trying to delude the Australian public into believing that in fact there is now no such recession and that the recession is well behind us. In the first sitting week of the Parliament and on the first business day of the Parliamentlast Wednesday- three key government spokesmen made such claims. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said:  the Government rejects at the  outset of  this parliamentary term the notion that the Australian economy is in any kind of recession. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  when addressing the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia, referred to 'the economic recession from which we have been emerging over the past two years'. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who represents the Treasurer in the Senate, said:  . . . under the overall money management plan of this country we have achieved, together with the balance of payments, a rectification of the recession which occurred some four years ago. 
So there we have three clear statements on the economy by Government spokesmen who are trying to convey the impression that the recession is well behind us. This attempt by the Government is in the face of completely contrary evidence. The fact is that the recession is very much with us. There is a welter of evidence to show that that is the case. Indeed, on the very day that these three senior Government spokesmen proclaimed the non-existence of the recession, the Australian Statistician published building statistics for the December quarter which showed that the number of dwellings under construction at the end of December was at the lowest level for six years. The next day he published factory production statistics which showed a further decline. Two days later Chrysler Australia Ltd announced a massive and unprecedented loss of $27m for the year 1977. 
These daunting statistics would seem to me to meet the broad definition of the word 'recession' as defined in the  Oxford Dictionary,  namely, 'a slump in trade'. Indeed, there is a mass of evidence available to demonstrate that Australia is well and truly in a state of recession or even depression. The Penguin  Dictionary of Economics  defines the word 'depression' as 'that state of the economy in which men and machinery remain unemployed persistently, as compared with a recession during which unemployment is of short duration'. 
On that basis we could well say that we are still in the midst of a depression. The rate of unemployment is not only increasing continuously- it is now in excess of 7 per cent- but also has been well above historic levels for more than three years. Unemployment is indeed the most obvious indicator of recessional depression. It is almost unbelievable that at a time of record unemployment- it is the highest for 40 yearsthis Government's key economic spokesmen should be so brazen as to proclaim the nonexistence of the recession as though, by declaring it not to exist, they can dismiss the problem. This Alice in Wonderland approach displays an extraordinary contempt for the Australian people. Having just won an election on a campaign replete with untruths and misrepresentations, the Government apparently believes that the Australian people will swallow anything. This time it has gone too far. 
I ask the House to consider the evidence available on the state of the economy and then to assess where the truth resides. The number of registered unemployed has increased by more than 100,000 in the past two years and now stands at more than 7 per cent of the work force. 
The number of wage and salary earners is smaller now than it was 2 years ago. Private enterprise has 53,000 workers fewer than it had 2 years ago. The Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd's index of factory production as at the end of December was at the lowest level for any December since 1971. The latest survey of manufacturing activity from the Department of Industry and Commerce shows that the capacity utilisation level in the December quarter was only 77 per cent, which is far below full utilisation of capacity. In the building industry, the number of new dwellings approved for the year ended December 1977 was 14 per cent down on the previous year, which represents a very substantial decline in a key indicator of the economy. As for new housing commencements, the number of new dwellings commenced in 1977 was 10 per cent below the number in 1976. The National Director of the Housing Industry Association,  Mr Kirkby-  Jones, said that there had been a consistent decline in approvals throughout the year, that there was now little uncommenced work in the pipeline, and that there was very serious under-utilisation of the resources of the housing industry. So there has been no end to the recession in that area. 
In the motor industry total registrations of new motor vehicles have declined in each of the last two years. In the first seven months of 1977-78 registrations are down 6 per cent on the same period of the previous year. However the appalling state of the motor car industry is better displayed by the state of the motor car manufacturing companies. General Motors-Holden's Ltd lost $8.4m last year; Chrysler Australia Ltd lost $27m last year; Nissan Motor Co. (Australia) Pty Ltd is reportedly making losses; Repco Ltd's profit has slumped dramatically in the half year to December; the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd is reputed to be making a loss of up to $ 1 .5m in 1977-78, though that figure has not yet been published. Clearly this very important industry is in a terrible state. Chrysler's  Chairman, Mr Anderson,  described 1 977 as one of the worst years ever experienced by the Australian automotive industry. 
In December 1977 retail sales were 10.5 per cent higher than in December 1976. But as the inflation rate was 9.3 per cent and the population grew by 1.1 per cent, there was in fact no real growth at all in retail sales per head of population. This is a very important point because the Government itself acknowledged in its 1976 Budget that there could be no economic recovery unless there was a recovery in consumer demand. Clearly there has been no recovery in consumer demand on the basis of those retail sales figures. Another important area of the economy is the rural industry. Farm income is estimated to fall from $ 1,844m in 1976-77 to only $ 1,600m in 1977-78. The index of farm income per establishment is estimated to fall from 90 last year to 73 in this financial year. 
Those figures for employment, production and sales are all overwhelming evidence of a sick economy. The only indicators that can give any comfort at all to the Government are the investment statistics and the September quarter national accounts. But on closer examination they provide little reason to conclude that the recession is behind us. The December quarter figures for new capital expenditure by private enterprise show a rise of 6.7 per cent in that quarter and a rise of 14.7 per cent for the year 1977. When one considers that currently there is a very attractive inducement to industry to invest in the form of a 40 per cent investment allowance, which will reduce to 20 per cent after the middle of this year, it is not surprising that investment is high now despite the lack of demand and the very substantial excess capacity to which I have already referred. 
Furthermore, this investment is very largely at the expense of jobs- a fact which the Fraser Government itself has acknowledged in the recent national wage case. When discussing the increase in investment, the Government's advocate,  Mr Marks,  maintained that it had not been associated with increased output or increased employment. In fact he pointed out that employment had declined. He said: 
We say about that that while the incentive afforded by the investment allowance on non-farm plant and equipment has played a role in the pick-up in the investment stated in the past year, the fact is that this investment has been largely channelled into labour-saving devices. 
Thus the Government itself claims that the increase in investment is not creating more jobs; rather it is creating fewer. In those circumstances increased investment figures provide little evidence of recovery from recession. The national accounts for the September quarter have been relied on heavily by the Government as evidence of recovery. In fact they only serve to demonstrate the poor state of the economy. Real gross non-farm product rose by 1 .2 per cent in the September quarter and it was hailed by the Government. But for the whole year to September 1977 it rose by only 1.4 per cent which is a very small rate of growth- barely ahead of the increase in population. There was practically no real growth per head of population in the year to September 1977. Past experience has also shown that it is quite dangerous to place much reliance on the figures of the national accounts for one quarter especially as they are sometimes subject to substantial revision in later quarters. The analysis for the whole year is a much more reliable indicator of the true state of the economy and on that basis the figures for real gross non-farm product offer little cheer. 
Nor are the immediate prospects for improvement very high. In February the Metal Trades Industry Association put a submission to the Crawford study group. On page 2, in the preface to its submission, the association stated: 
MTIA is deeply concerned at the present recessed state of large sectors of manufacturing industry and the consequent high unemployment which now exists. 
So clearly it is concerned about the recession in its area of activity and does not accept the Government's claim that there is in fact no recession. It is interesting to note that whilst the MTIA said that to the Government, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  told the Association at its annual general meeting last Wednesday that there is in fact no recession. The Association could not possibly have believed what he told it at that time. The MTIA went on to stress that the problems of manufacturing industry will continue until effective policies are developed to redress the situation. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited publication  Business Indicators  contains figures on the index of economic activity, which is the only such index published in Australia. The latest publication for February 1978 shows a level for December 1977 which is the lowest for any month since December 1971. These figures show clearly that there is a very substantial recession in Australia. It is ludicrous of the Government to claim otherwise. In discussing the future, the publication stated in its opening remarks that: 
More than three and a half years since the 1973-74 boom in economic activity, the pattern of economic recovery in Australia remains uneven and subdued, with future prospect clouded by potentially incompatible pressures. 
So clearly the ANZ Bank is pessimistic about the future of this country, and rightly so, given all of the developments to this stage. An additional factor which must also be taken into account with regard to the future of the Australian economy is the impact of the turndown in activity in the rest of the world. Our exports of iron ore and coal to Japan will undoubtedly be reduced significantly in both volume and value as that country's steel industry is dramatically reducing its output. Our own steel exports have already been hit by dumping duties imposed by the European Economic Community. A continuance of the world recession will have grave implications for all our export industries and the economy generally. It is imperative that policies that will arrest current trends and promote economic expansion are adopted on an international scale. In this connection the recent comments of the Prime Minister to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting, when he reportedly attacked advocates of expansionary policies and was especially critical of the United States for adopting such policies, are the very opposite to what is in Australia's interest. It is very much in our interest for the rest of the world to recover but our Prime Minister's advice would, if adopted, prevent any such occurrence. That demonstrates just how totally removed from reality this Government has become. 
In summary, it is clear that the Australian economy is very much in recession and is likely to remain so despite the extraordinary claims to the contrary by Government spokesmen. That is not to say that there will not be some increase in total output. Some factors that will promote some slight improvement are operating- but nowhere near enough to prevent unemployment rising further during 1978. The ballooning of the deficit, the action of various States in using reserves to expand public works activity and the recent tax cuts will all assist, but they will be nowhere near enough. The increase in the deficit through reduced receipts and increased expenditure in part reflects the worsening of the economy, with income tax receipts falling below estimate and unemployment benefits rising above budgeted levels because unemployment is higher than was anticipated. Also the deficit increase is in the context of a restricted rate of growth in the money supply which is well below the Budget target rate, and that restricted money supply is stifling the economy. 
The States' use of their reserves is a once only exercise. Once they are used up the States will have to reduce expenditure or increase taxes, either of which will depress the economy. The income tax cuts will increase disposable income and help to raise the overall level of demand but the benefit will be reduced greatly by using only half tax indexation in the middle of this year and by the biased nature of the tax cuts. The fact is that the top 10 per cent of taxpayers will receive 42 per cent of the tax cuts in 1978-79 and 12 per cent of taxpayers- some 650,000 low income earners- will actually pay more tax than if the tax cuts had not been introduced but full tax indexation had been adhered to. The concentration of the tax cut benefit on high income earners is inconsistent with policies to promote recovery because such people have a lower marginal propensity to consume than lower income earners and they also spend a higher proportion of their incomes on imported luxuries and overseas trips, neither of which promotes economic recovery in this country. Total real disposable income, which is a key factor in determining the level of consumer demand, is also being adversely affected by the Government's wages policy. One of the worst aspects of the Government's wages policy is that if it were pursued to the full it would drastically reduce disposable income and thereby greatly inhibit economic recovery. The abandonment of a sustainable wages policy which is implied would also mean, if we reach a stage of economic recovery, that we would be back to the wages scramble that we had in 1974 and all that that implies for economic troubles. 
-The Bill now before the House is a fairly simple Bill in some ways but it raises some important issues. The Bill is an extension of legislation previously introduced by the Labor Government in 1973 when the legal basis of appropriation of funds for statutory authorities established by a territory ordinance was brought into doubt. The legal difficulty related to the fact that territory ordinances are subsidiary to legislation passed by this Parliament and if they were found to be inconsistent in any way with Acts of this Parliament they would clearly be in danger of challenge. In respect of statutory authorities established by territory ordinances this meant that the normal provisions contained in Acts of this Parliament in establishing statutory authorities such as the Australian Shipping Commission, TransAustralia Airlines, the Commonwealth Trading Bank and many others could not be included in territory ordinances establishing statutory authorities. 
Such provisions concern the appropriation of moneys for the purposes of the authority, the availability of loans for the purposes of the authority and its tax status. The inclusion of details such as these in a territory ordinance runs the substantial risk that they could conflict with an Act of this Parliament. Thus, in respect of appropriations, where an Act appropriates money for the purposes of an authority created under a territory ordinance it would appear to be inconsistent with the appropriation to have a provision in an ordinance saying that the moneys are payable only to the authority in such amounts and at such times as the Minister for Finance directs. The legislation passed in 1973 made this provision for all territory authorities. Accordingly, no problem of inconsistency between territory ordinances and Acts of this Parliament could then arise. 
Although the Bill now before the House repeals the 1973 legislation, it incorporates its key provisions and so the point is still covered. Since the 1973 legislation in respect of appropriations was passed similar doubts have arisen in respect of the validity of territory ordinances containing provisions in respect of loans and taxation in relation to statutory authorities. It would probably be inconsistent with an appropriation in an Act of this Parliament providing for funds to be lent to a territory authority for a territory ordinance to provide that the Minister for Finance may determine rates of interest and other terms and conditions of the loan. Thus, the Bill goes beyond the 1973 legislation by providing that for all territory authorities the Minister for Finance may determine the terms and conditions of the loan to a statutory authority of moneys appropriated for the purposes of this Parliament. 
It is not so clear to the Opposition why the Bill authorises the Minister for Finance to guarantee loans from sources other than the territory authority as this would seem to be a matter that could properly be included in a territory ordinance. However, we take no objection to its inclusion in the Bill. We assume it is a matter of convenience to have them together. The Bill also extends into the more controversial area of taxation and here again the legal problem is that if taxes are imposed under Acts of this Parliament and apply to a territory authority it would be inconsistent with the tax Acts for a territory ordinance to provide that they do not apply to a territory authority. Such a provision can be made only by Act of this Parliament and the Bill now before the House accordingly exempts some territory authorities from both Commonwealth and State taxes but renders others liable to Commonwealth income tax and sales tax. In doing so the Bill specifically provides that the Canberra Commercial Development Authority is liable for income tax and sales tax. 
This Authority was established under a Capital Territory ordinance in 1974 to construct a substantial shopping centre in Belconnen in the Australian Capital Territory. Two previous such shopping centres established in the Territory, at Civic and Woden, had been developed by private enterprise. It was the decision of the McMahon Government to establish a statutory authority to develop and manage the centre for Belconnen. The decision to make this and other authorities in the Australian Capital Territory liable for taxation has provoked considerable controversy in the Australian Capital Territory, particularly in the Legislative Assembly which has not been consulted at all about this measure. 
Before considering this aspect further, however, I wish to make some general points about the taxing of statutory authorities. Although there seems to be no hard and fast rule, in general it appears that statutory authorities established by this Parliament are subject to income tax and sales tax when they are engaged in commercial operations in competition with private enterprise. Thus such authorities as TAA, the Australian National Line and the Commonwealth Trading Bank are all subject to tax. We support the fact that they are so liable. It is, in our view, thoroughly appropriate to tax such bodies so that a substantial part of the profits that flow from their commercial operations will flow into consolidated revenue and be available for governments to allocate in accordance with their priorities. In this way a competitive public enterprise can provide substantial benefits to the community, quite apart from its business role. 
There are also important resource allocation reasons for supporting their taxability. If scarce government funds are to be allocated to an essentially commercial enterprise rather than to be used to meet some of the other demands on governments which may be of higher priority, then it is important that these funds be utilised efficiently. Levying tax on such authorities is a way of ensuring that they operate in a fully commercial manner, as they are obliged to earn a higher rate of profits in order to show a given rate of return after tax than they would need to earn to show the same rate of return if tax did not apply. However, in the case now before us, some special factors apply which seem to us to justify a postponement of the decision to render various territory authorities taxable. 
The major reason for postponement is that, with the impending move towards selfgovernment in the Australian Capital Territory, the whole question of the responsibilities that will be transferred to the Territory and the financial arrangements by which the Territory will meet those responsibilities is very much up in the air. Given that the new federalism as practised by this Government in respect of the States seems to be a process of forcing them back much more on their own resources and having more responsibilities returned to them by the Federal Government, there is accordingly substantial concern in the Territory about the terms on which the Territory will become self-governing. In this atmosphere of genuine and realistic concern, there undoubtedly is alarm in the Territory that, by this Bill, the Federal Government will deprive a self-governing Australian Capital Territory of a potential substantial source of revenue by providing for the Canberra Commercial Development Authority in particular to become liable to both income tax and sales tax. 
Surely such a decision did not have to be made at this stage. There is no prospect of the Authority paying any taxes for some years hence as it is yet to make money and will have considerable development expenditure to write off against revenue once it becomes profitable. This is clearly a matter that could have been and should have been left for consideration in the context of the arrangements for self-government of the Territory. Particularly is this so when it is remembered that the Income Tax Act already allows local government bodies undertaking such commercial operations to be free of tax. One such case is at Campbelltown on the outskirts of Sydney where the local council has developed a shopping centre. Under section 23d of the Income Tax Act and section 78 of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classification) Act, it is exempt from all such tax. This has clear relevance to the Canberra Commercial Development Authority because after self-government the Territory will be more or less in between a State and a local government. Certainly it will be carrying out all of the functions that local government carries out elsewhere. If local governments in the States are exempt from tax on such enterprises, then there is clearly at least an arguable case for the same exemption to apply in the case of the Australian Capital Territory. 
It could be claimed, of course, that the Canberra Commercial Development Authority was in a privileged position because it received a no interest loan from the Australian Government to commence operations. That did not apply to the Campbelltown enterprise. On the other hand, under section 19 of the ordinance establishing the Canberra Commercial Development Authority, it is provided that the Authority shall repay the capital in a manner stipulated by the Minister in consultation with the Treasurer and that it shall pay to the Australian Government such proportion of the profits as the Minister, in consultation with the Treasurer, determines. That provision, of course, does not apply to the Glenquarie enterprise in Campbelltown. With the whole matter of the arrangements for selfgovernment now to be decided, surely it would have been better to have discussed this matter as part of the arrangements rather than simply to have imposed it on the Territory without any discussion at all. The concern felt by the Legislative Assembly in Canberra was expressed in a unanimous resolution concerning this legislation which was passed by the Legislative Assembly last night. That resolution states: 
That the Assembly, having considered the implications of the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1978, introduced into the House of Representatives on 23 February 1978 requests the Minister to convey to the Government in the strongest terms its request that consideration of the Bill be deferred until after the Assembly has been fully consulted; 
That the Assembly also requests the Minister to inform the Government that it is of the view that the revenues that the Government proposes to raise through the Bill should be treated as revenues of the Territories in any consideration of Territory finance; 
That as a matter of urgency the Select Committee on Self Government inquire into and report upon the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1978; and 
That this resolution be communicated by messenger to the Minister. 
As I mentioned previously, that resolution was passed unanimously. It is clear from this resolution that the Legislative Assembly, representing various political viewpoints, is very concerned about what this Government is doing in this legislation. In our view, and for the reasons I have expressed, it has substantial reasons for that concern. I therefore move: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not denying the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that provisions relating to taxation of statutory authorities in the Territories should be withheld pending discussions on the financial arrangements for the Territories as they move towards self government '. 
-The opening address by a Governor-General at the beginning of a parliament is an extremely important address in which he sets out the legislative program for the Government for the ensuing parliament. We on this side of the House find that the programs which were spelt out by the Governor-General this year are lamentably short of what is required by the country at this time. I therefore move: 
That the following words be added to the Address: , but note that the Government's legislative program as outlined in the Speech- 
fails to deal adequately with record levels of unemployment; 
2 ) fails to stimulate productive output; 
leaves serious uncertainty about the progress of the Australian economy; 
ignores the serious recession in the international economy; 
fails to provide immediate and long-term guidelines for industry; and 
6 ) neglects to provide firm guarantees for the protection of civil liberties by legislative enactment within the powers of the Australian Government. 
That amendment is moved by me on behalf of the Opposition as being an important matter for the House to debate as it points up the various deficiencies in the legislative program which the Government has put before the Parliament and the people of Australia. Before going into detail on those deficiencies I sketch in some of the background of the previous few years. As all honourable members and all people in Australia are aware, we have been through immense political and economic turmoil over the last five years. Probably there has been no time in our history when there has been such a combination of political and economic turmoil. The political turmoil has been predominantly the responsibility of the people who now form the government of this country. As various speakers from this side of the House have said in the course of this debate, there are many ways in which the Government has debauched the parliamentary process and the processes of democracy. An example is the frequency of elections. We have had four elections in five years, the last three elections being held at the behest of the LiberalNational Country Parties. All those elections were held well before time. 
We have had various breaches of convention which I will not go into. They have been spelt out by speakers from this side of the House. We have had developed to an acute art form the electoral campaign of misrepresentation. All of these factors amount to immense debauchery of democracy. We say to members of the Liberal and National Country Parties that if they wish to continue in this sort of fashion they will be causing immense damage to democracy in this country. They cannot defend democracy by debauching it. If they undertake this sort of behaviour, if they breach all the conventions and if they tear up the normal principles of democratic behaviour, they destroy the democractic process. They do not save it by those actions. We say to them that they are responsible for the immense political turmoil which has beset this country over the last few years. 
Underlying that political turmoil has been economic turmoil. It has been the economic turmoil which has been the rationalisation for the political turmoil which has been created by the Government parties. I am sure all honourable members are well acquainted with the economic turmoil. We know we have had a great upsurge in inflation, a big increase in unemployment and much lower rates of economic growth than we are used to. In fact, there was almost no growth at one stage. So all this has been a tremendous turn around in the economic situation in this country. This has provided the rationalisation for the behaviour of the Liberal-National Country Parties. In 1974, when they blocked Supply, they used inflation as the reason for taking that unprecedented action. The so-called reprehensible circumstances which the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  used to justify his actions in 1971 were principally the state of the economy. So this economic turmoil has been fundamental to what has happened in this country over the last four or five years, not just in an economic sense but in a political sense. 
But was it really the fault of the then governing party, the Australian Labor Party, in 1973 to 1975 that this economic turmoil occurred? Undoubtedly the Australian people have been persuaded to believe that it was. The overwhelming majorities of the Government parties in the last two general elections bear testimony to that fact. But I say to Government supporters and to the people of Australia that they should ponder whether the then governing party, the Australian Labor Party, was in fact responsible for the economic turmoil that occurred. I think that only now is it beginning to be perceived by the people of this country just how widespread that economic turmoil was and how much a fundamental part it was at that time of the Western capitalist world. This fact has probably been put most effectively by a very respectable source,  Dr Witteveen,  the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund. I quote in part from a speech entitled 'Financial Stability in the World Economy' delivered by  Dr Witteveen  to the Conference Board in New York on 15 February 1978.  Dr Witteveen  said: 
You will recall that, just a few years ago, the world economy was struck by a series of major disturbances: a virulent and widespread inflation, a severe and prolonged recession, and a massive disequilibrium in international payments. 
I draw particular attention to the next sentence: 
Unquestionably, the situation that developed during the period 1973-75 constituted the most serious and complex set of economic problems to confront national governments and the international community since the end of World War II. 
What  Dr Witteveen  is saying there is that the period 1973 to 1975, when the Labor Party happened to gain office after some 23 years out of office, was the period which coincided with a tremendous upheaval in the international economy, the like of which had not been seen in the postwar period. But has there been any acknowledgment of that fact from Government supporters? Of course there has not been. In two general elections they have perpetrated the absolute lie to the Australian people that inflation and unemployment were the fault of the Whitlam Government. As this speech shows, that is a gross distortion of the truth.  Dr Witteveen  continues: 
The precipitous rise of foreign trade prices made it much more difficult to control inflation and maintain economic stability. 
Of course it did. During 1973 an increase in the price of our exportable quantities accounted for 40 per cent of the then inflation rate. There was a tremendous upsurge in import prices later. In fact,  Dr Witteveen  says later in his speech that world trade prices increased by 20 per cent in 1973-74 over prices in 1972-73 and by 40 per cent in the following year. In Australia, the increase in the price of our imports was almost exactly that figure. The import price index in Australia in 1974-75 increased by 43 per cent. In the previous year it had increased by 1 6 per cent. No government could have taken any action to offset that situation, other than that taken by this Government and that is revaluation. Those sorts of factors are tremendously important in assessing whether there were any reprehensible circumstances which would justify the kinds of debaucheries of democracy undertaken by the Liberal and National Country Parties over the last few years. 
Why did all this happen? Why was there this economic chaos around the world?  Dr Witteveen  lists the causes. Firstly, there was a simultaneous boom in industrial countries in 1972-73, fuelled by an overly expansive fiscal and monetary policy. I remind honourable members that in the last half of 1972, the money supply was increasing at an annual rate of 34 per cent. I repeat: A 34 per cent annual rate of increase in that half year period- predominantly a period in which the McMahon Government was supposedly running this country. Secondly,  Dr Witteveen  lists the upsurge in primary commodity prices because of shortages, anticipatory buying to beat inflation and currency uncertainties. Thirdly, he lists the escalation of oil prices at the beginning of 1974. These factors were the reasons for the tremendous economic chaos that occurred. 
It is absurd to suggest that the Whitlam Government was basically to blame. Even if one did say: 'Well, all right, there was this economic chaos around the world, but was it really the fault of the Whitlam Government? If it was not the fault of the Whitlam Government then maybe its performance relative to the performances of other countries was not so good '. But, in fact, that is not the case either. If we look at the growth of the GDP in Australia in 1975 we see that it was 1.5 per cent. For the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the Western capitalist developed countries, it was minus 1 per cent, so we did much better than the rest of the comparable world. Compare that with the last 12 months. The growth in Australia for the year to September 1977 was 2.7 per cent compared to 3.5 per cent in the rest of the OECD world. So there has been a transformation: Australia did better under the Whitlam Government, worse under the Fraser Government. 
The same may be said of unemployment. In 1975, when the Labor Party was in office, the unemployment rate rose to 4.4 per cent. The OECD average was then 5.4 per cent. What is it now? The latest comparable figures are those for August 1977. They show that already Australia has surged past the OECD average. The figure for Australia was 5.7 per cent and that for the OECD was 5.5 per cent. Admittedly, the inflation rate has come down closer to the OECD average. In 1 975 it was 3 per cent above it, and now it is only 1 per cent above. But if we look at the overall comparative performance, the Labor Government's performance in running this country in immensely difficult economic times was quite commendable; it was nothing to be ashamed about. It was a period in which we were under tremendous difficulty, and that has simply got to be acknowledged by the people of Australia if they have any sense of fair play, which I am sure they have. 
Turning to the economic policies of the present Government, it is important to look at the keynote aspect of economic policy which dominates the rest of government policy in the country at this time. The Governor-General's Speech reads: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. It will continue to give the highest priority to reducing inflation, for only in this way can there be a sustained reduction in unemployment. 
That quotation is at the heart and soul of present economic policy. It determines economic policy in respect of the deficit, in respect of wages, in respect of the money supply, all of which are having an immensely contractionary effect upon economic policy generally in this country. The passage I have just quoted is an enormous distortion of the truth. It says that the inflation-first policy does not involve a choice between that aim and the aim of reducing unemploymentbecause a reduction in the level of unemployment on a sustainable, long-term basis can be achieved only by reducing the inflation rate. We say that that is an absurd statement, that it is patently false, that it conflicts with general world opinion and that it conflicts with much industry opinion in this country. 
Let me go through these various aspects. It is incontrovertibly clear that the policies of the Fraser Government have produced some decline in the inflation rate, but this has been at the cost of a massive increase in the level of unemployment. In other words, there has been this massive trade-off. It is of no use asserting that there is no trade-off when, in fact, all the evidence is that there has been a massive increase in the level of unemployment. It has increased by over 100,000 in the last two years, the two years during which the Fraser Government has been in office. During that period there has been an actual decrease of 8000 in the number of wage and salary earners in jobs. In private enterprise the figure is down by 65,000. Is this no trade-off? 
Thirdly, there has been the Government's refusal to fund job creation programs- a deliberate refusal to take action to offset unemployment- because it is said to be inflationary. Is that not the essence of a trade-off? The Government also refuses to make funds available to the States for capital works to reduce the level of unemployment because that would increase the deficit and therefore, in the Government's view, be inflationary. All this shows that it is totally untrue to say, as the Governor-General did on behalf of the Government, that there is no trade-off, that the Government rejects the trade-off. The Government's whole economic policy is based on the concept of a trade-off and it is incredible that it has the absolute gall to try to say otherwise to the Australian people. It is a wonder the Governor-General did not choke on the words when he uttered them. 
As I mentioned previously, this economic policy, which is based on an increase in the level of unemployment for the purpose of reducing the rate of inflation, conflicts with international economic opinion. All the respectable economic opinion in the Western world, and I put 'respectable' in inverted commas- the sort of respectability which I expect honourable members opposite to accept- now says that the economic policies being pursued by this Government are wrongly based. It is about time this Government faced up to that. 
During most of last year there was much talk in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and elsewhere of the need for the co-called locomotive economies- that is, the major economies: The United States, West Germany and Japan- to reflate their economies and to increase their imports from the rest of the world in order to bring about a general economic recovery in the Western world. But that is now seen to be an insufficient basis for recovery because, firstly, of the refusal of West Germany and Japan to reflate in a concerted way and, secondly, the realisation that the rest of the world must do something to reactivate its own economies because of the frighteningly high levels of unemployment. So now calls are being made from various quarters in the international economic arena for a more expansionary policy to be adopted by all of the industrial economies so that economic recovery will be generated without simply relying on the locomotive economies. 
There are 16 million people unemployed in the OECD countries at the moment. That figure is increasing and it will continue to increase unless there is some dramatic change of economic policies on the part of countries such as this one which are continuing to generate more and more unemployment. The first major call for more expansionary policies in other countries was made by the prestigous Brookings Institute in the United States. That Institute each year gathers together respectable economists from the various OECD countries- Japan, Western Europe and North America- to produce a review of the domestic economic policies in industrial countries. I shall read to the House a brief extract from its review of November last year: 
The developments reviewed thus far point to the need for greater stimulation of  denamd  in most industrial countries. 
So, the Institute is calling for more stimulatory policies. It went on to say: 
Concern about inflation continues to be warranted, but nowhere among the industrial countries can inflation now be attributed to excess demand. The intention of these proposals is to bring about higher real growth rates and at the same time provide for further reductions in inflation. 
In other words, it is asking for a simultaneous attack on inflation and unemployment; not an attack on inflation first, which is the policy this Government is pursuing. It is asking for a simultaneous attack, as the Opposition has argued for the last two years. The Government cannot just close its eyes to growing unemployment and say: 'We are getting inflation down; therefore everything is all right'. The Government should take notice of what the Brookings Institute is saying to it and to other governments. The OECD, in the December issue of its publication  Economic Outlook  said much the same sort of thing: 
A weakening of the present fiscal support to demand would be one important factor likely to contribute to the slowdown. 
In other words, it is saying that cuts in government expenditure will create a worsening of the economic recession. But the Government is pursuing a policy of cutting government expenditure. The OECD publication went on to say: 
This would leave OECD unemployment at the end of 1 978 even higher than now, amounting perhaps to some 1 7 million, or over  5 1/2  per cent of the labour force . .  Weak output trends might not bring much further benefits in the shape of lower inflation. 
So the OECD is saying that unless policies change unemployment will increase and the level of inflation will not be reduced. Those are the sorts of messages which the OECD is sending to its constitutent members, including Australia. But is the Australian Government listening? If it is, it is showing absolutely no evidence of doing so. In its publication  Economic Outlook  the OECD goes on to say under the head 'Policy Considerations': 
To achieve the sort of growth path that leads, during 1978, to falling unemployment will imply a considerable acceleration between the two halves of the year. 
Further on it states: 
The need for further policy action to buoy up demand, over and above that already taken, if the gap between forecast growth and national objectives is to bridged, seems clear enough. 
So, here we have a concerted call for more expansionary policies falling on absolutely deaf ears in this country, as the Governor-General's Speech shows. I do not have time to read to the House the other passage from the OECD report which I intended to read, but I refer it to honourable members. It appears on page 10 of the December issue of  Economic Outlook.  On that page the OECD calls for increased deficits. It says that it is the role of governments now to start to educate people of the need for higher deficits. Just cop that! Has the Prime Minister read this sort of document? I do not think he could have done so, because evidence of such a reading certainly does not show in his economic policy. 
The OECD is saying that governments should be more expansionary in their policies and that, in the process of doing so, deficits need to be increased. It is saying that governments should then be persuading the people of the need for higher deficits. This Government is doing the absolute opposite. It is doing its best to get the deficit down and at the same time it is telling the people, as it has done for the last two or three years, that high deficits are inflationary and therefore terrible. In fact, as the OECD says, high deficits are not necessarily inflationary at all. The OECD is asking countries such as this one to adopt more expansionary policies to reduce unemployment. It all gets down to a matter of priorities. 
The overwhelming view of the OECD, the Brookings Institute and the International Monetary Fund is that there is a need for more expansionary policies because the unemployment problem is serious and just cannot be ignored. The same is being said right here in Australia by employer organisations. George Polites, the Industrial Director of the Confederation of Australian Industry, is calling for more attention to be paid by the Government to unemployment. Calls from the Metal Trades Industries Association of Australia, the Housing Industry Association and the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd for more expansionary policies are among a whole stream of calls of that nature from what one would think would be from the point of view of honourable members opposite highly respectable circles, but this Government goes on blindly with its policy of attacking inflation first. In so doing it is sending this country further and further into recession, creating longer and longer dole queues and driving this country into a state which will be anything but the envy of the rest of the world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) What was the percentage increase in the gross operating surplus of companies in the 12 months to September 1977. 
Is this a real increase or a real decrease. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Despite the Budget target rate of growth for the money supply of 8 per cent to 10 per cent, its annual rate of increase has been only 5 per cent in the past year and a mere 4 per cent in the last three months. I ask: As we are now entering the period of seasonal money tightness, does this low rate of money supply growth mean that the Budget target rate of growth has been abandoned? Will the Treasurer inform the House whether this tight money policy has resulted from the Government's desire to minimise the capacity of corporations to speculate against the Australian dollar? If not, what is the reason for the policy? Does he concede that the continuance of such a low rate of growth would be in direct conflict with the Government's stated policy aim of reducing interest rates by two per cent across the board in 1978? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) Is inflation conventionally described in terms of price increases over a 12-month period. 
In which 12-month period while the Labor Government was in office did either the Consumer Price Index or the implicit deflator for consumption expenditure increase by 1 9 per cent. 
-The Bill now before the House provides a very extensive array of amendments to existing legislation concerning superannuation for Commonwealth Government employees. The amendments are quite technical, for the most part thoroughly non-controversial, and accordingly the Opposition does not oppose them. Indeed, the legislation is so complex and of so little interest to all except superannuation specialists that it would be tedious and quite wasteful of the time of the House to discuss the Bill in detail. There are, however, a couple of matters that the Opposition wishes' to raise before giving its consent to the legislation. The principal reason for the legislation is to plug the gaps and iron out the anomalies that were perceived in the new Commonwealth superannuation scheme first put forward by the Labor Government in 1975 but not passed until 1976, and then only in a rather watered-down form. The introduction of the new scheme had become a matter of real importance as the old scheme had reached the point of absurdity, with some contributors paying as much as 40 per cent of their salary each week into the fund. The new scheme removed that possibility and basically provided for superannuation contributions of 5 per cent of salary, with pension and/or lump sum benefits on death or retirement. 
The legislation now before us is confined very much to tidying up both the new scheme and the application of the new principles to the old scheme. There are precious few improvements from the point of view of contributors or pensioners. Indeed, there are only three of any note. One concerns the extension of the permissible period for election as to the form of benefit that the employee or dependant desires to take. The extension of the period in which to make this important decision from one month to three months is commendable and should make it less likely that people will make their election without having considered thoroughly which option is most suitable to their particular circumstances. In respect of such elections, the Bill provides for the possibility of the cancellation of an election if the Commissioner deems it appropriate so to do. Such a provision certainly represents an improvement because a contributor or dependant could make an election on wrong advice, and to provide that he must simply put up with a decision reached in such circumstances for the rest of his days, as the current legislation does, is harsh indeed. 
The Bill changes that, but it is decidedly vague as to what criteria the Commissioner shall take into account in deciding whether to cancel an election. The Bill simply provides that the Commissioner take account of such matters as are prescribed by regulation, if any, and any other matter he deems relevant. The Bill could hardly be less specific. This is not a trivial point because many people may feel that the example quoted in the second reading speech of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  that is, where all relevant information was not available at the time of the election, may well apply to them. The Opposition would like to know whether any regulations are to be prescribed in respect of this matter and, if so, what they are to be. If the Government is still thinking about this aspect, as seems to be the case, we would urge it not to be too restrictive in determining grounds for obtaining cancellation and, in particular, to provide as a broad ground for cancellation the nonavailability of all relevant information. The only other notable improvement concerns the case where a contributor or pensioner dies and leaves more than one spouse, such as where a married male contributor lives in a de facto relationship with another woman. The new scheme gave recognition to de facto spouses and the amending legislation now before the House enables each surviving spouse to choose between pension and lump sum in the same way as other spouses in respect of their share of available benefits. 
Other than those three minor but worthwhile improvements, the Bill consists mainly of machinery type amendments clarifying the 1976 legislation, correcting drafting errors in it and eliminating anomalies that have arisen. There are two other changes about which I wish to comment, however, and they concern the matter of taxation exemption for the Fund and the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust and the charging of certain management costs to the Superannuation Fund. The Bill gives the Government power to provide by regulation that the Trust and the Fund may become liable to taxation. Judging from the Minister's second reading speech, the Government is likely to remove at least some of the current exemptions. 
We find it difficult to believe that the Government has not already given this matter substantial consideration and that it has in mind providing for the removal of some tax exemptions such as stamp duty, perhaps. In any event, we do not believe that the Government should conduct such procedures by stealth. If any action is taken in this regard an announcement should be made by the Minister, either in this House or publicly outside it, stating what is being done and why, rather than simply prescribing the regulation and giving it no publicity other than the formal gazettal required. 
The amendment providing for certain costs of management to be charged against the Fund is subject to a similar criticism. Here again, the amendment simply provides for regulations to prescribe that some costs can be charged against the Fund. Surely the Government has thought about this to the point where it knows what costs it wants to charge against the Fund and Trust and why. Yet we received no enlightment in the Minister's speech; no explanation as to why the legislation is being changed. If it is to be provided that costs such as sharebrokers' costs, mortgage preparation charges, estate agents' fees and the like are to be charged against the Fund, then the amendment would not seem unreasonable, but if all the costs of running the scheme were to be charged against it the impact on the Fund could be quite substantial. The Opposition considers that, during this debate, the Government should clarify its intentions in respect of these two matters of taxation and the allocation of costs. It shows contempt of the Parliament for the Government not to provide it with information as to why it is seeking certain powers when it is asking for Parliament's approval for those powers. 
One other matter of superannuation policy which is not covered strictly by this legislation but which impinges on it concerns contributors to the old scheme now transferred to the new scheme. The division of their total allocation as between basic and supplementary contributions has become a matter of some contention because contributors will have the option of taking the supplementary amount in cash when the distribution is completed later this year. The Government set up a committee to advise it on this and other related matters and the committee's report, known as the report of the Committee of Five, recommended by a three to two majority that a method of division be adopted that would provide a supplementary contribution and therefore the right to some cash refund to almost every contributor. The alternative method advocated by the minority, both of whom were actuaries, would have provided a supplementary contribution to only 30 per cent of the contributors and that 30 per cent would have tended to be the longest serving section of the Public Service, many of whom paid high proportions of their incomes into the Superannuation Fund before the new scheme was introduced. 
Not unnaturally, some of those contributors now feel that they should receive the best end of the deal and are plugging for the Government to reverse its acceptance of the majority report so that their cash refunds will be larger. However, the reality is that the peak organisation representing Australian Government employees, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations, supports the majority report, as does the Superannuated Officers Association, although that is a very small organisation. The key point in all of this is that, whichever method is adopted, the total allocation to each individual contributor is not affected, and that may not be understood by some contributors, who believe that their past contributions are to be used to provide the supplementary contribution and hence cash refunds for other younger officers. 
These matters are very complex and confusion can easily arise. I believe that the Government would do a great service to all contributors if it took the trouble to explain more fully to them what it is doing and what their rights are. As things stand, the Government seems to be doing its best to be secretive, thereby causing great anxiety to many public servants nearing retirement. Finally, I request the Government to assist in the understanding of this whole subject by reprinting the 1976 Act, as amended, as quickly as possible or at least to have the Commissioner for Superannuation issue a consolidation in the near future. This is decidedly difficult legislation to follow, especially now that it is being amended considerably by this Bill. Without a comprehensive publication of the Act, as amended in one form or another, those people who are interested and involved in this area will have a difficult task in determining just what it is that the Parliament has decided. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) Will the report on manpower planning submitted by a working party of Commonwealth and State officers which was presented to the meeting of Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers on 24 February 1 978 be published. 
What provision for manpower planning exists within his Department at the present time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
What was the source of his statement, made at the National Press Club on 7 December 1977, that in our time total employment has risen by 1 80,000. 
I second the motion because the allegations made by the sacked Government Deputy Whip - 
Question ( by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Gellibrand be not further heard. 
-I wish to raise with you,  Mr Speaker,  a report in yesterday's Hansard which in my submission, incorrectly records the proceedings of the House. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer and concerns his statement in the House earlier this year that:   . . the Government rejects the notion that the Australian economy is in any kind of recession. 
I refer also to the Treasurer's more recent statement made at the  Financial Review  luncheon that: 
. our basic economic performance is steadily improving. 
Does the Treasurer still adhere to those statements, despite the recent release of statistics showing almost half a million people unemployed and a decline in real gross non-farm product by 1.3 per cent in the December quarter and by 0.6 per cent in the first six months of this financial year? In view of these disastrous statistics and his own admission that the Budget deficit will be several hundred million dollars above its budgeted level, does the Treasurer agree with the claim by the Minister for Finance yesterday that the Budget estimates will be largely on target for this financial year? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) On what basis are Australia 's reserves of gold now valued. 
What has been the value of Australia's gold reserves at the time of the monthly Reserve Bank statement of Australia's reserves, since the basis of valuation was changed. 
-The Opposition raises this matter today because we have had from the Government in general and its economic spokesman in particular, the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  a rather confusing array of statements about budgetary policy, both in respect of particular aspects of budgetary policy and the overall intention of budgetary policy. If there is one aspect of policy with which the Government has been completely identified until recent times it has been that Budget deficits are undesirable and should be eradicated. The House will recall that when in Opposition the Liberal and National Country Parties never let up criticising the then Government for the level of the Budget deficit. We were constantly told that such deficits measured the extent to which the country was living beyond its means. Comparisons were made to major business which would be bankrupted by such supposedly profligate financial dealings. The need to reduce the deficit was said to be imperative. Now, the situation seems to be changing. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has already admitted that the deficit this year will be several hundred million dollars above the Budget estimate of $2.2 billion, whereas the Minister for Finance seems confused about the issue. 
On 17 January the Treasurer and the Minister for Finance released a Press statement in which they admitted that the deficit was likely to be greater than that budgeted for. They set out some reasons as to why this was so. The Minister for Finance, however, appeared to contradict that statement in his reply to the question from the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  on 6 April. On page 1 1 14 of  Hansard  he said: 
Despite the fact that there have been changes in the pattern in some quarters, it is nevertheless expected that the estimates stated by the previous Treasurer in the last Budget will be largely on target this financial year . . . 
The Minister for Finance said that the Budget estimates are likely to be pretty much on target this financial year. By the same token, there were Press statements by the Treasurer and the Minister for Finance on 17 January and 28 March which both stated that the Budget deficit would be substantially overshot this year. What is the real situation? One of the key economic spokesmen for the Government said in the House that the Budget estimates will be pretty much on target and the Treasurer and the Minister for Finance said in Press statements that the Budget estimates will be substantially over target. We want to know what is the situation. Does the Government not know what is the situation in respect of the deficit? If it does know, why does it say different things at different times? Does the Minister for Finance believe that the Budget deficit is on target? We want to know. I see that he is not even in the House to reply in this debate. I presume that the Treasurer will do so. I think it is shameful that the Minister for Finance, who is specifically named in relation to this matter of public importance, has not thought fit to come into this chamber and reply to the statements we have to make in this debate. We want to know to which statement the Government adheres. 
As we see it, the deficit will substantially overshoot the budgeted level. The Budget deficit, as pronounced last year, was $2.2 billion. That figure of $2.2 billion is looking rather sick at the moment. The Budget deficit for the first nine months of this financial year is $5.3 billion. That figure is a substantial increase on the figure of $2.2 billion. Of course, there will be a substantial run-down in that higher figure in the next three months. The receipt of two quarterly payments of company tax and other factors will mean that that figure will be substantially reduced. Nevertheless, it is running well above the level for this time last year. For the first nine months of the 1976-77 financial year the Budget deficit was exactly $5 billion. It is now $5.3 billion. 
In making those comparisons, we have to pay regard to the fact that quarterly payments of company tax were suspended in 1976-77, whereas this year there have been two payments of company tax. The situation for the next three months of this financial year will be different to that of last year. At this time last year, that is, after nine months of the year had gone by, most of the company tax payments had still to come. In the present situation half the company tax payments have been made and the Budget deficit is still $300m above the figure for the same period last year. In our opinion, the deficit will be very much higher than that which has been budgeted for. 
Apart from the fact that there is this substantial excess which understates the actual situation, we also need to have regard to the reasons which have been given by the Treasurer and the Minister for Finance for the deficit increase. We have been told by them that the main reasons are the shortfall in customs duties paid and the shortfall in income tax receipts on a pay-as-you-earn basis because of the different refund system. In our opinion, those two statements do not explain the real reason for the blowing out of the deficit to the degree to which it is likely to occur. There are other factors which the Ministers have not mentioned and which are very relevant. They arise principally from the fact that the economy is in substantial recession, despite the fact that the Treasurer continually states that we do not have a recession, much to the astonishment, I should think, of 99.99 per cent of the population. Nevertheless, that is his continual claim. The fact is that the economy is in a very depressed situation. We have high levels of unemployment, low levels of capacity utilisation and low levels of economic activity. They all mean reduced levels of income tax revenue. They also mean higher levels of expenditure. 
In addition, company tax payments will be very much lower than the estimate. The company tax which has been paid for two quarters is only 42 per cent of the Budget estimate of $2.9 billion for company tax receipts. It looks as though company tax payments will be nowhere near the Budget estimate. That stems from the fact that the level of activity is so low that company profits are likely to be less than was estimated. Similarly, the fall that has actually occurred in employment opportunities during this financial year must result in a fall in income tax. As fewer people are in work they will be paying less income tax and, therefore, income tax receipts will be substantially lower. But payments this year are $ 1,245m higher than they were at the same time last year. This is an interesting point. The Government has stated that it is cutting income tax. In fact, income tax payments are 20 per cent higher than they were last year but they are still well below what is necessary to maintain the Budget estimate. Clearly, a substantial increase in personal income tax revenue was estimated. It will not be obtained in this Budget 
Expenditure on unemployment benefit will be substantially higher as a result of increased unemployment. The Budget estimates on employment simply will not be borne out. The 
Government estimated that there would be some reduction in the level of unemployment during this financial year. In the first nine months of this year unemployment benefit payments have cost $5 79m against the Budget estimate for the whole year of $640m. On our estimates this means that the total expenditure on unemployment benefits will be approximately $160m more than was estimated in the Budget. As I have said, this stems from the fact that there is a much higher level of unemployment. It is absurd for the Minister for Finance to say, as he said in this House the other day, that employment had increased. It has not increased. The figures in the labour force survey for the total employed work force show that between May and February there was a reduction in the work force of 100,000 people. The total number of persons employed as wage and salary earners between the end of June 1977 and the end of February 1978 was reduced by 22,000 people. Whatever figure one uses, there has been an actual decline in the level of employment. That has a very substantial impact on the Budget deficit through reduced income tax receipts and higher unemployment benefit payments. There is no way that the Government can get out of that. 
The Minister for Finance now says that the deficit does not matter so much. The Treasurer says the same thing. They say that the funding is in hand and that they can finance the deficit. They say that higher Budget deficits do not matter much. They say that because they have the funding in hand everything will be all right. That is not a situation with which we disagree. We have said all along that a high Budget deficit is not necessarily bad as long as the funding arrangements are right. But we do say that it is extraordinarily hypocritical of the Government to claim now that high Budget deficits are not too bad so long as they can be funded. The Government said time after time when it was in opposition that a high Budget deficit was ipso facto a bad thing. It gave no concession whatever for the fact that the reason for the blowing out of the deficit in the latter part of 1975 was that the Government at that time had reduced the rate of increase in wages through the wage indexation process, which reduced income tax receipts. It paid no regard to that. It simply played on the fears of the Australian people. It said, 'Look at the spiralling deficit. Is it not a terrible thing?' It made people feel that the country was heading for financial ruin. Now that it is in power, with the Budget deficit blowing out- it will be several hundred million dollars higher than the $2.2 billion estimated; higher than in the previous year- the Government says that it does not matter; everything is OK; it has the funding in hand. We say that the Government is being thoroughly hypocritical. 
Having looked at the total area of the Budget I want to mention a few aspects which relate specifically to statements made by the Minister for Finance on specific matters of Government budgetary policy. The House will recall that it was the Minister for Finance who said on 26 February 1977: 
The unemployment figures are largely a myth. 
I suppose it is not surprising that a man who can make that sort of statement when there were such high levels of unemployment should make various other mistakes in respect of employment. Only the other day in this House he said, as I have already mentioned, that employment had increased during this financial year. I have already shown that it has very substantially decreased, whichever figures one uses. 
Similarly, in respect of the building industry, the Minister for Finance said on 7 April, in answer to a question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  that the building industry had been over-expanded in 1976. We find this a quite remarkable statement. Here we have one of the key economic spokesmen for this Government saying in this House only a few days ago that the building industry in 1976 was overexpanded. I think that is absolutely incredible because at that time we find that the building industry was in fact severely recessed. I am sure that all members of this House must realise that the building industry has been very sick for quite a number of years. It is not likely to get any better while the policies of this Government are pursued. The fact is that in 1976 the building industry was severely depressed. In February of this year the number of private building approvals was at a level below that for the previous two years. In 1976 the level was higher than the level for 1975 but below the levels of 1974 and 1973 and only slightly above the level of 1972. In other words, the level of activity in the building industry in 1976 was well below the levels of 1973 and 1974. In fact, since mid 1975 there has been a substantial decline in employment in the building industry. It has gone down by 60,000 in that time- a decline of 1 5 per cent. If one looks at the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the housing industry it is clear that although the market was depressed there was an underlying need for a much greater level of activity than was able to be achieved in 1976. 1 can only refer very quickly to that report. 
Similarly, capital outlays by this Government have declined very substantially in the last two years. They are down 1 7. 1 per cent in the July to December period of the 1977-78 financial year compared with the previous year. In that year they were down 7.7 per cent compared with the year before. Yet this Government, through the Minister for Finance, says that that does not have any impact on the level of economic activity. We in the Opposition have made it quite clear that cuts in capital expenditure of this kind affect the building industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable members time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What were the budgeted deficits in each of the 3 Budgets brought down by the Labor Government. 
What were the actual deficits at the end of each of the 3 financial years in which the Labor Government was responsible for producing the Budget. 
3 ) Did the Labor Government actually budget for or produce a Budget which resulted in a deficit of $4.5 billion. 
-The Cooperative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1978 which is now before the House provides a loan guarantee for the substantial sum of $4.Sm to assist Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd, which is a meat processing cooperative operating in Victoria and registered as a co-operative under the Victorian Co-operatives Act. The sum of $4.5m is half of the total loan of $9m which is being obtained by the co-operative to pay off its creditors who are owed $14m. The co-operative apparently has reserves of $5m odd, which  is  sufficient to make up the balance. The other half of the $9m not guaranteed by the Commonwealth is being guaranteed by the Victorian Government. The two governments are undertaking this action at the request of the directors of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Society which wishes to prevent the receiver from selling the business, which he has almost succeeded in doing. Indeed, the receiver has called for tenders and has accepted an offer by Protean (Holdings) Ltd which tendered $ 10.25m, an amount sufficient with current reserves to pay off creditors and to pay shareholders 60c in the dollar. The receiver's acceptance of that tender is now being challenged in the Supreme Court of Victoria by the directors of the society. The loan guarantees being provided by the Victorian and Australian governments are an integral pan of that challenge. 
The second reading speech delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was quite a bland statement which made the legislation seem very run of the mill. He told the Parliament little of the background to this matter. We believe that the Parliament should be made aware of the rather turbulent history of this co-operative society and of other relevant matters before voting on the legislation. So I intend to provide that information. It is, in fact, a story of a brave and visionary attempt by some 10,000 Victorian farmers to break the dominance of big, mainly multinational, meat processing companies by providing their own meat processing facilities. It is also a story of bandits, one armed with a gun and one armed with a ballpoint pen- the latter being by far the most venturesome. It is a story of trading difficulties, of apparent commercial naivete by a federal authority, of a curious lack of interest by the Victorian Government in a major scandal, and of substantial optimism by the current Federal and Victorian governments. 
The society was formed in 1959 by some 10,000 Victorian farmers. It gradually extended its activities to the point where it became a sizable meatworks operating in the export and local markets. However, by 1968 it had run into trouble and was placed in receivership by its major creditor, the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd. Within a few months an arrangement was agreed to whereby a  Mr Leslie  Phillip Smart of the accounting firm of Marquand and Co. in Melbourne was appointed as administrator. The society then seemed to recover from its difficulties. By June 1970 it was trading profitably. By 1973 its profit reached $lm, and in 1974 it paid its first dividend for a long time. In that year also the co-operative emerged from receivership and the administrator,  Mr Smart,  who was aptly named, became managing director. 
At the same time the society sought to expand its operations by buying the Bendigo and Ballarat abattoirs which belong to the Victorian Inland Meat Authority, a statutory authority established by the Victorian Government. But in order to purchase those abattoirs and to expand operations at its existing Brooklyn plant in West Melbourne the society had to borrow money. It obtained that money- some $6.4m- from the 
Australian Industry Development Corporation. However, in loaning that money, the AIDC set down various conditions to be accepted by the society. In accepting those conditions the society made a tragic mistake. The conditions insisted on by the AIDC were intended to ensure the financial viability of the enterprise, but they had quite the opposite result. 
The AIDC insisted, firstly, that the society be taken out of receivership; secondly, that  Mr Smart  be made managing director; and thirdly, that its rules be changed to enable the AIDC to appoint four of its seven directors. The idea of those conditions was thus to ensure that  Mr Smart  was left very much in control, as clearly the AIDC did not trust the board of directors adequately to manage the enterprise. As  Mr Smart  as administrator had brought the society out of receivership into an apparently profitable position the AIDC strongly believed that the best thing that could happen for the society was that he be left in charge. To ensure that the directors did not cause him too much bother, provision was made for the AIDC to appoint four of the seven directors. AIDC insisted that the rules of the organisation be changed to enable that provision to be introduced. If any of the seven directors then looked like interfering too much  Mr Smart  would be able to threaten them with displacement by AIDC nominees. In fact, the AIDC did not appoint any directors, more is the pity, for if it had it may have found out what was going on. Instead it effectively deprived the board of powers of control over  Mr Smart  who was appointed  chairman  of directors as well as managing director. He was effectively in sole control of the enterprise. By insisting on that arrangement the AIDC ensured the eventual financial relapse of the enterprise, because what it had done was to give sole control to a man who, it appears, had already embezzled almost $lm from the society's funds and who fully intended to embezzle some more. 
Between 16 November 1971 and 28 June 1974 when he became  chairman  of directors with virtual sole control,  Mr Smart  had made 10 payments in varying amounts to his accounting firm, Marquand and Co., which in total siphoned off $525,000 from the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Society. In the same period he had paid out $335,000 in four payments to a firm known as Lanifer Nominees Pty Ltd, a nominee company appointed by Marquand and Co. of which he and other members of the Marquand firm were also directors. 
Four other such payments totalling $132,000 had also been made to  Mr D.  G. Langlands, an associate of  Mr Smart,  and to two other companies prior to 28 June 1 974, making a total of $932,000 which had been paid out of the society's funds, without the knowledge or the authorisation of the directors, before  Mr Smart  became managing director at the insistence of the AIDC for reasons which were well based. 
-In respect of what? 
I wish to move two amendments to clause 5 which reads: 
For the purpose of the protection of the financial interests of the Commonwealth, the Treasurer shall not give a guarantee under section 4 in relation to a borrowing of moneys by the Society unless- 
a like guarantee is given by the Treasurer of the State of Victoria on behalf of that State in respect of the repayment by the Society of one-half of the principal moneys in relation to the same borrowing; 
the moneys are borrowed for a period not exceeding 3 years and on such other terms and conditions as the Treasurer is satisfied are reasonable; 
undertakings to the satisfaction of the Treasurer are given that, so long as the amount borrowed remains unpaid, officers of the Australian Public Service will have full access at all reasonable times to the financial accounts of the Society when authorized in writing by the Minister for that purpose; and 
such other conditions as the Treasurer thinks necessary are fulfilled. 
Turning to the first amendment, I move: 
After paragraph (b), insert the following paragraph: '(ba) the articles of the society are amended to provide for representation of the Commonwealth on the Board of Directors until the amount borrowed is fully repaid; ' 
Because of time restrictions I will keep my remarks brief. The Opposition has moved this amendment because we feel that sub-clause (c) does not give nearly enough protection to the Australian Government's possible investment of $4.5m in this enterprise. Sub-clause (c) provides for the Australian Public Service to have full access at all reasonable times to the financial accounts of the society. We feel that this will enable the Australian Government only to keep a watching eye on what is happening to the society from time to time and not to participate in the business decisions which are crucial to deciding how the enterprise will operate. Merely being able to inspect the books means that the Government will be able to find out whether the enterprise is going bad but it will not enable the Government to assist the enterprise by being involved and assisting in the making of business decisions. We have heard from other speakers in the debate and it has been mentioned elsewhere that one of the reasons for the failure of this enterprise was that the farmers running it lacked experience in the meat processing business. That is not a criticism of them and it is something which even representatives of the National Country Party in the Victorian Parliament have conceded. 
The Opposition has moved this amendment because we think that it would be of great assistance to the future viability of the enterprise if the Australian Government were able to appoint to the board of directors of the Co-operative- I do not think there would be any objection from the board of directors- its representatives who had knowledge of the meat processing industry to assist the board to make the right decision, to keep the business afloat and to ensure that the $4,5m which potentially the Australian Government has at risk in this enterprise is protected. 
-The second amendment which has been circulated in my name and which relates to clause 5 is a condition of the granting of the guarantee. I move: 
After paragraph (c), insert the following paragraph: '(ca) the State of Victoria appoints a full-scale inquiry into the operations of the Society in order to ascertain the precise reasons for its current financial difficulties; and ' 
What the Opposition is getting at here is that the society known as the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd was, as I mentioned in my speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, the subject of the misappropriation of funds to a substantial degree. There have been many calls for an inquiry into the whole episode, none of which has been granted by the Victorian Government, except, as I have also mentioned, the investigation which was commenced by the company fraud squad of the Victorian Police at the end of last year and which is still continuing. 
The calls for such an inquiry have come from a diverse group. The directors of the society themselves have called for such an inquiry. They wrote to the Premier of Victoria in June 1977 asking him to set up an inquiry because they were terribly disturbed about what had happened to their society and wanted to know fully why it had reached the stage it had reached under the managing directorship of  Mr Smart.  The Victorian Farmers Union has also supported the call for an inquiry. It wrote to the Premier in September 1977 seeking such an inquiry. According to a statement made by a member of the National Country Party in the Victorian Parliament, the Under-Secretary of the Premier's Department himself called for such an inquiry to be established in a letter he wrote to the Registrar of Co-operative Societies in November 1977. Members of the National Country Party in the Victorian Parliament have themselves sought on numerous occasions the establishment of such an inquiry. As far back as May 1977 they were seeking the establishment of an inquiry to find out exactly what has been going on but their appeals have fallen on deaf ears. Similarly, members of the Australian Labor Party in the Victorian Parliament have also sought an inquiry without success. 
We feel that it should be a condition of this loan guarantee that such an inquiry be established. We do so for two reasons. Firstly, it should be established for reasons of simple justice. Surely to goodness the people who are most involved- the 10,000 shareholders of the society, who are mostly people who cannot afford to lose any money- have a right to know exactly what has happened and to understand the full ramifications of the matter. They are entitled to know whether there was mismanagement apart from the operations of  Mr Smart  or whether he was solely responsible. Therefore, on the basis of simple justice, there is quite clearly a need for an inquiry. An inquiry by the company fraud squad is not enough. It will find out whether a crime has been committed and whether a prosecution ought to ensue, but there may be many other things which the shareholders would like to know and which they are not going to find out simply from an inquiry by the company fraud squad. 
There are commercial reasons that are relevant to the actions of honourable  members  in this Parliament. We are being asked to provide on behalf of the Australian taxpayers a possible amount of $4.5m to the society without knowing in detail what has happened over the last few years. We simply do not know the extent of any mismanagement. We do not know how much is attributable to  Mr Smart's  operations and how much is attributable to other factors. Those are things we ought to know. They ought to be put in the position of being found out before we concede to the loan guarantee and put the taxpayers money at risk to this degree. There are important reasons for insisting on this amendment. I also point out that the amendment is, in our view, a feasible amendment. It is open to us to make this a condition of the guarantee. It is no problem. We are simply saying that if this loan guarantee is to go through the Victorian Government has to abide by the condition of establishing an inquiry. It could do so tomorrow. There is no real problem. There are many ways in which it could do so. For instance, it could simply order the Registrar of Co-operative Societies to establish an inquiry. It could establish a judicial inquiry. Perhaps there are other ways. This is a feasible proposition. There is no problem about it whatever. We have moved this amendment believing, for both the reasons I have mentioned, that this is the most appropriate course of action. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What are the current forecasts for (a) the financial year 1977-78 and (b) calendar year 1978 for (i) the level of unemployment, (ii) the rate of inflation and (iii) the rate of economic growth. 
I second the motion,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I intend to speak to the motion next. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
The disinterest of Government supporters in this motion of censure of the Government for its inability to run the economy properly and for the misleading statements by its leaders, particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in trying to convince the Australian people that the economy is in fact, in good shape indicates their uneasiness at the state of the economy and their refusal to listen to the very detailed and strong arguments that can be put forward to show just how badly the economy is being run at the present time. Just about everyone in Australia must realise by now that this Government's economic policies are demonstrably disastrous. 
One has only to look at the level of unemployment to realise that this is the case. The rate of unemployment is now 7 per cent. For teenagers the rate of unemployment is over 20 per cent, which is an incredibly high level. Yet honourable members opposite do not even bother to come into this chamber to listen to the debate. The Government apparently will not even bother to send in a Minister to reply to the debate. It will put up one of its back bench supporters to reply to the debate for it. The Ministers are too scared to come into the chamber and debate these issues and to listen to the arguments that we have to place before them. They realise that their economic policies have been disastrous and are afraid to argue them out with us. 
We will concede immediately that there are substantial difficulties in controlling the economy in any country in the Western world at this time. There have been for a number of years. Because of international inflation and recession a process of stagflation is taking place in almost every developed country in the Western world. The factors which have operated to cause that also created enormous problems for the Labor Government prior to this Government's seizing office. 
-The Opposition regards this amendment as a sensible one which improves the Bill, and we therefore do not oppose it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-The Bill now before the House bears some relevance to the subject of the previous debate because this, too, has important implications for small business, albeit in a restricted area of the Australian Capital Territory- nominally also in respect of the Northern Territory, but in fact for the Australian Capital Territory only. What the Bill seeks to do is to amend the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act in several respects, the most important of which is to raise the general level of exemption from payroll tax in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory for an annual payroll of $48,000 as currently provided to an annual payroll of $60,000. That exemption will then be reduced by $2 for each additional $3 of payroll, so that for a payroll above $150,000 the full payroll is subject to the 5 per cent tax. 
The matter of payroll tax has become of considerable importance in Australia during this decade. In 1971 the Federal Government decided to hand this tax over to the States to collect to satisfy their demands for a growth tax and increased autonomy, with the result that its incidence was quickly increased and payroll tax became the single most important revenue source for the States. Meanwhile the Australian Government continued to levy the tax in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory and has, in general, applied rates identical to those being charged by the States. The uniform rate now is 5 per cent but with some small variations as to the levels of exemption. All States except Queensland now have a basic exemption of $60,000, although there are some differences in the extent to which that exemption is tapered off. Tasmania and New South Wales write the exemption off at the rate of $2 for each additional $3 of payroll over $60,000, as is proposed in this Bill, so that all exemption ceases at $150,000. Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia use the same rate of tapering of the exemption, except that tapering ceases at payrolls of $109,500 and all payrolls at that level and above enjoy a basic exemption of $27,000. In Queensland the current basic exemption level is $100,000, with the exemption being tapered off at the rate of $5 for each additional $2 of annual payroll, but with all payrolls of $127,200 and above being exempt from tax on the first $27,000. As from 1 July this year the basic exemption in Queensland will increase again to $125,000, tapering off to $164,200, at which level of payroll and above tax will be payable on a payroll in excess of $27,000. Thus it can be seen that the present provisions applying in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are by far the least generous. 
What this Bill proposes is to raise the exemptions in the Territories to the lowest level applied by the States. It is therefore in no sense a trendsetting piece of legislation. It is rather a catch-up piece of legislation which provides for small businesses in the Territories the rninimum conditions applying to small businesses in the States. One sympathises with the States in respect to the situation that they now find themselves in with regard to payroll tax. Although they welcomed the Federal Government's decision to hand collection of the tax over to them, the States find that it has since become a very unpopular tax and that they themselves are under continuous pressure to reduce its incidence. However, because it is such an important piece of revenue for the States they are unable to give way to such pressures to too great a degree. 
The reasons for the increased unpopularity of the tax are twofold. The rapid increase in the rate of the tax to 5 per cent by September 1974 guaranteed a sharp reaction from businessmen, and, of course, the onset of economic recession in 1974 and its increased severity since have increased complaints about the tax. The business sector complains that the tax is levied without regard to capacity to pay. It is indeed true that it is payable whether a company makes a loss or a profit and, where it makes a profit, without regard to the level of profitability. Thus, some companies have a greater liability for payroll tax than they have for company tax. 
In the last two or three years there has also been increasing concern about the employment effects of this tax. A tax on employment, which is what this tax is, clearly is not calculated to assist employment prospects. Indeed, it is likely to lead to fewer people being employed than would otherwise be the case. The employer organisations in this country have complained about the phantom twenty-first employee: That is, for every 20 persons they employ they must pay for another through the incidence of payroll tax. This means that labour intensive industries are much more severely affected than capitalintensive industries, and since it is our labourintensive industries that are most under challenge from imports from low income countries to our north, the payroll tax is for them a heavy burden indeed. 
The Victorian Employers Federation calculated last year that if payroll tax were to be abolished altogether, another 100,000 persons would be employed in Australia. Even if one is skeptical of that figure, it is difficult to deny that the operation of payroll tax in this country is a major stumbling block in the path to the return to full employment. Indeed, the Australian tax system is doubly biased against employment in that not only do we have a high tax on labour but also we have through the investment allowance a large tax concession applying to additional investment which, insofar as it is labour-saving investment, represents a tax incentive to replace men with machines. The reality, as the Government has admitted in the most recent national wage case, is that most of the investment taking place at present is labour-saving investment, which is what one would expect when demand is slack and attractive tax concessions for investment, which are of limited duration, are made available at the same time. Naturally, in these circumstances there is a powerful incentive for employers to take advantage of the investment allowance and to invest in machines which enable them to maintain their present output at lower cost, rather than to increase capacity to produce more by investing in machinery to enable them to produce more with the current methods of production. Thus, the operation of the tax on labour through the payroll tax and a tax concession on labour-saving capital through the investment allowance mean that the tax system is massively biased in this country against the employment of people. 
In this respect I think it is most important for the House to take note of something to which I have referred previously. I do not think the Government has taken any notice of it, so I refer to it once again. This is a most important statement made in Paris by the Secretary of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development at a meeting of experts on structural determinants of employment and unemployment. In making the opening speech at that meeting in March of last year the Secretary of the OECD said: 
Of the various structural explanations of unemployment, a theme that has been getting increased attention by policy makers in some of our member countries, and one which I am glad to see has received prominent attention in the papers prepared for this conference, deals with the possibility of overly capital intensive production methods in the private sector at the expense of employment. 
He went on to mention ways in which this happens and the incentives for it. They include payroll taxes, which increase the cost of labour, depreciation allowances, artificially low interest rates and so on. He then stated: 
What we may perhaps agree is that where governments wish to encourage private investment to sustain economic growth, it is important that the incentives chosen should support a wholesome balance between capital-deepening and capital-widening (i.e., between labour saving and job creation) and that the tax system should avoid any bias against the use of labour. 
I draw attention particularly to the last statement:   . . the tax system should avoid any bias against the use  of labour 
Quite clearly, the problem being drawn to the attention of the experts in Paris in 1977 by the Secretary of the OECD is a problem that has extreme relevance in this country. As I have already shown, we have a tax system that is massively biased against the use of labour; on the one hand there is a tax on labour and on the other hand there is an incentive for investment to be labour saving rather than job creating. Even if one takes account of the fact that an increasing array of subsidies is available for employment through the Special Youth Employment Training Program and the National Employment and Training Scheme, one can still say that, taken overall, the tax system in this country is massively biased against the use of labour Clearly, if governments are at all concerned about unemployment, and there is not much evidence to show that this Government is so concerned, something should be done, and quickly, to remove or at least substantially to reduce this tax bias against labour. 
The removal of the investment allowance is one means of reducing the tax bias, but it is also clear that as much as possible should be done to reduce the incidence of payroll tax. In this connection, I draw the attention of the House to the recent decision of the Swedish Government to reduce payroll tax from four per cent to two per cent and to abolish it altogether as from July this year. The fact that Sweden, with an unemployment level less than half of ours, is abolishing its payroll tax shows just how much more concern there is by its government, which is a conservative government, to reduce employment than there is by the Australian Government. If anything substantial is to be done about payroll tax in this country, it is up to the Federal Government to take the initiative. The States are so dependent now on payroll tax that it is quite unrealistic to expect them to do anything other than make adjustments to the exemption level in an attempt to relieve the burden on small business, which is basically labour intensive. 
The Bill now before us shows just how disinclined this Government is to take any such action. In a simple matter of raising exemption levels for payroll taxes in the Territories it is prepared to go only to the lowest State level. In our opinion it should be prepared to raise the exemption level at least to the highest level set by any State, which is that applying in Queensland. The complete exemption applying in that State from the middle of this year will be at a level more than double that which this Bill will implement in the Australian Capital Territory. I ask the House to consider the difference. A payroll of $60,000 will not quite cover a business with a staff of seven, taking the median rate of earnings of $ 170 a week 
The Queensland exemption, however, will completely cover a business with a staff of 14 employees being paid at the median level of earnings. That is a very substantial difference, and clearly exemptions at that level would greatly enhance the prospect of small businesses being able to employ an additional person. According to calculations made by a Liberal member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, the widening of the exemption from its present level to the Queensland level would exempt some 1,600 Australian Capital Territory employers from liability for payroll tax and undoubtedly would give a fillip to employment in Canberra. It would also encourage the other States to do their best to raise their exemptions to the Australian Capital Territory level and thus free many thousands of small businesses from the tax. 
A further reason for giving serious consideration to this proposal is that the Legislative Assembly in Canberra has resolved to support raising the exemption to the Queensland level. Since the Assembly can be taken as speaking more directly than any other body for the people of Canberra, it is clear that this is what the people of Canberra want. As the Australian Capital Territory moves towards selfgovernment, the wishes of its people in respect of financial matters should receive increased attention and consideration from the Government, but little attention has been paid to their wishes in this matter. Of course, costs art involved in increasing the exemptions, but from the point of view of the Federal Government there are offsets that do not apply to the States. Immediately payroll tax exemptions are increased in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, if that has the effect of increasing employment, unemployment benefit payments are reduced and people who are at work pay more in the way of income tax. If a company simply keeps the tax in its profits, something one would try to reduce to a minimum, it will at least pay more company tax. So there are substantial immediate offsets to the Federal Government if it increases the level of exemption applying to payroll tax in the Territories. 
We on this side of the House regard the eradication of the appallingly high level of unemployment now prevailing in this country as the prime task of the Government at this time. We do not consider the attainment of such an objective to be at all easy but we do assert that many policy measures could be undertaken which would assist in the attainment of that objective. One such measure would be to reduce substantially and if possible eradicate the tax bias against the use of labour. This Bill shows, however, that the Government, which preaches long and loud about the evil effects of current wage levels, is prepared to take only the minimum possible steps to reduce the tax bias against employment. In so doing it proves once again that it is not really very concerned about unemployment, or at least that that concern runs secondary to various other objectives it is more anxious to pursue. I therefore move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for levels of exemption from pay-roll tax no less than those that will apply in the State of Queensland from 1 July 1978.' 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements have been made to borrow overseas during 1977-78 and what was the value of each of these loans in the currency (a) in which they are denominated and (b) in Australian dollars. 
What is the total value of the loans in Australian dollars. 
What are the repayment periods, interest rates and commission rates for each of the loans. 
When was each loan received. 
What impact have these overseas borrowings made on the Government's financing transactions. 
Are there any direct or indirect consequences for the Australian money supply from these overseas borrowings. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
What was the approximate proportionate influence of each of the following factors influencing the consumer price index during 1977: (a) indirect taxes and charges, (b) the petrol price increase, (c) devaluation, (d) movements in international prices, and (e) other. 
I direct to the Prime Minister a question which concerns his claims that the Government's economic strategy has been vindicated by the recent report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on Australia. Has the Prime Minister noted reports of statements by the right honourable member for Lowe that people should not take much notice of such OECD reports on Australia because they are edited by Treasury officials, and that although all countries do some editing, no one does it with quite the same intensity as we do? 
-In July last year the Sydney Press carried reports of what it described as the years biggest party, which it said was thrown by a millionaire in a mansion almost as big as the Ritz. This lavish $25,000 function was in fact a party for the staff of a man who was said to have had a staggeringly successful year. The staff were reported to have been entertained on the boss's yacht, flown around in a helicopter to admire his stud and cattle properties and dined like kings in his Gold Coast mansion.  His  businesses had indeed boomed in 1976-77. The gross revenue of his publicly listed company had almost quadrupled and profits had doubled to reach two-thirds of a million dollars, which was entirely untaxable.  His  several unlisted companies were reputed to have fared just as well. Since then the man involved has bought a $4m property on the Queensland Gold Coast on which to build his own mini city, has acquired expensive race horses and has set up a horse breeding establishment with one of Australia's leading jockeys. I need hardly add that this man owes his success to being at the forefront of Australia's leading growth industry, namely, the tax avoidance industry. 
Tax avoidance is the major aspect of the legislation now before the House- the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1978. At long last the Government has decided to take some action to slow the pace of this runaway industry which, if allowed to develop much further, would surely undermine the whole basis of the tax structure in the very near future. Our tax structure is supposedly built, at least in respect of direct taxation, on the principle of capacity to pay. But that principle has been greatly eroded in recent years. The increased sophistication of the tax lawyers and accountants, with the immense assistance of the attitude taken by the High Court in its interpretation of the taxation legislation, has enabled many loopholes in the legislation to be opened up in recent years, with the result that high income earners have been able to reduce their taxation liabilities drastically. Thus the nominal progression of the income tax schedule has been severely eroded. 
Such loopholes are not generally available to wage and salary earners. Such people would, in any case, find the fees payable to the promotors of these schemes far too high for the tax savings they could make on their incomes, even if the schemes were nominally available to them. In practice, the schemes are really available only to highly remunerated business and professional people. Their successful and increasingly widespread use means that the real, as distinct from the nominal, tax schedule has less and less to do with the principle of capacity to pay. 
The Labor Party is implacably opposed to such regressive developments. What these people, both the promotors of the tax avoidance schemes and their clients are doing is- in fact if not in law-defrauding the revenue and thus overburdening the ordinary wage and salary earners. Each dollar they succeed in keeping from the Australian Taxation Office is, in the long term, another dollar the ordinary taxpayer must pay to that Office. When, as we are now informed is the case, hundreds of millions of dollars are riding on just one scheme, it is clear that drastic action has to be taken to prevent the continuance of such patent inequities in our tax system. However, the Government's motives, it would appear, are less concerned with equity than with the blowing out of the deficit. Recently we read reports of a prospective deficit for next financial year of a possible $6m, or only $3m if there is no increase whatever in government expenditure. Of course, even $3m would be well above the scheduled deficit for this financial year. 
After all, this is a government whose leaders have openly admitted that they have family trusts, which are nothing more than tax avoiding arrangements, and whose ex-Treasurer, whilst threatening to take action against taxation avoidance, was revealed to have been minimising his tax liabilities through the device of a family trust. If such tax avoidance is being practised by the nation's leaders, is it any wonder that this lucrative pastime has become so popular in the community generally? On 23 November 1977, speaking on the radio program  P.M.,  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
I think it is entirely appropriate for people to have family trusts. 
With the Prime Minister of the country openly advocating the use of a device to reduce income tax by sharing business income with members of the family and to reduce estate duty, is it any wonder that tax avoiders have felt free to go hell for leather? The example comes from the top. 
Such comments also demonstrate this Government's lack of concern for equity in the tax system. Its motivation for introducing the legislation that it has now put before the Parliament clearly is its anxiety as to the effect on the deficit of allowing the continuation of those schemes. The fault that it sees with these schemes is not that they are tax avoidance schemes per se but that they have become such enormous drains on the revenue that even a sympathetic government must take action to end them. Thus, although dozens of loopholes are advertised openly and must be known to the Government only six have been legislated against in this Bill and notice has been given of action to close too additional loopholes relating to prepayments of rent and interest. 
We can also expect no effective action against trusts. Although the Government introduced some minor tightening of tax exemptions applying to distributions to minor beneficiaries in a trust, I am informed that they are easily avoided by making distributions under section 26B rather than under Division 6. The Government's lack of seriousness in this matter is shown by the operative dates it set for the closing of the five tax avoidance arrangements other than the current scheme. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  introduced this legislation on 7 April and concluded his second reading speech at 4.40 p.m. In respect of the non-current schemes he provided for their termination after 7 April. That means that promoters of these schemes had the rest of 7 April to process such schemes. I understand that the time was very well utilised. In Perth they had until 2 a.m. Eastern time so the focus of activity was in that city. Some reports have it that $ 100m worth of tax avoidance business was done on 7 April, not that the smart operators would have had to wait until the Treasurer had made his second reading speech. One major operator in the tax avoidance field told me that he had full details of the legislation by 7 a.m. on the morning of 7 April. Nevertheless, disregarding the extensive leaking of the legislation, the question must be asked: Why did the Government bring in legislation on 7 April but not outlaw the schemes until the next day, thereby giving the industry time for one last glorious fling? Was it some sort of square-off or an attempt to placate Government supporters who would be annoyed at the ending of some of their favourite schemes. Whatever the reason, the Parliament needs to be told why the Government needlessly allowed many millions of dollars to slip through the net. All it needed to do to prevent that happening was to state that the legislation would apply from 7 April, not after that date. 
A further reason for doubting that the Government 's motives in introducing this legislation had much to do with equity but rather were motivated by concern at the enormity of the prospective loss of revenue is its action in setting different operative dates for the clauses closing off various schemes. Honourable members are very well aware that, as a result of intensive lobbying by the tax avoidance industry, the clauses dealing with the current scheme will come into effect from 17 August 1977 whilst others, as I have mentioned, are operative from 8 April. By taking the current scheme back to 17 August the Government clearly is trying to give some validity for the then Treasurer's action in giving notice on Budget day 16 August that action would be taken against tax avoidance schemes. However, he failed to specify any particular schemes and the point has therefore been made by those lobbying against any retrospectivity that the Lynch statement provides no basis for singling out one particular scheme for operation from that date. Insofar as it provides any justification for a retrospective date of operation it should apply to all of the schemes involved, not just to one of them. 
We on this side of the House can see some validity in that argument but we do not accept the next step of the tax avoiders' argument that therefore there should be no restrospectivity for any scheme. Rather, we would say that all of them should be backdated. The real reason for the Government's differential treatment of the current scheme quite clearly is its concern at the enormity of the loss of revenue involved. The Treasurer estimated that several hundred million dollars of revenue could be lost on this one scheme and even those who have claimed that the Treasurer has greatly over-estimated the sum involved still consider that well over $100m of revenue is involved in this one scheme. The Opposition also is alarmed at the magnitude of such tax dodging. The millions of ordinary people in this country who dutifully, if not joyfully, pay their taxes each year and never consider trying to put a fast one over the tax authorities must be amazed to learn that through such schemes as this people with incomes far higher than their own have been able completely to avoid paying tax not only for one year but for years into the future. I understand that the magnitude of tax losses engendered under some current schemes is so enormous that not only will it enable all tax liability to be avoided for the next seven years but that by use of trusts- those hallowed tax havens which this Government maintains are quite proper and respectable- the tax obligation can be wiped out for an even greater period of time. This follows from the fact that trusts are not subject to the seven-year time frame for the recoupment of losses. Even so, the question remains whether the extent of tax avoidance involved in a particular scheme provides a sound basis for differential treatment as to operative dates for probititive legislation. 
In the view of the Opposition it is a rather vague and uncertain basis for such discrimination, especially as the Commissioner of Taxation has an inadequate knowledge at this stage of the income year as to the extent of the various schemes in operation. He will not know what the situation is in that regard for this income year until January or February 1979 when the tax returns for this current income year ending 30 June are filed. It may well be that very large sums are involved in some of the other schemes as well. The prepaid rent and interest schemes which are apparently much simpler to operate than the current scheme are reputed to have been used extensively this year yet the date of closure for these schemes will not be until 20 April. Thus the principle of backdating a scheme which seems, on the basis of inadequate information available to the Commissioner for Taxation, to be very extensively used and letting the rest of the schemes operate until the date of announcement of legislation against them seems to us to be a very unsatisfactory mode of operation. I do not wish to imply by this that we are worried about inequities for tax dodgers who punted on the wrong scheme but rather that we do not see such ad hoc methods as being effective in limiting tax avoidance. Under the Government's approach if the industry keeps some sense of proportion and does not make the mistake it made with the current scheme of going into it too heavily, it can expect that the Government will close off the scheme only from the date of announcement of its intention to legislate. Such an approach by governments ensures the tax avoidance industry of continued prosperity and the tax dodgers of continued success. 
By the time the tax authorities discover a scheme it is almost certainly being used extensively. It may well be that it is in its second year of operation since, as I have explained already, the tax authorities do not receive tax returns for the year ended 30 June until the following January or February. By the time they discover a scheme it may well have been used in respect of two financial years. However, the tax authorities can find out about these schemes by less formal means and, hopefully, may discover them in the first year of operation. Thus, by accepting the approach that the Government should generally abide by the principle that it legislates against the scheme only from the time it discovers it and decides to legislate against it, one is conceding a massive advantage to tax avoiders. They will always be in front. Tax avoidance will always be rife and the equity of the tax system will be permanently impaired. We on this side of the House therefore take the view that the Government should date all legislation to close off tax avoidance schemes from the beginning of the financial year in which they are discovered to be operating. 
Such an approach is absolutely essential if tax avoidance is to be minimised. At the most it would mean that tax avoiders would get away with a scheme for one year only, provided the Government was diligent, and if the tax authorities were really quick off the mark they could wipe out a scheme before it had been successfully in operation for even one year. In this respect the action the tax authorities are taking now to investigate tax payers whose professional returns are markedly reduced, so as to find out how they justify such a reduced return, is the sort of action that could well discover schemes in the first year of operation. The application of such a principle would doubtless be claimed to involve retrospectivity and therefore to break a fundamental principle that legislation should not be retrospective. In this regard we would argue that it is debatable whether such action would, in fact, involve retrospectivity. A tax liability does not arise until the end of a financial year and it should be open to governments to change the tax law in respect of that financial year before the year has ended and the tax liability been incurred. 
It would of course be unfair to change the tax laws in respect of ordinary commercial operations and date them from the beginning of the financial year as that could affect the basis on which a normal commercial transaction was undertaken. But we are not talking about ordinary commercial transactions. We are discussing totally artificial transactions, the sole or overwhelming motivation for which is to reduce or wipe out entirely a tax obligation that arises at the end of that financial year. In those circumstances it is quite feasible to argue that dating the operation of legislation designed to block a tax avoidance scheme from the beginning of the financial year, does not involve retrospectivity. Even if one does not accept that argument, such a procedure is in our view thoroughly defend - able. One must balance against the general principle of non-retrospectivity the need to maintain equity in the tax system. 
There have been various examples of retrospective legislation in our past which put beyond doubt the power of the Parliament to pass such legislation but, more importantly, the courts have recognised that such legislation may sometimes be the most socially desirable solution. In this regard I draw the attention of the House to the High Court judgment of  Mr Justice  Isaacs in 1923 in which he said: 
What may seem unjust when regarded from the standpoint of one person affected may be absolutely just when a broad view is taken of all who are affected. There is no remedial Act which does not affect some vested right, but, when contemplated in its total effect, justice may be overwhelmingly on the other side. 
This statement eloquently expresses the view of the Opposition on this matter. But, unlike the Government, we do not say that this principle should be used only on isolated occasions but rather on all occasions when tax avoidance schemes are found to be operated since, no matter how much money is involved, they are all a blatant attack on the equity of the tax system and an imposition on the rest of the populace who are left to bear a larger proportion of the tax load. 
We will therefore move in the Committee stages of this debate for the operative base for all of the clauses blocking off avoidance schemes to be after 30 June 1977. 1 also give notice here and now that the future Labor government will adopt and rigorously implement the principle of dating all anti-tax avoidance legislation as from the beginning of the financial year in which it was discovered and intention to legislate against it was announced. A Labor government would also ensure, by clamping down on tax avoidance schemes, that the Australian Taxation Office had available adequate resources to enable it effectively to undertake its task. At present we understand the Taxation Office to be less than adequately manned which of course greatly inhibits its ability to tackle the sophisticated and wealthy tax avoidance industry. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, in view of the enormity of tax avoidance in this country, it is quite remarkable, given that the Income Tax Assessment Act completely forbids such practice, that we have this enormous tax avoidance industry. Section 260 of the Act would appear on the face of it to give the tax avoiders no chance. If I may summarise section 260, it says that every contract, agreement or arrangement shall so far as it has or purports to have the purpose or effect of: 
altering the incidence of any income tax; 
relieving any person from liability to pay any income tax or make any return; 
defeating, evading, or avoiding any duty or liability imposed on any person by this Act; or 
the operation of this Act in any respect, be absolutely void, as against the Commissioner . . . 
The ordinary layman, on reading that section, would conclude that such an annihilation clause, as it is known, would absolutely prevent tax avoidance schemes and so render legislation such as we have now before us quite unnecessary. After all, it expressly says that schemes which have as their purpose or effect the avoidance of any duty or liability imposed by the Act shall be absolutely void. That would surely seem to be saying: 'Tax avoidance schemes are out', but such is not the case. The annihilation clause has itself been annihilated by the High Court which has given this seemingly catch all section a very restricted interpretation. I quote from the  Australian Master Tax Guide: 
It would seem clear that the potential scope of operation of section 260 is very limited. 
This being the case, it would surely be worthwhile for the Government to re-draft section 260 in such a way that it did effectively prevent blatant artificial tax avoidance schemes. A major problem with continually legislating against individual schemes is that the tax law becomes more and more complex. It is already exceedingly complex and the more legislation that has to be passed to plug loopholes, the more incomprehensible it becomes to all but professionals in the area and, of course, the more loopholes there are for the smart operators to open up. If the Government is really serious about preventing tax avoidance, it must re-draft section 260. A tax avoidance legislation may from time to time still have to be passed, but nowhere near as often as will be the case while section 260 remains in the castrated form to which it has been reduced by the High Court. 
The role of the High Court is indeed worthy of mention not only in respect of section 260 but also for its impact on other sections of the Act. It is amazing to the layman that the High Court can find that a transaction which netted a profit of $2,783 through the purchase and sale of shares could somehow bring the trader involved a tax loss of $188,217, but that is what the Court found in Curran's case. A number of amendments that are now before us have been made necessary by the High Court's decisions upholding the legality of a particular scheme, or the likelihood that it would do so. Thus the High 
Court has been very closely involved in the development of the tax avoidance industry in this country. Its decisions have opened up vast loopholes. It would appear that the present and recent members of the High Court, with the odd exception, have had little regard to the dictum to which I referred earlier enunciated by  Mr Justice  Isaacs in 1923. Rather, they seem to have ignored the effect of their' decisions on the community as a whole and thereby dealt a severe blow to social justice in our community. 
In this regard also it is enormously disturbing to note that a leading promoter of tax avoidance schemes in this country openly boasted recently that one of his top clients was a High Court judge. The claim, as reported in the  Australian Financial Review,  on 6 February was made by  Mr Ian  Gooch who is a major promoter of cattle leasing schemes and a close associate of the leading tax avoidance promoter to whom I referred earlier. If there is any truth in this allegation it does in our view raise a quite serious question of impropriety, since the major motivation for indulging in cattle leasing is tax avoidance. High Court judges who are continually called on to adjudicate on tax avoidance issues should surely seem to be above such schemes. The Opposition will not oppose the second reading of this Bill. We will, as I have suggested, propose amendments in the Committee stages of the debate to provide that the operative date for all of the tax avoidance legislation is as from 30 June 1977. We do not oppose the other aspects of tax legislation contained in the Bill. 
-The Opposition does not support this amendment. I do not profess to have understood the mathematics of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  but it seems to me that the simple amendment he has moved to omit the words 'the Commissioner considers appropriate' and to substitute the words 'are appropriate' is not an appropriate amendment for this House to adopt. In this area the Commissioner has need of some flexibility. To try to put into a tremendously complex piece of legislation something which would spell out every conceivable situation would seem to us to be a legislative absurdity. Some flexibility must remain with the Commissioner of Taxation in this sort of legislation. One trusts the Commissioner enought to think that he will not be unfair. 
In this particular area where we are dealing with the Curran case, an area where there has been massive rip-off of the public revenue in the past, we think that if anything the Commissioner should bear down fairly hard rather than to be too lenient. We support the general concept in the Bill which contains the words 'if the Commissioner considers appropriate '; that is, to give the Commissioner the right to decide as he thinks appropriate on the basis of equity and not to try to spell out every possible situation as would in fact be necessary if we were to put just 'are appropriate' instead. How would we decide what is appropriate unless we had some sort of legislative guideline to follow? It seems that some other amendment would have to follow from what the right honourable member for Lowe is proposing if it were to make any sense. We oppose the amendment. 
-The Opposition opposes the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  The effect of the amendment would be that the closure of the Curran scheme as a tax avoidance measure would not be backdated to 16 or 17 August but would operate as from 8 April. We strongly oppose any amendment which has that effect. As those who listened to the second reading debate would know, every  speaker  on this side of the House supported the concept of retrospectivity in taxation matters and we did so for very sound reasons. We did it because we believe strongly that unless some retrospectivity or backdating applies to the closure of tax avoidance schemes the advantage will always be with the tax avoiders, the people who are generally reasonably wealthy and certainly at the upper end of the wealth scale in the community and who are avoiding tax at an enormous rate at present. We think that these people should not be given an advantage because it destroys the equity of the taxation system. 
The tax avoidance industry devises tax avoidance schemes every year and if we do not have retrospectivity it means that we are giving them a substantial break and are quite possibly letting that scheme operate for two income years. As I said in the second reading debate, in the normal course of events the Taxation Office does not receive the taxation returns for an income year until January or February the following calendar year and this means that about three-quarters of the next income year has passed before the Taxation Office knows what tax avoidance schemes are being used that year by the tax avoiders. If we do not backdate - 
-Obviously if the honourable member had listened to the second reading debate he would have known that that was a stupid statement. If we do not backdate we are giving the tax avoiders the chance to use that scheme not only in the first year but also in the second year. The Opposition believes strongly that the Taxation Office ought to use its best endeavours to find out by less formal means- I am sure it already does that but perhaps it should step up its activities in that regard- what taxation avoidance schemes are being used within an income year so that it can knock them off in the first year and not have to wait until the second year before it learns that they are being used in the taxation returns being placed before it by taxpayers. 
The Opposition strongly supports the concept of backdating. If we do not have it we do not have equity in the taxation system and that surely is a tremendously important principle but one which the right honourable member for Lowe entirely neglected in his comments. He had no regard for that principle. Does he think that it is right and proper that the ordinary man and woman, who just cannot afford to utilise tax avoidance schemes because they cannot afford to pay the legal and accounting fees involved and because it would not be worth their while anyway in view of the lower levels of taxation that they pay, should have to pay a higher amount of tax because people on much higher levels of income and wealth are avoiding their tax? That is what it amounts to. If the higher income earners avoid their tax payments it means that someone else has to pick up their tax burden. If the right honourable member for Lowe thinks that it is fine that the ordinary wage and salary earner should pay more tax because the higher income earners can avoid paying their appropriate share of tax, that is something with which he has to live. 
And that is a totally objectionable attitude which the right honourable member has and we do not support him one iota. The fact is that we not only support the concept of retrospectivity but we also indicated during the second reading debate a principle that ought to be applied. I was intending to move amendments during the Committee stage to give force to that principle but I am unable to do so because the effect of moving those amendments would be to increase the incidence of taxation and it is against Standing Order 253 for an honourable member other than the Minister to do that. We therefore moved an amendment during the second reading debate but it was rubbished by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his reply to that debate. I think that he did himself less than justice in doing so because every  speaker  on this side of the House gave support in this matter which is more than he can say for all the members on his own side. Before he scorns the Opposition's efforts in debate he should bear in mind what has happened in the debate and the support that he has received from us as against the support he has received from some of his own colleagues. He should bear in mind that if he wants to be so unfair he might find in future that we are less principled than we are being in this case. 
During the second reading debate we proposed the principle that in every case where the Taxation Office found a tax avoidance measure being utilised by the wealthy people in the community an announcement should be made forthwith that legislation against that scheme would be introduced and backdated to the beginning of the financial year. Everyone then would know where he stood. Every time a scheme was discovered it would be backdated to the beginning of that financial year. If we do not do that we are letting the tax avoiders get away with it for that income year. Let us consider the cases we have in front of us now. 
Apart from the Curran scheme, in respect of all the schemes that are being utilised- the charity scheme and the pre-paid rent and interest schemes which we have not got before us but which have been very heavily utilised this financial year- the people who are using them are going to get away with it this financial year. Surely that is an absurdity. If we really want to pursue the principle of equity in the taxation system legislation against all these schemes should be taken back to 30 June. That is what the Government itself thought last year. It is exactly the principle which it then tried to introduce in respect of the amendments to section 36a of the Act and we applaud it for that action. The Opposition thinks that the Government then did the right thing. What we are angry about now is that the Government is not doing it in this case. In a sense the Treasurer and the Government have caved in to the objections of people such as the right honourable member for Lowe by not pursuing the principle which it sought to adopt last year. 
It was not a different principle; it was exactly the same. It involved a backdating to 30 June or 1 July, the beginning of the financial year. What happened was that after objections had been raised within the Government parties the Government decided to capitulate and instead of the legislation operating from the date of the announcement, about 26 April- I forget the date exactly- a substantial time was allowed to elapse before it came into operation. It has been found in other countries that retrospectivity is important. On the very day that the Treasurer announced tax avoidance measures in this country the Chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain,  Mr Healey,  made an announcement about the need to introduce measures to legislate against tax avoidance schemes operating in the United Kingdom and he backdated that legislation two years. He said that this was absolutely necessary if his Government was to beat the tax avoiders and have equity in its taxation system. We are saying to the Government that we think it is tremendously important that it pursues retrospectivity, providing it is retrospectivity within the one financial year. As I mentioned in the second reading debate, one could put up a respectable argument that it is not really retrospective if it is within that financial year anyway because the tax liability does not occur until the end of that financial year. The Government should have the power to change the tax laws in that financial year so long as it does not invalidate ordinary commercial transactions which may have been made partly because of a taxation benefit. But with the straight out artificial tax avoidance schemes, surely it is not unfair to say: 'Well, we are going to make this particular legislation closing this scheme operative from the beginning of this financial year and not let it operate on the income which you will earn up to 30 June this financial year'. 
We strongly oppose the amendments put forward by the right honourable member for Lowe. We think he is thoroughly wrong in his attitude. We think he is concerned for the wealthly and privileged as against the ordinary people of this country. The theory that we have to pay the tax bills which are avoided by the tax dodgers is one which we cannot possibly share. We support the original clause with the objection that we would prefer to have the scheme operating from 30 June or 1 July rather than from 16 August or 17 August. 
-The Opposition does not support this amendment. What the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  proposes, in effect, is to wipe out one form of the legislation prohibiting artificial share trading losses, and we do not support him in that regard.  His  argument about the discretionary powers of the Commissioner have been well and truly canvassed, and I do not intend to go back over them. I direct the attention of the House to what is involved in clause 9. It comprises three pages of legislation designed to prohibit one form of tax avoidance scheme, that relating to share trading losses. This gives some indication of the enormous complexity of the legislation that this method of attempting to stop tax avoidance brings about. I therefore renew to the Treasurer and to the Government the plea that I and other honourable members on this side made during the second reading debatethat if the Government is really serious about preventing tax avoidance, section 260 of the Act be amended. Section 260, on the face of it, seems to say that all forms of tax avoidance, such as that dealt with in clause 9 and the other clauses of the Bill, are void as against the Commissioner, but in effect the High Court has rendered section 260 virtually useless in prohibiting tax avoidance. Tax avoidance schemes can be dreamed up by the wealthy and efficient tax avoidance industry. It is not just a matter of legislating against the half dozen schemes that we have before us, and particularly that dealt with in clause 9. This sort of thing will happen again and again. Year after year we will be back here with this sort of legislation. The Act, as though it is not already complex enough, will become increasingly complex. 
Section 260 gives the Government an alternative. If it were re-written so that the Commissioner of Taxation would have the power to declare void any tax avoidance scheme we would not be faced with the continual need to legislate, or these continual worries on the part of some Government supporters about having to deal with retrospectivity when a particular scheme gets away and the Government becomes worried about loss of revenue. All of this would be avoided if we had an effective section 260. Achieving that result would be by far the most sensible thing to do. Whether the Government does or not will be the real test of whether it is really serious about stopping tax avoidance. If it so amends section 260 as to make tax avoidance schemes illegal, or void as before the Commissioner, it will really have done something effective to prevent tax avoidance in this country. 
-The Opposition supports the amendment to this clause. In so doing I point out that the clause as amended bears some similarity to a provision in old section 77d of the Income Tax Assessment Act which was taken out by the previous Labor Government. In supporting the reintroduction of a concession to those who subscribe paid up capital to mining companies, there are a number of differences which are relevant. Firstly, the form of the concession is now to be a rebate of 30c in the dollar subscribed rather that a straight reduction which before meant that what one gained from the tax concession depended on the marginal rate of tax. It could have been as high as 65 per cent. Secondly, it applies only to offshore exploration companies. The old section 77d applied to all mining companies but this clause has a much more restricted operation and deals with the very delicate area of off-shore petroleum exploration. It is highly desirable that we expand exploration and hopefully come up with greater petroleum reserves. Thirdly, the companies cannot claim the expenditure as a deduction, and the fact that the deduction is claimed by the person who subscribes the funds rather than the company means that there is virtually a transfer of the tax concession, although if the company does not find anything it will not have any profits against which to put its exploration costs. Finally, the legislation contains a number of sub-clauses which are intended to ensure that the loopholes which may have been in the old section 77d, which enabled funds supposedly subscribed for exploration to be used for other purposes, will not exist under this legislation. That is as we understand it. We therefore support the clause as amended. 
However, in expressing our support for the clause, I point out that it is the strong view of the members on this side of the House that, if the Government is subsidising the search for offshore petroleum in this way, it makes an even bigger case for the introduction of a resource rent tax if petroleum is found by such a company. A resource rent tax is something to which the Government has paid lip service in the past. The Government does not seem to have got any further with its introduction. However, we on this side of the House are strongly committed to the introduction of a resource rent tax and the case for such a tax is all the greater if the Government is providing a subsidy for funds subscribed to the paid up capital of petroleum exploration companies. 
-These are Appropriation Bills and it is normal for such Bills at this stage of the year to be introduced to appropriate additional funds for various purposes. The Bills continue the Government's policy of restraint on expenditure and that so-called policy of expenditure restraint was reaffirmed in the second reading speech of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  In fact, the socalled expenditure restraint policy in our view has not served this country well. It has been a substantial contributing factor to the recessionary nature of the Australian economy over the last two years, particularly in 1 977. 
The cutbacks in Government expenditure, especially in the area of public investment, have been substantial. I ask the House to take note of the fact that in the first half of 1 976 public investment declined by 14.8 per cent, a very substantial cutback. In the second half of 1976 it increased by only 0.2 per cent. For the whole of 1976 public investment fell by 6.8 per cent. In 1977 it increased by 3.6 per cent and in 1978, according to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, it is estimated to increase by only 0.5 per cent. The increase of 3.6 per cent in 1977 was not greatly attributable to the activities of this Government because the figures I have been given relate to public investment by all governments, State and Federal. In 1977 the States raided their own reserves, so to speak, to invest in order to create jobs. That is not something which, as the OECD points out in its recent report on Australia, can continue to occur. Therefore, given the continued very severe restraint which this Government is pursuing in relation to government expenditure, particularly investment, the rate of increase in public investment in 1978 will be substantially reduced. As I have said, it will be reduced from 3.6 per cent in 1977 to 0.5 per cent in 1978. 
The effect of these dramatic cuts in public investment and in government expenditure generally has been to bring about a substantially reduced rate of growth in this country. In the calendar year 1976, the gross domestic product increased by 3. 1 per cent. But in calendar year 1977, once the public investment and other government expenditure cuts were really under way, the rate of growth of the real gross domestic product dropped back to 0.6 per cent. If one looks at the figures concerning the gross nonfarm product, which is often taken as the better indicator of how a government is performing, one will see that in 1976 it increased by 4.8 per cent, but in 1977 it increased by only 1.5 per cent. As I say, a number of factors were involved in that, but a very important factor was the substantial slashing of the rate of growth of government expenditure, particularly in the public investment area. A lot of that expenditure normally goes into the private area because it relates to heavy capital works involving private contractors, building materials and so on- the sort of work which stimulates a lot of the private sector in the economy. Severe cutbacks in that area lead to a very substantially reduced level of demand overall in the economy. 
Our criticisms of the Government's expenditure policies are addressed not only to the overall level but also to the kinds of priorities of this Government. In the Budget of August last year various regressive priorities were demonstrated by the Government's expenditure program. For instance, the outlays on urban and regional development were reduced from $408m in 1975-76 to $168m in 1977-78. This is an area which the Labor Party regards as being particularly important. This enormous cutback, in our view, represents perverted priorities on the part of the Fraser Government. The unemployment benefits area is another area where the Government has acted not to reduce the actual rates but to reduce the rate of entitlement by making payments in arrears rather than in advance. The Government has substantially brought about a delay in the payment of unemployment benefits to people and, as a result, brought about substantial misery. We also had the situation where an additional $2. 2m in last year's Budget was paid to the well-off private schools at a time when the overall level of expenditure on education was being kept constant. We have also had at that time a reduction in the Aboriginal advancement program- from $194m in 1975-76 to $176m in 1977-78. 
I mention those only as examples of the kinds of Budget priorities which the Government had in its last Budget. The Appropriation Bills which are now before us continue those sorts of cutbacks in areas which we regard as important. For instance, in the area of Aboriginal affairs one finds that the Government has made savings on the expenditure on assistance to missions of 8 per cent. Honourable members will note that a document has been distributed setting out the savings that the Government has made this financial year. We are supposed to believe that the savings are something which we should regard as being extra good. There are over $200m worth of these so-called savings, but in fact a lot of these savings are in areas such as Aboriginal affairs, which I have already mentioned. For instance, there was a reduction of 73 per cent in the operating expenses of the secretariat for the National Aboriginal Conference. In the field of education there has been a reduction of $ 1 7.7m in tertiary scholarships- in other words, a cut of over 10 per cent. 
In the area of employment and industrial relations one finds, incredibly, a cutback in the amount of money for apprenticeship training of over $4m. Is this something that the Parliament should regard as good? At a time when we have massive unemployment- in fact, the teenage unemployment rate is over 20 per cent- and at a time when we have a generally acknowledged shortage of skilled tradesmen, a shortage which will become horrific should this economy ever get back to something like normal rates of activity, we have the Government boasting about savings of $4m-plus on expenditure concerning apprentices. We regard that as an absolutely perverted priority. I draw the attention of the House to the statements made in the OECD's report regarding manpower policies in this country. The OECD said that we do a lot less than just about any other member of the OECD. That is something we all knew anyway, but it is good to see that the OECD's report, which is so heavily edited by the Treasury, at least kept in that part. Also one notes that the relocation assistance provided by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has been cut by $470,000 or 37 per cent. The relocation assistance scheme is something which was boasted about by the Government as something which would do great things for structural adjustment. In fact, it is a program which clearly is not working. 
Under the heading of social security, one sees that a grant to organisations under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act has been cut almost by half- from $5.6m to $2.9m. Is this something about which we should be pleased? On the other hand, the act of grace payments to the Fraser Island mining companies- not the workers but the companies working on Fraser Island before sand mining was stopped- have been increased by $2m to $4.8m. So on the one hand we have cutbacks of over $2m in the social security area under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act and on the other there is an increase of $2m in the payments to the Fraser Island companies. In our view, those are totally perverted priorities. In the area of construction, expenditure on buildings and works has been cut by a net $5.1m. One other area which is worth mentioning is the area of health. Grants to the States for the expansion and development of community health centres have been cut by $9.7m or 12 per cent. All these represent, to us, very poor savings indeed. They may be something which the Government thinks is good as regards keeping the Budget deficit down, but they are savings in area which are very important to people on this side of the House and savings which we feel are not in the best interests of the economy, either in terms of the priorities used or the overall level of expenditure. 
So much for the general level of government expenditure. This brings us from the aspect of the effect of government expenditure cuts to the failure of the Budget strategy. There is absolutely no doubt that this Government's Budget strategy has failed. There is no way in which any person can stand up and say with integrity that the Government's Budget strategy is working, because quite clearly it is not. The Government, in its Budget, sought in respect of output to have a rate of growth of 4.1 per cent in gross non-farm product over the course of this financial year. In Statement No. 2 of the Budget Papers it is stated:  . . . from June quarter 1977 to June quarter 1978 nonfarm product is expected to grow by over 4 per cent, compared with one per cent from June quarter 1976 to June quarter 1977. It is of course the rate of growth over the course of the year which influences the prospective trend from now on in such other elements in the outlook as employment and unemployment. 
It is, of course, quite true that the rate of growth does have a very important bearing on what happens to employment and unemployment. The fact is that the rate of growth has been nothing like 4.1 per cent. In fact, the rate of growth in non-farm product in the first half of the financial year- from the June quarter of 1977 to the December quarter of that year- was minus 0.6 per cent. This financial year we are supposed to have a 4 per cent growth; in fact, we have had a minus 0.6 per cent growth so far, with half the year gone. How can we possibly get the Budget strategy to work in respect of output from now on? Quite clearly, we will be struggling even to make the one per cent increase attained last year. Of course, honourable members will be aware that in the December quarter there was in fact a decline of 1.3 per cent. If anything like that sort of trend continues the Budget strategy will be very substantially off the mark. 
Debate interrupted. 
I am happy to continue but I was not aware that the motion for the adjournment was to be negatived. The Budget strategy certainly will not be borne out in employment policy. This follows substantially from the fact that the output figure will be so hopelessly below target. The employment strategy in the Budget called for an increase of 2 per cent in the level of employment through the year from June 1977 to June 1978. A 2 per cent increase would equal something like 120,000 extra jobs. It is absolutely without doubt that there will be no such increase. The employment figures in respect of the employed labour force from May 1977 to February 1978, which are the latest figures one can get for this financial year, have declined by 100,000 or 1.7 per cent. The number of employed wage and salary earners declined by 22,000 from June 1977 to February 1978. Quite clearly in that area there is no possible hope of the Budget strategy of a 2 per cent increase in employment being borne out. It looks quite likely that in fact not only will there be no increase but in the course of the year there will be a substantial decrease. That part of the Budget strategy is hopelessly misplaced. 
In this respect I draw the attention of the House to a table contained in the  Economist  of 29 April which compares the rates of increase or decrease in unemployment for various countries in the Western world. The table includes 
Australia. I regret to say that Australia is the second worst of all the countries listed in our employment performance in the last year. The figures show that in the United States the percentage of population unemployed in the course of the last year fell by 1 .3 per cent; in Holland the unemployment rate remained stable; in West Germany it increased by 0. 1 per cent; in Japan it increased by 0.2 per cent; in France it increased by 0.3 per cent; in Britain it increased by 0.3 per cent; in Canada it increased by 0.4 per cent; in Sweden it increased by 0.4 per cent; in Belgium it increased by 0.9 percent; in Spain it increased by one per cent; in Australia it increased by 1.2 per cent; and in Italy it increased by 1.4 per cent. Only strife-torn Italy in the table of developed western countries had a worse performance than we did in employment in the course of the last year. That is something that really bears thinking about. 
Our unemployment is not something that is being shared by most other countries. Most countries are finding it difficult to retain their levels of employment. That is for certain. The table shows that only one country had a worse performance than we did in the last year. The United States had an increase of three and a half million jobs in the last 12 months. I ask honourable members to compare that figure with what has happened in this country. Also in relation to the deficit it is clear that the Government will not achieve its objective, despite the fact that it is continuing to cut back and to make savings which we think are ill-advised. The Budget deficit of $2.2 billion is already considered by the Government as being unlikely to be attained. In fact that Budget deficit will blow out several hundred million of dollars from the $2.2 billion. The Treasurer said that this is because of various factors. He mentions customs duty revenue being less because of a lower volume of imports than was expected and also the level of inflation being less than expected. Therefore incomes are lower and less money is being received from income tax payments. What the Treasurer does not mention- this is an important factor in the blowing out of the deficit- is the fact that the recession being so much more severe than was estimated by the Government, means that the revenue attained by the Government and the expenses which it has in respect of unemployment are much higher than the amount budgeted. 
It is quite clear that the total amount of unemployment benefits will be far and above what was estimated. It will be something like $160m more than the estimate. Also, less income tax will be paid simply because fewer people were employed than was expected. Also company tax payments will be lower because of the recession. With two quarterly payments made, only 42 per cent of the estimated $2.9 billion company tax has so far been collected. It appears that the total amount of company tax will be less than was budgeted for. This is what one would expect, given the much poorer performance of the economy than was anticipated in the Budget. Of course, having the Budget deficit blow out in this way because of a recession is the worst possible way in which to have an increased Budget deficit. If a Budget deficit is increased by taking measures to offset unemployment, hopefully the greater level of activity will stimulate the economy. There will be more revenue and the short term increase in the level of the deficit will be wiped out by a higher level of activity later on. 
What is happening here is quite the reverse. The Government is cutting government expenditure and thereby creating a further recession which in turn has the effect of increasing the deficit. So we are in a bind which this Government will find it difficult to break out of. Overall, in respect of these major aspects, the Budget strategy can be said to have clearly failed. Only one area can be pointed to as being a real success and that is in reducing inflation. Even there one must have some savers. The Budget estimate for inflation was that by the June quarter of 1978 the rate would be down to two per cent or two and a half per cent. Clearly, already on the figure for the March quarter, the rate has been much below that at 1.3 per cent. This has been achieved partly by some special factors in food prices but also importantly through the squeezing of profit margins. The squeezing of profit margins has not come through increased wage payments- real wages are being cut back- but rather by recession. Recession reduces the level of economic activity, increases fixed costs as a proportion of units of output and therefore reduces profit margins. 
If we look at the gross operating surplus of companies as a proportion of gross non-farm product over the last year and a half we can see that the level of 12.9 per cent for profit shares over the September and December quarters of 1976 and the March quarter of 1977 has dropped back to 12.2 per cent in the June 1977 quarter, to 12.7 per cent in the September quarter and to 12.4 per cent in the December quarter. Clearly in 1977 a squeezing of profit margins has been brought about by a recession as employers have been forced to absorb cost increases because of the poor level of demand. This has had its pay-off in a sense in the inflation rate, but the pay-off has been bought at enormous cost. The success the Government has had with inflation has been bought at the cost of total failure of output strategy and employment policy. Substantial costs have been incurred to pay for any gains which have been achieved in inflation. 
In respect of the absorption of costs, I draw the attention of the House to a table which appears on page 22 of the survey of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which shows that in the first half of 1977 the price of imported materials used in the manufacturing industry in this country rose by 32 per cent. That increase, of course, was directly attributable to the devaluation of November 1976. Quite clearly a devaluation of that order has substantial price and inflationary effects. These have not shown up to the extent that most observers thought they would because, as I have already mentioned, of their absorption by employers in their profit margin and the inability of employers to pass on devaluation effects in a state of recession. In a sense they are still in the system. As soon as the level of activity picks up companies will be seeking to pass on those increases to restore their profit margins. So there is in the system this sort of latent inflationary impetus which will keep inflation from reducing, in our view, much below the present levels. 
Apart from cuts in the level of government expenditure another factor which has been assisting the recession has been the Government 's monetary policy which also has been very restrictive. The Budget estimate was for an increase of 8 per cent to 10 per cent in the money supply but in fact the increase over the last 12 months has been only 6 per cent. It was deliberately kept restrictive, in our view, to contain the inflationary effect of devaluation and it was successful in doing that, but as I have already mentioned we paid the price in the areas of employment and output. Apart from inflation the only other aspect of the economy that offers any joy at present is the area of private investment, and that certainly has increased rapidly since mid- 1977, but there again one must bear in mind that this was to be expected because with the 40 per cent rate of the investment allowance being chopped back to 20 per cent in the middle of this year there is every incentive now for employers to utilise the investment allowance. So one would expect private investment to be going ahead at a decent rate at this time even though the level of economic activity is so low. But of course what is happening, as I have mentioned many times previously, is that the investment is going mainly into labour saving devices and industry is becoming much more capital intensive at a time when there is a massive unemployment problem. This in turn is accentuating the unemployment problem. 
As I have mentioned previously- I will not go into details again- the Secretary of the OECD has warned that a country should be very careful about tax systems which have a bias against the use of labour. Our tax system certainly has a very strong bias against the use of labour both through the investment allowance which encourages companies to become more capital intensive and through the high payroll tax which discourages them from employing workers. The rest of the indicators show no joy whatever. The Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd index shows that industrial production is at the same level in January 1978, seasonally adjusted, as it was in November 1975 and that it just got back to that level with a slight increase in the last couple of months before January 1978. So there is absolutely no increase in the level of activity from the time this Government seized office in November 1975. 
Since January 1978 we have had further figures on production from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. These show that for the March quarter there was a decline in production in 1 8 of the 34 items which the Bureau monitors month by month. This indicates that production is anything but booming at the present time. Retail sales have done no more than keep up with the rate of inflation plus the rate of the increase in population, so there is no growth in retail sales. The building industry in respect of housing has been in particular trouble for a long time. The total number of approvals for new dwellings fell by 8.8 per cent seasonally adjusted for the March quarter of this year and compared with the March quarter for the previous year approvals were down by 13.3 per cent. Not only has the Budget strategy for 1977-78 clearly failed but also there are few signs of any substantial pick up in activity in 1978-79. 
I would like quickly to mention something in regard to the international economy because something which has not been talked about very much in this House which is tremendously important to this country is what is happening to the international economy. The Australian Government's attitude towards what is happening does it anything but credit, in our view. The nature of the world economy debate is on these lines: The growing world unemployment has caused alarm in many areas. More than 16 million people are unemployed in OECD member countries at the present time and the number is increasing. This has been brought about by countries deflating their currencies to reduce inflation and to overcome their balance of payments deficit. Practically all Western countries, with a few notable exceptions, are running substantial balance of payments deficits to offset the fact that the Arab countries, and in particular the member countries of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, are running substantial balance of payment surpluses. 
The OECD and the International Monetary Fund, which are responsible international economic bodies, are trying to devise a world strategy for recovery, and they have come up with two forms of strategy. Firstly there was the locomotive strategy, which envisaged the three major economies in the Western world- the United States of America, West Germany and Japanregenerating their economies and bringing the rest of the world along after them because they could more easily regenerate their economies than the rest of the world, which had greater problems in respect of their balance of payments and so on. Secondly, it was thought that perhaps to rely on the activities of the major economies would not be sufficient, and the convoy theory was developed- the theory that not only should we have those major economies being reflated and getting world activity going, but that all countries to the best of their ability should reflate so that we would all move forward together. I must say, this makes a lot of sense to me. I heartily endorse that theory. 
That is not something which the Australian Government has done. West Germany and, to a lesser extent, Japan, have been the problem. They have refused to go along with this theory. They have refused to reflate their economies sufficiently and so reduce their balance of payments surpluses. During the course of this year a lot of international pressure has been brought to bear on West Germany and, to a lesser extent, on Japan to regenerate their economies and to go along with the rest of the world in providing some semblance of united economic strategy, so that we could all reflate back towards something like normal levels of activity and reduce unemployment levels. 
The United States has played a good role in this respect. At the expense of a falling dollar, it has stimulated its economy quite enormously. Although that has had a bad effect on the balance of payments, the United States has let the dollar devalue, forcing further revaluations of the German mark and the Japanese yen, reducing the export capacity of those countries and therefore reducing their surpluses and allowing the rest of the world a better chance to export. This policy on the part of the United States, which is self-sacrificing in some respects- in respect of the value of the dollar- is a goodneighbour policy in respect of the rest of the world. All this seems to be quite a sound strategy. 
Australia would benefit if the rest of the world could have a higher level of economic activity, which is what the United States, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the International Monetary Fund have been trying to achieve. If Japan were operating at a much higher level of activity, it clearly would buy more of our goods. We have already seen the enormous problem we face in respect of our exports of coal and iron ore, where not only the volumes but also the prices of our exports of those commodities are being reduced. So Australia 's economic interests are very much tied to a reflation- a regeneration- of economic activity in the rest of the world. 
What has been Australia's response? It has been pathetic. Australia has attacked the United States policy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  did that at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting earlier this year and criticised it for being inflationary. We are in no position to criticise the United States. It has created nine million jobs in the past three years. In Australia no more jobs at all have been created in the past  Vh  years of this Government. This Government, the Fraser Government, supported West Germany in its refusal to reflate. Is that something of which we should be proud? West Germany is being the bad neighbour of the Western world at the present time, and Australia is the only country which is strongly supporting it. At the Mexico City meeting of the International Monetary Fund the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was the strongest supporter of West Germany. That is totally against Australia's interests and is totally against our export interest. He is selling the farmers down the drain with that sort of policy. The European Economic Community is not going to buy more goods from us if the level of activity does not pick up. It is madness to expect otherwise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLean)  adjourned. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 11 April 1978: 
Has any study been made of the effect on investment and employment of the investment allowance; if so, what were the results of the research. 
-The four Bills that are now before us in this cognate debate affect estate duty and gift duty. They have essentially two purposes. One is to abolish both estate and gift duties on property passing to a member of a family as from 21 November 1977. The second purpose is to abolish estate and gift duty entirely as from 1 July 1979. In respect of the abolition from 2 1 November, property passing to members of a family has been denned to include a widow or widower, a child, a grandchild, a parent or a grandparent of that person. 
The Opposition does not support these Bills. I propose to move an amendment to the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill. This amendment in fact expresses our attitude on each of the four Bills. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced '. 
Before going to the substance of that amendment, I shall briefly sketch the background of both taxes. The States have levied death duties since the colonial days in the last century. The Federal Government introduced estate duty in 1914, which was one year before income tax was introduced in this country. Gift duty has operated since 1941. Thus for many years a dual system of death duties has operated, being levied by both the States and the Federal Government. That has been a major difficulty with the system. I will elaborate on that difficulty at a later stage. 
The rationale for such taxes is basically the need for equity in the tax system. It is incredibly ironic that this debate is taking place one day after we have had a debate on the closing of loopholes in the Income Tax Assessment Act. During that debate honourable member after honourable member on the Government side of the chamber got up and beat his breast about the problem he was having balancing the principle of equity with the principle of nonretrospectivity. Most of them tended to come down on the side of supporting the principle of equity, as they showed by their vote. It is amazing that one day later we are debating a Bill which totally disregards the principle of equity in the tax system- the principle which honourable members opposite seemed to be so keen to support only yesterday. 
I believe that the need for equity in the tax system is something to which everyone would subscribe, at least initially. If we are to have equity in the tax system we need direct taxation based on the capacity of people to pay. Any other form of direct taxation which ignores the capacity to pay is, on the face of it, thoroughly inequitable. But in our view the capacity to pay must depend not only on income but also on other factors, such as capital. I shall give a simple example to illustrate my point. If there are two people with the same income and one of them has a magnificent house left to him and the other has no house and has to pay rent, there is absolutely no doubt who is in the better financial situation and who has the greater capacity to pay. In that situation it seems to us axiomatic that if we are to have equity in the tax system we must take account of not only income but also the capital resources of people. Estate and gift duties ensure, at least in theory, that capital is taxed at least each generation. This form of taxation probably does this less satisfactorily than some other taxes on capital may do, but at least we are assured in theory as distinct from practice that each generation estates will be taxed and therefore capital will be taxed by an estate duty. 
As I have mentioned, there are other possible forms of tax on capital which would serve a similar purpose. A wealth or net worth tax is one such option. A wealth or net worth tax is a tax on the total amount of assets of people- the net assets. It applies in a number of countries. Clearly such a tax, which is levied annually, is a tax which takes into account the wealth, assets and capital of people. Another form of capital tax is a capital gains tax, which taxes the increments to capital which accrue year by year but which usually are not taxed until those gains are realised on the sale of an asset. Neither of these alternative forms of capital taxes apply in this country. Nominally under section 26 (a) and section 26AAA of the Income Tax Assessment Act we have some possibility of taxing capital gains. However, in fact neither of these sections has any real impact on taxation on capital gains. Section 26 (a) has been rendered almost useless by the High Court and section 26AAA, which was introduced by the Labor Government to ensure at least short term capital gains were taxed, is relatively easily avoided. So one can say that capital gains taxation does not exist in this country. Therefore, we have neither of the other two possible alternatives to taxes on death- the wealth tax and the capital gains tax. 
It is interesting to compare the situation in this country in regard to taxation on capital with that applying in other countries. I refer the House to Treasury Taxation Paper No. 1 1 dated December 1974. At page 3 of that paper, which deals with State and gift duty, under the heading 'Justification for the Taxes' the following appears: 
New Zealand and Ireland, like Australia, have both estate duties and income tax, but no other general taxes on capital or wealth. The United States and all Western European countries other than Ireland not only levy income tax and estate duty, but also either capital gains taxes or net worth taxes (or in many cases both). If Australia had no death duties (it is often said- though rarely by persons concerned with the operation and principles of the tax system as a whole- that they should be abolished) and did not impose any other form of capital tax, Australia would be in an exceptional position on this aspect of capacity to pay. It would be the only advanced Western country levying no other direct tax apart from income tax. 
That is the situation in which this country will be in a very short time from now. This Government is doing what the Treasury in 1974 anticipated could never really happen- move to abolish entirely estate and gift duties in this country thereby leaving us in the situation which it mentioned would be the case if that were to happen. We will be the only advanced Western country levying no other direct tax apart from income tax. That is a rather remarkable situation. It means that in respect of taxation we are the most reactionary country in the Western world, as indeed we are in so many other aspects. Therefore, I suppose it is not particularly surprising that taxation is just one other area in which we are proving ourselves to be the most right-wing country in the Western world. 
One country that was not mentioned was Canada. In Canada estate and gift duties applied up until 1972. As a result of a very intensive inquiry by a royal commission into the whole taxation system in that country those duties were abolished. At the same time as it abolished estate and gift duty it brought in a comprehensive capital gains tax. In other words, it took away one form of tax on capital but it made quite sure that at the same time it brought in another form of tax on capital. Also at the same time as the Federal Government in Canada took away estate duties, the provinces came in to fill the vacuum. I understand that almost all the provinces in Canada now levy estate and gift duties. So in that country both systems operate, that is, capital gains tax, and estate and gift duties at the province level. 
As I say, Australia will have the least equitable tax system of any comparable Western country. This is a serious matter, not only from the aspect of equity in the tax system but also from the aspect of wealth distribution in this country. The available evidence shows wealth distribution to be very unequal, quite contrary to the myth of substantial equality which one hears about from time to time. It is often put about that wealth distribution in Australia is far more equal than in other countries. That may be the case. It is difficult to get comparative data. However, what is true from the data available is that there are very substantial inequalities of wealth distribution in Australia. For some evidence in this regard I refer to a paper by  Mr C.  W. Junor from the Department of Economics at the University of New South Wales, entitled 'Poverty and Income Distribution in Australia'. This paper is contained in a book entitled  Readings in Economics  published by the Economics Teachers Association of New South Wales. In this paper  Mr Junor  refers to the available evidence of wealth distribution in Australia and points out that although there is no official evidence, a couple of surveys are available. These surveys relate to the years 1966-67 and 1967-68. The earlier survey, which is a study done by Messrs Podder and Kakwani shows that the bottom 50 per cent of families in Australia own 15.5 per cent of total net wealth and the top 10 per cent of families own 36.5 per cent of total net wealth. The top 1 per cent own 9.3 per cent of total net wealth. That shows a considerable unequal distribution of wealth in this country. 
The survey for the year 1967-68 showed a much wider disparity. These two surveys were by different people using different techniques. I am not suggesting that the change occurs in one country. The second survey showed that the bottom 50 per cent of persons in Australia owned 8.8 per cent of the total net wealth, the top 10 per cent owned 56. 1 per cent and the top 1 per cent owned 2 1.5 per cent. That second survey showed a much greater inequality of wealth distribution than the previous one. If one looks at both one must concede there is indeed a substantial inequality of wealth distribution in this country. 
At least in theory, estate and death duties play some role in restricting the growth of inequality of wealth distribution. The abolition of these taxes and their non-replacement by any other tax on capital, which is what is contemplated by this Government, will thus accentuate wealth inequalities in our community which, as I have shown, are already very considerable. It makes absolute nonsense of the equality of opportunity concept which we hear spoken about from time to time by honourable members opposite. How can one possibly have equality of opportunity when one has massive inequalities of wealth distribution in Australia? It is absurd to suggest that there is equality of opportunity when one has such enormous disparities of wealth. Therefore, the Labor Party insists that a society concerned with equity in both the tax system and the distribution of wealth must support the application of some form of tax on capital. By this we do not mean that the ordinary people should pay tax on their small capital accumulations but that the wealthy should pay by estate or gift duties, or by some other form of tax on capital. 
Having said that, I must say that it is true that there are many defects in the estate and gift duty system as it is operated in this country. I shall refer to some of those defects. The dual system of death duties through both State and Federal governments being in the field has posed considerable problems, firstly, in the substantial incidence of the tax, particularly at not very high levels of estate. State taxes have been much heavier than the Federal tax. This has meant that people with relatively low estates have had to pay substantial levels of estate duty. When one reaches the level of something like $100,000 the disparity becomes quite enormous. On an estate in New South Wales valued at $100,000 the State duty paid where the property passed to a child would be $15,500. The Federal tax would be $4,205. From that one example it is clear that there is a very heavy disparity between the level of State and Federal taxes. Secondly, the incidence of the tax as it operates under the dual system is very uneven. People in one State pay much higher levels of tax than do people in another, while people in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are much better off because they pay only the Federal tax. This brings about some inequity when there are such enormous disparities in the levels of tax being applied. 
The dual system is less of a problem as the States withdraw from the field. As from this year, all States have abolished probate on property passing to a surviving spouse. Victoria has abolished it where the estate passes to the children of the deceased, Queensland has abolished probate altogether, Victoria and New South Wales have promised to abolish it altogether, so quite clearly the States are deserting the field rapidly and the problems involved in the operation of the dual system are therefore being solved. When the Senate committee of inquiry into death duties conducted its inquiries in 1973 it found many problems resulting from the operation of the dual system but it did not say that we should abolish the tax. Instead it said that there should be a unified system of estate and gift duties with the revenue going to the States. It suggested that the Commonwealth could raise the tax for the States. This is passe now since the concept of a single system is applicable now that the States are deserting the field. 
The second defect talked about is the nonadjustment of rates of duty over the years and that having created substantial hardship. The Opposition agrees that it is wrong that there has been no adjustment of the rates of estate and gift duties since 1941. That is an extraordinarily long time for there to have been no adjustment of the rates of tax particularly when during that period we have had inflation of the order of 600 per cent. The rates of tax applying at the moment are 3 per cent on valuations up to $20,000 increasing to 6 per cent at $40,000, 26 per cent at $240,000 to 27.9 per cent on $lm and above. The rates of tax have been at that level since 1941 and that is absurd. It has created a major problem in respect of the tax. However, this has been offset somewhat by exemptions which have been increased. For instance, the basic exemption now when property passes to a close relative such as a spouse, child or grandchild is $40,000 or $48,000 in the case of a primary producer's estate. Where the property passes to a person other than a close relative the exemption is $24,000 for a primary producer's estate or $20,000 for any other estate. 
Although these exemptions prevent small estates from being taxed they do not relieve the tax burden on large estates because the exemption is gradually phased out at the rate of $2 for each additional $8 of the estate. 
In addition to these exemptions there is a further deduction of $50,000 for a spouse which means that an estate left to a spouse is not assessed for Federal duty unless it is valued at over $90,000 or $98,000 in respect of a primary producer's estate. That is a fairly substantial exemption. If the property is jointly owned and one of the married partners dies and if the estate is assessed for Federal estate duty, an exemption of $90,000 means that they must have had a reasonably substantial property between them. So although non-adjustment of the rates has been unfair, given the degree of inflation that has occurred since 1941, the increased exemptions have substantially offset its worst aspects although we still contend that the nonadjustment of the rates has been wrong and should be corrected. 
It is interesting to note that in 1976-77, although 111,000 persons died, because of the operation of the exemptions only 13,836 estates were liable for estate duty; that is, 12 and a half per cent or one in every eight of estates paid death duty. Most people do not appreciate this incidence of Federal estate duty. There is in the community a general dislike of all taxes and a general feeling among people that they do not like their estates being taxed when they die. Many people think that their estates will be liable for such taxation but in fact their estates never will be because only 12V4 per cent or one in every eight of estates is assessed for such duty. That being the case, the fear in the community of this tax is extraordinarily ill-based in our view. The defect involved in the non-adjustment of the rates for inflation is correctable. It is not really a reason for total abolition but it is a reason for correcting that nonadjustment. 
A third defect in the tax system as it has operated is that the tax has been massively avoided. It has been avoided principally through the loopholes in respect of gifts and trusts. Gifts up to $10,000 in any three years are tax free. That is a massive loophole. It means that by giving away $10,000 every 18 months a person can give away over $ 1 00,000 of estate over a 1 5-year period. That is a substantial defect in the system. It enables massive avoidance to take place. The other principal means of avoidance is the trust. It is probably the major means of avoiding estate duty. By this means a person divests himself of his assets tax free by making them over to a family trust. He nominates a trustee to hold the resulting income and capital growth in trust for certain beneficiaries- usually his wife, children, grandchildren and so on. By this simple means a person can greatly reduce his estate duty, and for that matter income tax because the income from the property passes to the trust and then to the beneficiaries and therefore attracts a lower marginal rate of tax than that otherwise applicable to the person who set up the trust. Yet the person who sets up the trust and avoids both estate and income taxes can retain control over the use of those assets while he is alive. 
Trust establishment has been an enormous business in this country in recent years. We have had a great boom in trustee companies which assist in the establishment of trusts and operate them. The establishment of trusts has been a key feature in the process of avoidance of estate duty and we have had the enormous development of what is euphemistically termed estate planning. There have been great seminars held on it and there have been people offering advice on estate planning which is just a euphemism for avoidance of estate duty. This is not an option for most people. It is not an option for wage and salary earners. It is an option only for people who have substantial assets which they can place in trusts. It is not an option which is available to the ordinary wage and salary earner in this country. 
It is extremely interesting to note, and as this has been mentioned in the past I will not go into details at this stage, that the operation of trusts as a means of tax avoidance occurs with the imprimatur of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Both of these gentlemen acknoledged during the last election campaign that they have family trusts; so we have right at the top of the political tree in this country people, including also the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  who have family trusts which exist to avoid income tax and estate duty. They are unrepentant about them and do not hide their light under a bushel. In an interview on the radio program  PM  last year the Prime Minister said: 
I think it is entirely appropriate for people to have family trusts. 
Later he was asked: 
Do you have any family trusts? 
He replied: 
Oh, yes, I do. They are designed to benefit the family and to keep the farm together. 
Later on he was asked: 

 Mr Prime Minister, do your private family companies and private family trusts have the effect of lowering the rate of income tax that you pay? 
The Prime Minister's answer was: 
Family trusts are designed to help keep the family's assets together. Yes. 
That seems to be an understated way of agreeing with the question: 'Do your trusts enable you to pay less tax?' So there we have it: Right at the top of the political tree in this country, tax avoidance is being okayed by the Prime Minister and by his  Deputy  who has also acknowledged that he had such trusts at that time. 
The fourth defect in the system relates to the burden on primary producers. Rural properties are said to be particularly badly affected because such properties are a family business. If the persons to whom a farm is left have to pay estate duty, they may be forced to sell the farm and so lose their business. It is also said that primary producers bear a disproportionate burden of estate duty. In relation to these matters we say that substantial concessions apply to rural properties. I have mentioned some of them already. In addition, there is a rebate of 50 per cent of duty where an estate is valued at less than $140,000. This amount reduces to zero on estates up to $150,000. 
Estate duty on small rural properties is not high. Most rural properties are valued at below $140,000. Figures that I have obtained from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics show that in respect of the beef, sheep and wheat industries, in 1975-76, 59.5 per cent of farms, taking into account all of the capital involved in the farm operation, were valued at below $140,000. In the dairy industry, 63.7 per cent of farms had capital worth less than $140,000. In the horticulture industry 77.8 per cent of farms had capital worth less than $120,000. It should also be mentioned that, in respect of rural estates worth $140,000, where the estate is left to a spouse the duty payable is only $ 1 ,900 and where it is left to a child the duty payable is $7,762. So, for the vast majority of rural properties- that is, those with a value of less than $140,000 or so- a minimal amount of estate duty is paid. 
Certainly the duties are not a great burden for the acquisition of such a substantial property. Further evidence from taxation statistics for 1975-76 shows that the total assessed estates of that order were 13,447, of which 20 per cent or 2,732 were primary producer estates. Of these 2,732 rural estates, 76.6 per cent has a net value of under $140,000. The average duty assessed for these estates was only $2,400. One thousand five hundred and eighty-six or 58 per cent of rural estates had a net value of less than $100,000. The average duty per estate was only $1,160. Quite clearly, for small and medium sized farms, estate duties are not a substantial problem. The belief by many primary producers that they are a substantial problem is just not properly based. They are thinking of State probate duties as well as Federal estate duty. As I have said, the State probate duty has been much heavier in its incidence than the Federal duty. The incidence of Federal duty alone is not at all high on small and medium sized farms. Also the reason why primary producers' estates are of a much higher proportion of the total estates than primary producers are of the total population is that they have higher levels of assets. The farmer whose father leaves him the family farm worth, say, $150,000 is in a much better position than a person who is left little or nothing. 
Moving past the various difficulties in relation to the defects, we find that the operation of these taxes has been very unsatisfactory from almost all points of view. But the defects are largely correctable. They do not constitute a case for total abolition of any tax on capital. But there are other arguments for saying that a tax on capital should apply. No reason was given by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his second reading speech, for abolishing estate and gift duty duties. To give no reason whatever for doing so is to be extraordinarily contemptuous of the Parliament. Gift duty is an important means of ensuring equity in the system because gifts which are not taxed are a means of avoiding income tax. Estate duty is a means of taxing estates of persons who have acquired wealth through taxation evasion and avoidance. So one gets them in the end through estate duty. The abolition of the estate duty will also do nothing to attack basic problems such as unemployment and inflation. We will still have those problems. In fact they will be made worse because the $98m involved will add to the Budget deficit and therefore, in the logic of the Government, make the battle against inflation even worse. It certainly does nothing to assist it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) On what date did the savings and trading banks reduce interest rates on housing loans by half a percent. 
What proportion of loans for housing will actually have their interest rates reduced by half a percent and what proportion will have the repayment period reduced. 
What proportion of total lending for housing is from (a) savings banks, (b) trading banks, (c) building societies, (d) life offices, (e) finance companies, (f) other private sector institutional lenders and (g) Defence Service Homes and other Government schemes. 
Which institutions lending for housing other than savings and trading banks have decided to reduce interest rates and when will these reductions become operative. 
-The Bills before the House do three basic things. Firstly, they establish the States' tax sharing entitlement for the year 1977-78 in money terms. Secondly, they prescribe for the States in future years to receive a fixed proportion of the previous year's personal income tax collections. Thirdly, they provide for periodic reviews of the relative proportion of the total State share of the income tax revenue to be paid to each State. All this is part of the so-called new federalism which is an absurdly grand tide for what is in reality a rather shabby restructuring of Federal-State financial relationships. Fraser federalism is a facade. Launched as a means of reducing the FederalState financial conflict, it is clear now that it is one of the methods which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  adopted for his doctrinaire attack on the public sector. The new federalism is a gigantic confidence trick. Rather than guaranteeing the States a steady and assured income, it guarantees access only to an uncertain and variable source for less than half the total funds the States receive. This income falls short of the amount they would have received in 1976-77 under the Whitlam formula. It is expected to fall short again in 1979-80. 
There is no provision in the legislation which we are debating for re-negotiation of the income tax sharing arrangements in the light of changes to the income tax rates or other taxation arrangements in the way the Commonwealth originally promised. Furthermore, real levels of Commonwealth funding for the States are being reduced despite the fact that their governmental responsibilities are being increased by the transfer to them of functions previously held by the Commonwealth Government. I shall describe these points more fully. The new arrangements, if anything, have tended to increase the Commonwealth Government's power and to reduce the bargaining capacity of the States. 
The States tax sharing entitlements for future years are to be 39.87 per cent of the preceding year's net personal income tax collections. For 1977-78 this entitles them to $4,336m. However, these general purpose revenue funds are only about 40 per cent of Commonwealth payments to State governments. The remaining 60 per cent of those payments is made up of specific purpose payments and Loan Council allocations over which the Commonwealth has control. Therefore, though the arrangements contained in this Bill guarantee the States a fixed share of the previous year's income tax collections they do not in any sense guarantee their income from the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth can choose at will to reduce or to increase its specific purpose payments. In fact what it has done over the previous two and a half years of course is to reduce it specific purpose payments. As well, the States income tax sharing receipts will be changed whenever the Commonwealth changes taxation policy. The States are already well aware of this through the effects of the introduction of tax indexation. 
The Government is reported to be considering introducing a further health insurance levy of 1 per cent to reduce the cost to the Government of the provision of hospital and medical services. Though this would be simply a one per cent increase in taxation, it would not be an increase under the Commonwealth definition of tax receipts and the States would not be eligible for a share of it. Similarly, if the Commonwealth chose to increase tax revenue by raising indirect taxes the importance of personal income tax receipts as a proportion of total tax revenue could be significantly reduced without the States receiving an offsetting increase in their proportion of personal income tax. Professor Russell Mathews, the Director of the Australian National University Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations, said of the new arrangements in the 1 975 report of his Centre: 
The Commonwealth is still in a position to control the total amount of revenue which will be made available to the States and local authorities and in some ways its position has even been enhanced. After the  ititial  period the States will bear the risks of fluctuating revenue yields. 
The States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill makes immutable the States' share of 39.87 per cent of the previous year's personal income tax receipts. This is despite the fact that the Commonwealth agreed that stage one of the personal income tax sharing arrangements would include provision for a review of the arrangements whenever there were changes in the Commonwealth tax legislation which have significant effects on the States ' entitlements. That point was made at 9 (b) of the 35 points of understanding in regard to personal income tax sharing which were agreed between the Commonwealth and the States in 1976. 
Why then, in the light of that agreement, is there no provision for this review in this legislation? What is the point of including a fixed share of personal income tax receipts in the legislation unless the Commonwealth expects to be able to maintain this figure for several years? If the figure were to last for only one year this could be stated. This inflexibility may well contribute to worsening the States' position. The problem is well illustrated by what happened in 1976-77. In that year the States' entitlement under the tax sharing arrangements was less than it would have been if the Whitlam formula had been applied. 
It is right. Fortunately for the States the Commonwealth had agreed to guarantee that their entitlements would not fall below the level they would have received if that formula were still in operation. This may well occur again in 1979-80, the last year in which the guarantee applying to the formula for general revenue grants still applies. This possibility arises due to the fall-off in personal income tax receipts as a result of the continued recession, the introduction of partial tax indexation and the tax cuts which will be fully operative next financial year. It illustrates well the inadequacy of the new stage one arrangements. 
The most important criticism which must be made of the new federalism proposals is that they are simply a cloak for reducing total funds allocated to the States, which have increased from $8,555m for 1975-76 to $ 10,207m in 1977-78. This is a 19.3 per cent increase. However, over the two years, March 1976 to March 1978, prices have increased by 23 per cent as measured by the consumer price index. In other words there has been an increase of almost 4 per cent above the increase in the money amounts allocated to the States. So there has been a real reduction on that basis. However, the CPI is not the ideal deflator to use in assessing real levels of government expenditure but up to date deflators of government expenditure are not available. However, if the deflator for government capital expenditure and current expenditure published with the national accounts for the two years December 1975 to December 1977, is used and the figures are increased by 19.7 per cent and 21.9 per cent respectively for that two-year period, the real level of Commonwealth allocation is again shown to have fallen. So, whether one uses the CPI or the implicit price deflators for government capital expenditure or current expenditure the result is the same in every case; there is a real decline in the total amount of funds allocated to the States. 
There is no need for the honourable member for La Trobe to be wobbling his head around. The figures speak for themselves. They are the facts. 
I could hear him doing it from here. They are the facts and whatever basis one uses for deflating for prices it is clear that there has been a real reduction in the level of funding to the States. That is the basic fact which the Government cannot avoid. Furthermore, this estimate assumes that the total Budget allocation for 1977-78 is actually paid. In our view this is unlikely to happen, though the extent of the underpayment will not be clear until the end of the financial year. However, in the Appropriation Bills which we debated in this chamber earlier this week some small cuts in allocations to the States were already listed. Therefore, the fall in real Commonwealth allocations for the States will be somewhat greater than that suggested by the Budget Estimates. 
On this matter I think it is important also to look at previous statements which have been made by the Government. In 1976, in answer to a question in the Senate on 27 April,  Senator Carrick,  the Minister responsible for FederalState financial relations, said that total payments to the States under new federalism would increase by over 58 per cent in real terms in the first three years of the Fraser Government. Here we are in the middle of the third year and we find that in fact there has been in the first two years a reduction in real terms. Instead of this so-called 58 per cent increase in real terms over a threeyear period that the Government promised there has been no real increase at all over the first two years. 
Another statement was made by a Government Minister in relation to this matter. The then Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  released a Press statement on 18 July 1976 which stated: 
Over the five years to 1 975-76 the annual growth in State Budget expenditures had averaged over 20 per cent. It had exceeded the growth in Commonwealth Budget expenditures, excluding payments to States, over the same period. At the same time payments by the Commonwealth to the States had grown much faster than other Commonwealth outlays. In 1975-76 payments to the States increased by over 30 per cent compared with an increase  of about  1 7 per cent in other Commonwealth Budget outlays. 
The Press statement then stated: 
There had to be a slowing down in the rate of growth of Commonwealth payments to the States. 
The then Treasurer was talking about the Government's plans for payments to the States in mid- 1976. It is clear that the objective of new federalism was to reduce payments to the States. It is there in the words from the mouth of the then Treasurer and the reality of what has occurred since then bears out that the Government has indeed carried out its intention. What is happening is that, although the Government is maintaining general revenue funds, specific purpose payments for recurrent and capital spending are being reduced. As Professor Mathews noted in his 1976 report of the Centre for Research on Federal and Financial Relations, the Commonwealth: 
. has already abolished, begun to phase out or reduced many programs during 1976-77 without giving any offsetting increase in general purpose fund*. 
For example, there has been a sharp reduction in Commonwealth payments to the States for housing, urban and regional development, culture and recreation, development of water supply and electricity services and even for industry assistance and development. 
Fortunately for Australia, many of the State governments have been prepared to find alternative ways of funding increased expenditure, using for example moneys accumulated in trust funds. The result has been growth in State government employment at a time when Commonwealth Government and national employment have been falling. 
-The member for Eden-Monaro asks, 'What is good about that?' I hope that the people who work for State Government bodies in his electorate are aware of his statement that he thinks an increase in State Government employment is a bad thing. 
-They will be interested to hear that that is his attitude. He might be interested to learn that if the States had not increased their total employment the level of national unemployment would have been considerably higher. For example, during 1977 State government employment increased by 40,000, while Commonwealth and local government employment was static. Without these extra 40,000 jobs provided by the State governments, there would have been at least 40,000 more people unemployed. That would suit the honourable member for Eden-Monaro right down to the ground, because he objects to the States increasing their levels of employment. There would have been another 40,000 people out of jobs. I hope that the Australian people are aware that that is his attitude. 
In summary, what I have been saying about the personal income tax sharing arrangements is that they offer the States no improvement in the distribution of responsibility for determining the allocation of personal tax revenue, for the Commonwealth retains the power to set the total amount of the States' share. There is no effective responsibility sharing, and the position is essentially the same as before, with arguments about the tax share replacing arguments about escalation of the financial assistance grants formula. Even worse, the specific purpose grants to the States are being cut back. So the States are worse off than they were before, with less power, less money and more responsibility. 
Turning briefly to the Commonwealth Grants Commission amendment, the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The Bill is the result of a long process of negotiation with the States, resulting in a measure with which they now apparently agree. The advantage for the Commonwealth Government of this arrangement is that it will give to the Grants Commission the responsibility for determining the distribution of the States' allocation. The effect will be to increase the disputes amongst the States, rather than between the States and the Commonwealth, a development no doubt very welcome to the Government. The guideline on which the Grants Commission is to operate, as set out in Budget Paper No. 7, Payments to and for the States, is as follows: 
The review should be on the basis of the principle that each State should be able to provide State Government services of a recurrent kind to the same standard as other States without imposing high rates of taxes or charges; differences in revenue raising capacities and the relative costs of providing comparable government services should be taken into account. 
That principle is quite admirable, but rather vague. It is confused by the fact that there are two other types of equalisation provision, the applications for special grants from the four smaller States to the Grants Commission; and the equalisation of the surcharges which any of the four smaller States would be entitled to under stage 2 of the tax sharing arrangements. This is not a criticism of the intent of the provision but rather a comment on the complexity of the task that the Government is giving to the Grants Commission. 
One tends to suspect that one of the Government's intentions in establishing the new arrangements is to remove the benefit of the railways agreements which South Australia and Tasmania negotiated with the Labor Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has sought ways to reverse these agreements, but has so far not been able to find one. Perhaps he hopes that the effect of the equalisation arrangements will be to remove the benefit that these States have received. The arrangements for appointment of associate members to the Grants Commission are unclear in our view. It seems quite possible that there will be substantial conflict between the four smaller States in appointing their two members. It seems to us that the Premier of Queensland would be highly likely to demand that at least one of these members came from his State. Furthermore, it is not clear from the Bill what procedure will be used if they reach an impasse and are not able to decide on their two appointments. Perhaps there should be provision for the Commonwealth, if the States cannot agree on one among themselves, to make a nomination on their behalf. Therefore, in respect of the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill, I move: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
Whilst not opposing the passage of the Bill the House: 
rejects the new federalism on which the Bill is based; and 
notes the failure of the 1976 formula for determining the level of financial assistance to the States and directs attention to the likely failure of the new formula. ' 
Before concluding I would like to say a few words about stage 2. So far we have been discussing the Bill which relates to stage 1 of the socalled new federalism, but it seems appropriate to say a word or two about stage 2 development also. The Government has so far not produced legislation in relation to stage 2, although for some time we have been told that it would be operative for the financial year 1977-86 which is fast moving up on us. Stage 2, of course, has as its central feature the provision that the States will be able to levy an income tax surcharge or provide for a rebate if they see fit. The fact is that the States, one after the other, are expressing their opposition to it. The State of New South Wales has made it quite clear that it is opposed to levying such an income tax. Furthermore, the State of Victoria has - 
-They will be opposed to a rebate, I imagine, also because under stage 1 they will be starved for funds, as I have explained, and will be in no position to provide tax rebates. Not only has the State of New South Wales expressed its opposition to the idea of the States being able to impose a surcharge, but so too has the Premier of Victoria. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who comes from Victoria might be interested to learn that his State Premier has come out quite strongly against stage 2. In the Melbourne  Age  of 1 8 April the following report appears: 
The Premier,  Mr Hamer,  yesterday ruled out any chance of Victoria introducing State income tax. 
 It is still our policy that we would not be prepared to impose any additional burden by way of income tax on the citizens of Victoria.'  Mr Hamer  said. 
It is quite clear that the States are very worried about stage 2. The Premier of Western Australia also said, a year ago, that in the current economic circumstances he thought that an income tax surcharge should not be imposed by the States. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! First, the honourable member for La Trobe is out of his seat. Secondly, even it he were not, he would still not be entitled to interject. 

Thirdly, he does not have any idea what he is talking about. 
There have been public statements against any income tax surcharge being levied by the States. The Government, in passing stage 2, clearly will be giving the States that power and saying to them when they come seeking further financial assistance: 'You have got the power to levy an income tax surcharge; why don't you go off and do it?' That is what it is mainly in here for. It is another lever to squeeze the States. Politically, it will be dynamite for them. They will be unable to levy a surcharge but the Commonwealth Government will have that lever with which to put more pressure on the States and say, 'There is nothing doing. Until you exercise your rights under the legislation, don't come to us crying poor mouth.' That is another way in which this Government is going to squeeze the States. The proviso that they will be able to have a rebate instead of a surcharge is utterly irrelevant because the States are being squeezed so much that the idea of conceding a rebate and therefore taking a substantial further cutback on their share of income tax receipts is simply not going to be on. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) In view of the statement by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations that the peak in unemployment at the end of January 1978 was higher than anticipated, does he still adhere to his statement reported in the  Financial Review of  24 January 1978 that unemployment will start falling in seasonally adjusted terms this year. 
As seasonally adjusted employment figures are no longer published, how will he or anyone else know if seasonally adjusted unemployment is falling or rising. 
Are seasonally adjusted unemployment figures compiled although not published; if so, does he intend to recommence their publication in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) To which occupations does Statement No. 2, page 10, of the Budget Papers for 1977-78 refer in noting that despite the high overall incidence of unemployment, labour is reported in short supply in a number of skilled occupations. 
2 ) What action is being taken to end these shortages. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Is it intended that the Victorian Health Commission will assume any rehabilitation responsibility presently held by the Commonwealth Government. 
Is planning proceeding to regionalise rehabilitation services, especially in the western region of Melbourne; if so, what stage has it reached. 
What role will the Sunshine Hospital complex have in regard to rehabilitation services, and when will it commence to undertake that role. 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns reports that he clashed with Vice-President Mondale on the appropriate approach to economic policy when the Vice-President visited here two weeks ago. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister told the Vice-President that American economic policies were wrong and that  President  Carter should adopt his policy of attacking inflation first? Is it also a fact that Vice-President Mondale rejected his views as representing poor economic and social policies and stated that nations did not have to choose between inflation and unemployment? Will the Prime Minister also inform the House whether, prior to lecturing the VicePresident, he was aware that whilst the number of employed Australians declined by 50,000 over the past year, the total number of employed Americans increased by 3.5 million in the same period? 
-I move: 
That in the opinion of this House, a Department of Economic Development should be established as a matter of urgency to prepare and administer a medium and long term national economic strategy which is essential to the resolution of the economic and social crises now facing this nation. 
The Opposition is proposing this General Business motion because it is convinced that without resort to economic planning this country will never achieve more than a partial and highly unsatisfactory recovery from the economic and social crises with which it is now beset. The House needs little reminding of the nature of these crises. The Australian economy in 1 978 is characterised by high and rising unemployment, under-utilised capacity, depressed profits, a deteriorating balance of payments, growing uncertainty about the future of our manufacturing industries, increasing poverty and declining living standards for the great bulk of the population. Furthermore, these economic failures have given rise to or exacerbated various antisocial developments in our society. This is a society marked by rapidly increasing rates of crime, mental illness, suicide, drug addiction, vandalism, child bashing, and so forth. Indeed it appears that in some parts of our society such problems are so serious that they amount to signs of social disintegration. These are extraordinarily pressing problems and their resolution is of the utmost urgency. We do not suggest however that simple solutions are available. The range and complexity of issues facing governments today are enormous and it is accordingly increasingly difficult for governments to cope. 
Particularly is this so when, in addition to the current crises, there is the added burden of dealing with a seemingly bewildering array of forces for future change. For instance, within our own economy governments must contend with the consequences of our changing population composition due to a declining birthrate and reduced migration. Rapid growth of the education system and reduced migration have led to changes in the skill composition of our work force. Changes in taste and technology are creating new patterns of demand and methods of supply with consequent influences on the types and amounts of labour needed for various industries. In addition, we are increasingly faced with environmental problems that must be balanced against growth objectives and, along with the rest of the world, we will need to adjust to the widespread ramifications of the coming energy crisis. 
External forces are also forcing structural changes on our economy. The world recession and increasing instability of the world economy create grave problems for governments. The increasing internationalisation of production stemming from the power of highly mobile multinational corporations has further added to the instability of the economy and poses special structural difficulties for Australia, allied as they are to the industrial revolution in South East and East Asia. For instance during 1977 each of the five countries in the Association of South East Asian Nations grew by between 6 per cent and 9 per cent. As such growth is concentrated in export oriented manufacturing industries, it poses many difficulties but also some opportunities for Australia. The degree to which we are able satisfactorily to resolve this myriad of pressures and complex problems will be determined principally by the performance of the Australian Government. 
It is therefore of paramount importance that this Government equips itself thoroughly to deal with that daunting responsibility and to do that it must in our view take two basic steps. Firstly, it must establish its objectives. If it is not clear in its objectives there is nothing surer than that its policy making will be grossly inadequate. Secondly, it must set about planning to achieve its objectives. Without medium and long term planning policy making will always be hopelessly inefficient as governments simply react to current pressures without being fully cognisant of the ramifications of such responses for other policy objectives. Co-ordination of policy to achieve long term objectives is impossible in these circumstances and the likelihood of their achievement is accordingly remote. It is therefore not surprising to find that most Western industrialised countries engage in some form of economic planning. Indeed Australia is the only industrialised country I know of which does not publish a national economic and social strategy of some kind. 
In the rest of the world economic and social planning are now conventional tools of government. Of course it will be objected that Australia does not need economic planning because we have managed well without it before, during the Menzies era of the 1950s and 1960s. But such an objection would be wrongly based because the fact is that Australia's economic performance in the 1950s and the 1960s, as measured by its rate of economic growth, was abysmal. As the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted in its first report on Australia in 1 972, per capita growth between 1950 and 1970 'was well below the OECD average and barely above that of the slowest growing country'. 
The reason for this pathetic performance was that during this period industry policy was aimed at building up a fragmented and diverse manufacturing industry behind high tariff walls with a view to replacing imports. In the process however it created a low rate of economic growth and by developing one of the world's least efficient manufacturing industries has left us a frightful legacy. So much for the decade of sound economic management under Liberal-Country Party governments. 
Had it not been for the ideological objection of these conservative governments to planning, our economic performance could have been much improved. Introduction of even the mild economic planning proposed by the Vernon Committee in the mid-1960s could have facilitated structural changes in the late 1960s and early 1970s when, in an era of world-wide economic growth, our economy would have been able to absorb such changes readily. But the doctrinaire refusal to contemplate any form of planning whatever meant that the structural distortion of our economy has been cemented and entrenched and, as a consequence, medium and long term policies are now an even more necessary condition for coping with them. 
Adequate policies for structural change require an array of co-ordinated measures in the areas of industry assistance, taxation, manpower policy, regional policy and careful estimation of future economic trends, all of which can be appropriately established only in the context of overall economic planning. I particularly stress the need for overall economic planning since planning in particular sectors of the economy only, though perhaps of benefit to that sector, will not necessarily be of benefit to the economy as a whole. Thus the various motor car plants that have operated for the past decade and a half have been designed to benefit the car manufacturers and the components industry, but the end result has been a highly inefficient industry producing such expensive products that they are virtually pricing themselves out of business. Had there been a national economic plan with the Government continually assessing the means by which it could achieve the most efficient allocation of resources consistent with its other objectives of full employment, low inflation, et cetera, it is highly unlikely that the automotive industry shambles that we have today would ever have occurred. 
Comprehensive, integrated, medium term economic planning can therefore be of great benefit to the private sector. It reduces the risk factor by establishing a framework against which the business is far better able to assess its prospects than is the case if it has little idea of Government intentions in the years ahead. Indicative planning can therefore result in steadier and higher rates of industrial investment as a result of more confident expectations. This confidence of expectations will be further increased if there is, as we would intend, close consultation between public and private sectors during the preparation of a medium term plan. 
We are not talking of a centralised authoritarian plan imposed on the economy without consultation with those involved. We would ensure that all significant sectors of the economy, including the unions, were closely consulted and involved in the planning process. Only in this way can the plan reflect the realities of the market place and be attuned to what is in fact feasible. Nor do we see such a plan as having significance only for the private sector. Indeed, it is in the planning of public expenditure that there is the most immediate scope for effective improvements. It is in the public sector that the government has complete control. It is in the public sector that the greatest scope exists for clarification of priorities and for improved definition of programs. The advantage of planning public expenditure is that the much greater resources available over, say, a three-year period, offer opportunities for tackling a greater range of tasks more thoroughly than is possible if a year by year approach is adhered to, as is presently the case. 
Publication of medium term public sector programs would also directly assist the private sector in providing many of the parameters within which its future growth could be expected to occur, so particularly assisting management in industries like building and construction where a large part of demand originates in the public sector. It is clear then that potentially there are considerable benefits to be gained from medium and long-term planning so long as it is expertly and sensibly conducted. What then are the possible objections? Apart from the straight ideological refusal to have anything to do with anything that looks remotely like socialism the main objection appears to be that a plan, no matter how expertly conceived, could be quickly invalidated by unforeseen developments in a turbulent world. But the answer to this is that a plan would not be rigidly established and attempts would not be made to adhere to it regardless of changes in the economic milieu. We envisage that the medium term plan would be on a rolling basis so that it would be periodically updated and reassessed and projections for three to five years ahead would always be available. Also, in this respect it is difficult to believe that a government that had a comprehensive economic plan would not be in a better position to assess the impact on its economy of a sudden drastic event such as the oil shock of 1973 than would a government which had no plans at all. The former would surely be better placed to assess the impact of that exogenous factor on its economy and to decide how it could best adjust to it. 
The case for governmental medium and longterm planning in today's pluralistic society in order to ensure the co-ordination of decision making necessary for rigorous pursuit of governmental objectives is therefore overwhelming. In considering how to implement such planning, various options are available to governments. Some possible options are: A department that co-ordinates and plans economic policy, the establishment of a planning bureau on something along the lines of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, or an advisory council to monitor short and long-term policy issues. All three of these options are to be found in western industrial countries. A number of countries, including 
France and Sweden, have powerful planning units within their finance departments. Some countries, particularly the Netherlands, have established a statutory planning authority to advise on the central co-ordination of economic policies between different institutions and over a period of time. Canada and West Germany have favoured the concept of a council of experts to act as independent judges of economic policy to assess its performance against government objectives and to report to parliament and the public. It was this type of body that the Vernon Committee recommended but which was rejected by the then government. 
Of those various options the one which we believe to be most suitable to Australia's needs in these troubled times is the establishment of a department with responsibility for planning. The establishment of a department to conduct planning would ensure that the planning body carried maximum weight in the bureaucracy and in the government. Australia has had so little experience of planning, and opposition to it is so entrenched in Treasury, that it will more than likely be sidestepped, starved of necessary information, opposed and blocked at every turn of the bureaucratic wheel unless it is a powerful organisation in its own right. A Dutch type statutory authority would in our view be likely to wither on the vine in these circumstances, whilst the council of experts simply seems too removed from the concept of comprehensive planning that we consider is required if this country is to resolve its severe economic and social problems satisfactorily. The House will recall that the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration recommended the establishment of a planning department. It saw such a department as:   . . having the capacity to concern itself mainly with the medium and long-term aspects of the industrial structure of the economy, and to act as the prime source of advice bearing on these aspects of economic policy. 
The Royal Commission envisaged, however, that such a department would exist in addition to the Treasury, which would retain responsibility for short-term economic policies. We are strongly of the opinion that such an arrangement would not be practicable for much the same reasons as the British Labour Government found in the mid 1960s when it established a Department of Economic Affairs in addition to the Treasury. The result was that the short-term policy proposals of Treasury were put forward without regard to the planning concept and justified as the most appropriate option at that time. Since short-term considerations were always the most pressing, and as Treasury had greater power and prestige and better sources of information than the newly formed planning department, it continually won out and the planning concept was increasingly discredited. Britain eventually opted for the concept of a council through the National Economic Development Council. Such would almost certainly be the case in this country if a planning department were established without responsibility also for short-term economic policy. We therefore propose that the new planning department, which could be called the Department of Economic Development, would have responsibility not only for medium and long-term strategy but also for short-term policy. In this way co-ordination between short and mediumterm policy would be assured, with the mediumterm strategy providing the context within which all short-term economic and social policy would be made. We propose that this new department would also take over ministerial responsibility for the three independent advisory regulatory bodies to Government, that is, the Industries Assistance Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission but they would retain their present degree of independence. 
However, some functions now carried on in the Industries Assistance Commission in particular would be transferred to within the new department, especially the IMPACT model which would be a highly useful econometric tool for predicting the effects of alternative policies. This model, which is designed to assess the impact of demographic and structural change on the Australian economy would, with its component forecasting and inter-industry models, be able to be utilised in association with the Treasury's current short-term national income forecasting model to ensure greater integration of economic policy. Such a re-shaped departmental structure would have its biggest impact on Treasury as the new department would take over the major advisory functions of the present Treasury relating to economic, fiscal and monetary policy, taxation, banking and insurance, and foreign exchange responsibilities. Thus alongside the new department there would be a finance department or reduced Treasury Department which would include the present responsibilities of the Department of Finance with some other functions of the current Treasury such as bankruptcy and solvency. This finance department would, however, have the important responsibility of preparing the public expenditure plan within the context of priorities determined by Cabinet. Such a public expenditure plan would provide comprehensive and consistent guidelines for all public spending. 
This re-shaping of the departmental structure of the economic departments would in our view enable a much greater co-ordination of economic and industry policy than now exists. Although it would also involve new planning functions, it would not necessitate a massive increase in the size of the bureaucracy. Planning units in other countries generally are not large. The highly respected Dutch planning bureau has a staff of only approximately 130 and the population of Holland is similar to our own. The major requirement is not that there be a great increase in the size of the public service but that those who are incorporated into the planning department have a high level of expertise. Without that the planning process will be of little benefit. Such expertise would need to include expertise and experience in various segments of economic activity, so it would be essential for such a department to recruit people from areas of business, the unions and rural organisations. 

 Mr Speaker, in moving this motion the Opposition has set out its intention to introduce economic planning in this country when it returns to office. We strongly believe that without it Australia will continue to flounder in a turbulent, aggressive world and that we will progressively be reduced to the status of a stagnant, irrelevant country characterised by minimal growth, chronic unemployment and relatively low incomes. However, here we are not only expressing our intentions when we return to office but also we are making a strong plea to the Government to take this type of action that we now recommend. It is probably a forlorn hope to expect anything from the Government, other than scorn for the very suggestion. If that is the case it will be tragic for this nation. For far too long we have continued with a scissors-and-paste approach to the economy which was abandoned by most comparable countries many years ago. Australia needs economic planning if it is to become a rich, developing country in this world, a country of which we can be proud. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! ls there a seconder to the motion? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of the income of a married person receiving average weekly earnings with a spouse and two children is total tax and social security payments. 
What proportion of the income of a married person earning two and a half dmes average earnings with a spouse and two children is total tax and social security payments. 
-The Bill now before the House essentially does two things. Firstly, it changes the name given to the bank established at the end of last year just before the election, the Australian Rural Bank. It changes that name to the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. It does that because there was a conflict with the name of the Rural Bank of New South Wales and also with the name of the Rural and Industries Bank of Western Australia. In New South Wales the Premier had threatened High Court action if the Government did not change the name of this new Federal bank. The second thing that the Bill does is to amend the condition on which the Commonwealth Government may make grants or loans to this Primary Industry Bank. The second provision is a matter of some concern to the Opposition. We of course do not oppose the first provision. 
The second provision relates to the granting of funds from the Commonwealth to the bank. The original provision in section 7(1) of the Australian Rural Bank Act reads: 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act, but subject to sub-section 4 (8), the Treasurer may, from time to time, on behalf of the Commonwealth, make grants or loans to the Rural Bank on such terms and conditions as he determines. 
The Bill now before the House changes that provision in that it substitutes for the words 'as he determines' the words 'as are determined by the Treasurer and agreed to by the Bank'. The essential difference lies in the words '. . . and agreed to by the Bank'. Why has there been this change? The only reason given by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is that it conforms with other banking Acts- the Commonwealth Banks Act, the Reserve Bank Act, and so on. But in our opinion this Bank is in quite a different situation from that of either the Commonwealth Bank or the Reserve Bank. The Primary Industry Bank will be controlled by the banking industry which has opposed its establishment from the outset. The Treasurer revealed in his second reading speech that the trading banks would be given control of the Primary Industry Bank when he announced the composition of its board of directors. The Act passed last year was very imprecise about the composition of the board. The only comment made about that was in part III of the Schedule to the Act which stated: 
The directors of the Rural Bank are to include- 
A person designated by the Treasurer to be the Chairman; 
A person designated by the Treasurer to represent the interests of the Commonwealth; and 
Two persons designated by the Treasurer to represent the interests of primary producers. 
We see that four persons are mentioned. Clearly, there was provision for other persons to be appointed because the Act simply states that the directors of the Rural Bank are to include various people mentioned. It leaves scope for other people to be added to the board of directors. The Treasurer told us in his second reading speech who these other people will be. He stated that there would be seven people representing the trading banks and one person representing the State banks. So we have altogether a board of directors composed of 12 people with eight of those 12 people representing the banks of this country, six of those banks being private trading banks. This puts an entirely different perspective upon one's attitude towards the bank. Clearly, it will be a banker's bank and not a primary producer's bank. It will be controlled by the banks of this country. Even if one takes the point that the private trading banks have only half the numbers on the board, that still represents a very large proportion. It only needs one of the other six members to vote with them to give control to the private banks. I suspect that on some issues they would not find much difficulty in that. 
This is a very important point. It means for the primary producers of this country that the bank which is established in their name will be in effect, a bank in their name only, because it will be controlled by the organisations with which they have always been in some sort of conflictthe trading banks. The reason that the trading banks strongly opposed the establishment of this new bank was that they thought they might lose profitable business through its operation. Now, they are virtually assured that this will not happen because they will control the bank's business at both ends. They will control or at least heavily influence the new bank's policies through their numbers on the board of directors and at the customer end they will have charge of the new bank's operations. The new bank will not lend directly to farmers but will lend to banks and lenders which will on-lend those funds to specific customers. 
This is a perfect situation for the trading banks of this country. They may be able to pass over and certainly will want to pass over to the new bank all the marginal business that is not very profitable or is fairly risky but which does not qualify for rural reconstruction assistance. There is some doubt about the extent to which they will be able to do this, and I will come back to that point later in my speech. It is a possibility. This is a fear which is very much in the minds of representatives of primary producer organisations. For instance, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation has expressed grave anxiety on this point.  Mr O'Brien,  the  President  of the Federation, issued a Press release on 23 Maythat is, on Tuesday of this week. He said: 
AWMPF clearly indicated extreme concern in the following areas - 
The second area he mentioned was this: 
Extreme concern over the Banker dominated Board in that the Primary Industry Bank could only serve as a tool for the present Banking structure to 'offload ' its high risk investment in agriculture to the Primary Industry Bank. 
I point out that  Mr O'Brien  expressed that concern the day after he saw the Treasurer to discuss the whole matter of the Bank. Clearly, we see that nothing was said by the Treasurer to allay his fears in that respect. Also, the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers of Australia has expressed concern about the composition of the board of directors. The Council wrote to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on 19 May. I wish to quote a few excerpts from the letter. It stated: 
Earlier this year representations were made to you in which this Council asked that members be allowed to participate in what was then known as the Australian Rural Bank. 
It was stated further on in the letter: 
You replied on 6 February 1978 to the effect that you noted the interest of the pastoral houses in the operation of the Australian Rural Bank and the assurance given that their interest would not be overlooked was accepted. 
The Council received an assurance from the Minister for Primary Industry that the interests of its members would not be overlooked. The Council took that to mean that it would have representation on the board of directors. In fact, that has not been the case. The letter also stated: 
Naturally, members were disappointed that no further advice was received from you. 
Further on, the letter mentioned a breakdown in communication apparently between the Department of Primary Industry and the Treasury and concluded by stating: 
It is proposed to ask that an opportunity be given to this Council to nominate representatives to the board, either by having the legislation amended to provide additional directors, or possibly to replace some representatives already intended to take their seat on the board of directors of the new institution. Surely it should be appreciated that some of the large pastoral houses have branch facilities far greater than those of some of the State banks and perhaps one or more of the trading banks. 
In the same letter the Council also made the point that the pastoral finance houses provided some 9 per cent of total rural finance. It is clear that there is considerable resentment in rural organisations- not just the producer organisations but the finance organisations as wellabout the composition of the Board, and rightly so. Both of those groups may well feel that they have been sold out by the composition of the board of directors which has now been revealed by the Treasurer. Because the Opposition feels strongly about this matter, I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the passage of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that provisions should be made for (a) the number of persons representing the Trading Banks on the Bank's Board to be no more than four, (b) the number of persons representing the interests of primary producers to be increased to four and (c) one person with special qualifications in such areas as non-bank rural financing, rural reconstruction or related fields to be appointed '. 
The effect of that amendment would be to reduce the representation of the trading banks from seven to four and to double the number of primary producer representatives on the board from two to four. It would also allow one position on the board for which rural finance organisations or rural reconstruction bodies could nominate a person. We feel that this would be a much fairer board composition. It would mean that the trading banks would not control the board of directors and that there would be a good balance of the various interests involved. The amendment should be supported by this House. The Government has given no reason whatever for making the decision to give control of the Bank to the trading banks of this country. In that situation- with no argument being put forward for it and with every good reason for that not being the case- we think that the House should accept the amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time and instruct the Government that it is the opinion of this House that the board of directors should be altered in order to bring about a much fairer composition. 
The Government's cave-in to the trading banks causes us real concern. The proposal now before the House is to alter the conditions upon which funds may be granted or loaned by the Government to the Bank. By providing that such funds must be agreed upon by the banks- the provision I mentioned earlier- the Bill gives further control to the trading banks. Unless our amendment is accepted by the Government or some better reason given for making this alteration to the provision of funds to the Bank than has been given so far, the Opposition will vote against that clause in the Committee stage. 
We have some other criticisms of the way in which the Bank will operate, from what we can gather at this stage. Of course, the legislation contains nothing in respect of interest rates, and there is nothing in the original Act which says anything of any detail about interest rates. During last year's Federal election campaign, the Government made two key promises about the Australian Rural Bank. The first one was that the Australian Rural Bank, for which the legislation was passed in the last Parliament, would be established without delay. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the election promises of the Government parties in respect of the Australian Rural Bank. I had mentioned that one of those promises was to pass legislation establishing such a bank without delay. The second promise was that such a bank would provide, in conjunction with the banks and the other lenders, long term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. These promises were widely repeated around the country. There is little doubt that those producers who are not cynical about the establishment and operation of the Bank believe that low interest rate funds over a long term will be available. But what is the reality, firstly, in respect of the Bank being established without delay? The fact is that we are now headed towards the middle of this calendar year and we are now dealing with legislation which amends the name of the Bank and makes other changes to it. But the Bank has yet to be established, despite what the Minister for Primary Industry said when speaking to the National Agricultural Outlook Conference in Canberra on 24 January of this year. 
It is expected that the ARB - 
That is, the Australian Rural Bank-  will be in a position to make its first loans in the second quarter of 1978. 
Of course, that simply will not be the position. It may be in a position to make loans some time in the third quarter of 1978. But much more important is the Government's promise in respect of interest rates. As I have mentioned, there is nothing about interest rates in legislation which has been passed to this date or in the legislation which is now before us. We are not told anything in that legislation about what the interest rates will be or what the lending policy will be. Yesterday the newly appointed  chairman  of the new Bank,  Mr Ives,  who previously was the head of the Department of Primary Industry, spoke out on the subject at the National Rural Press Club. He was asked about concessional interest rates to be provided by the bank. From the information provided to me, his answer was along the lines that there would be either long term finance or marginally lower rates of interest. So it was an either/or' proposition. If that is to be the case, it means that the Government has broken its election promise, because it promised long term loans at concessional interest rates. It was not an either/or' situation in the promise, but it appears that the reality is that it will be that way. 

 Mr Ives went on to explain that marginally lower interest rates would stem from the passing on to primary producers of the small differential which would arise through the ability of the new bank as a refinancing institution to raise funds at slightly lower rates of interest than can the other trading banks. So it is clear from that that the Government has no intention of subsidising interest rates. Secondly, the concessional interest rates, insofar as they exist, will not mean much. That will be particularly so if, as it is rumoured, the trading banks seek to make charges on the operations of the Primary Industry Bank. Fear has been expressed that such charges could be as high as 2 per cent. 
I refer again to the Press release of  Mr O'Brien,  the  President  of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, issued last Tuesday after he had been to see the Treasurer for the purpose of discussing this matter with him. Point 1 of the Press release reads: 
Interest rates at current overdraft rates would be prohibitive to the vast majority of agricultural producers. 
The fourth point reads: 
Concern over the charge by the present Banking System on operations of the Primary Industry Bank. 
The Press release goes on to state: 

 Mr O'Brien said that an overall charge or 2 per cent by the Banks will effectively prevent lower interest rates to producers. 
I have mentioned that this statement was made after  Mr O'Brien  had been to see the Treasurer. So clearly he was very worried about the way in which this Primary Industry Bank is to operate. He does not see there being any chance of a concessional interest rate if the Bank operates in the way in which he understands it will operate, following his discussions with the Treasurer. That is, there will be something like current overdraft rates applied to interest and additional levies will be imposed by the trading banks or the pastoral finance houses, or whoever the other lender is, on the primary producer for any loans that he gets. This will mean that there will be no concessional rates of interest at all. 
It is clear from all this that the Government has in effect perpetrated a fraud on the primary producers of this country. When they become fully aware of what the Government intends, the high expectations that they have for this Bankexpectations which were fanned by the Government parties at the last election- will be shattered. The only benefit they will- be able to see in it will be the provision of long term loans. But if these are at normal rates of interest, the benefit to farmers will clearly be minimal. On this point, I wish to quote again what  Mr O'Brien  has said, but this time it is what he said in an interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's  National Farm Report  program of Tuesday, 23 May, which is the day on which he had been to see the Treasurer.  Mr O'Brien  was asked the question: 
. surely though this facility has not been available to primary producers in the past and that is the ability to have long term loans, so it must have the advantage in that? 
He answered: 
Look a long term loan today it is not very difficult to get a loan for up to 10 or 12 years, particularly in the overdraft set up which has been, or was and still is the way land has been settled. When you talk solely about a term, if you are talking on a rate of 10V4 per cent and you are talking on a term of 30 years, this is looking at a figure of about $330,000 to repay $100,000 loan, now that sort of money is not in Primary Industry, I think all Ministers and all people would be well aware of that. 
So clearly  Mr O'Brien  was very sceptical of any benefit coming from long term loans at current overdraft rates, which appears to be the picture. He did not see that as being of much benefit to primary producers. 
Now that we can see how this new bank is to function and how minimal the benefits to primary producers will be, it is clear that it would have been much better to do what we understand was recommended by the Commonwealth Bank, namely, for the Commonwealth Development Bank to cease to be a lender of last resort and therefore enable primary producers to have direct access to it rather than having to go first to a trading bank or pastoral finance company and being able to turn to the Commonwealth Development Bank for assistance only if they are unable to obtain finance from that source. That at least would have been some improvement in financing arrangements for primary producers, and although it would not have been as great an improvement as they have been led to expect from the Primary Industry Bank, it would have represented more substantial assistance than they will in fact receive from the operations of this new bank, as we understand it is to operate. 
Of course, that would not have suited the private trading banks which would prefer to keep control of as much of the rural finance as possible. Hence their original objection to any bank being established at all. When they could not prevent that, they did the next best thing by somehow pressuring the Government into giving them control of the bank, at both the policy and operational levels. The possibility of the banks being able to off load high risk customers, as I have already mentioned, seems to us to be a real danger.  Mr Ives,  when speaking at the National Rural Press Club yesterday, asserted that that would not be the case. I think it is very much worth while taking note of what he had to say. I shall quote from the transcript of proceedings. He was asked: 
Can you see any danger of the private banking system unloading high risk rural debts on to the new Primary Industry Bank? 
He answered: 
Not within the reference that has been drawn up. The Primary Industry Bank of Australia will be a refinancing institution and the basis of the operation will be that an impending borrower will go to his own bank and if that bank decides that his proposition is viable then that bank will go to the Primary Industry Bank and ask for the funds. 
This next part is tremendously important: 
But the prime lender takes the risk. That is the safeguard. Under those conditions I would think that propositions that are wheeled up will be soundly examined before they are put forward. 
That is a tremendously important statement because what  Mr Ives,  the newly appointed  chairman  of the Primary Industry Bank, is saying there is that the private trading banks will not be able to offload their high risk customers on to the Primary Industry Bank because they will have to bear the risk for any customers who obtain funds through the Primary Industry Bank. If that is the situation, the Primary Industry Bank is a total charade. The private banks would have absolutely no incentive whatsoever to send customers to that bank or to obtain any funds for customers through the Primary Industry Bank simply because they would receive no profit from the deal but would bear all the risk. What possible reason would there be, if this is to be the way in which the Primary Industry Bank operates, for any private trading bank to obtain any funds whatever for any one of its customers? It would be absolutely absurd for a private trading bank to do so. It would not make any commercial sense. The private banks might do so out of a sense of good heartedness but they are not noted for that so much as their commercial operations. 
We see this as being a quite remarkable development. It this is to be the way in which the Primary Industry Bank operates- the  Chairman  said only yesterday that it is to be the way the Bank will operate- we see the Bank exposed as an absolute and total charade which simply will not work. It will not be of any benefit whatever to primary producers if it works in this way. On the other hand, if the Government sees what is involved and decides it cannot allow this provision to operate and that the Primary Industry Bank will have to take the risk, the private trading banks will be able to off-load the risk- they will have every incentive to off-load their high risk customers- to the Primary Industry Bank. So, either way, we see this operation as being fraught with all sorts of dangers. Certainly it gives little prospect of help for the primary producers of this country. Concessional interest rates will not be available. We have been more or less told that. We gather, in the way in which the Bank will operate, that it is highly unlikely that there will be much in the way of funds for concessional interest rates anyway. 
Certainly, the Bill represents an amazing sell out to the private trading banks by this Government. As I mentioned, it has given the banks control over the policy end by giving them eight positions out of 12 on the board of directors. By giving them control at the operational level the banks will be able to ensure that the primary producers of this country do not obtain any benefits at the expense of less profits to the private trading banks. The Government should be re-thinking the whole situation again. The Bill clearly represents a stumble from one position to another. The Government has not thought the matter out properly. It would have been far better to do as we suggested and proceed with expanding the powers of the Commonwealth Development Bank in the ways I have mentioned by making it no longer a lender of last resource than it would have been to go on with this Primary Industry Bank. It is, in fact, exposed as a complete political gimmick which will be of no help to primary producers or, at best, only very marginally helpful. It will shatter enormously the expectations of the many people in rural areas of this country who expected great things from this Bank. 
Finally I refer to the amendment which I moved earlier to the second reading of the Bill. To remind the House, the amendment provides for a change in the membership of the board of directors. The Opposition is indicating to the Government what it believes should happen. We propose that the number of trading bank representatives be reduced from seven to four, the number of people representing the interests of primary producers be increased from two to four and that one person be on the board representing rural finance or rural reconstruction interests. Such a procedure should be supported by all those who say that they represent primary producer interests in this Parliament. If members of the National Country Party really and truly believe that they represent those interests, they have every reason to support the amendment to the second reading of the Bill and to instruct the Government that it should not sell out this bank to the private banks, that it should look after primary producers by ensuring that they have adequate representation on the board and that the board should be a balance of all the interests involved and not one which is just taken over by the private banks to be used for their benefit rather than the benefits of the primary producers of this country. 
-The Bill which is now before the House comes before us as a consequence of the abject failure of this Government's budgetary policy. It seeks to amend the Loan Act 1977 to increase the amounts which may be borrowed for defence purposes to meet a prospective increase in the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit for this year. Such a deficit must be met either by transferring expenditure normally included in the Consolidated Revenue Fund to another account or by increasing receipts. Normal procedure is to transfer some defence expenditure to the Loan Fund and the defence expenditure is used simply because that avoids the necessity to go to the Loan Council. 
In the Loan Act 1977, which was passed in October last year, the Government obtained the right to borrow up to $ 1,100m for defence purposes to cover the expected deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of $90 lm and still leave some margin for error. Now because of the blowing out of the deficit, the Government needs a further $300m since the margin for error is almost used up and there will be a further requirement for something like $300m. So the Government is seeking to increase the amount of defence expenditure that can be reallocated from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund from $ 1 , 1 00m to $ 1 ,400m. 
The blowing out of the deficit- that is, the fact that the actual deficit will be much higher than the budgeted deficit- is something which has been admitted by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  He said some time ago that it will be several hun.dered million dollars above its estimated level. Indeed, it now seems clear that the overall budget deficit for this financial year will be around $3,000m; that is, about $800m or 35 per cent above the budgeted deficit of $2,2 17m. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research of Melbourne University estimates the deficit for 1977-78 as being in the order of $3,050m and there have been various Press reports to the effect that an amount of $3,000m is expected by the Government. 
What are the reasons for the deficit blowing out in this rather startling way? If one looks at the various components of Government receipts and expenditure one can soon see why it is all happening. If we look at the net pay-as-you-earn tax receipts, which is the income tax payable principally by wage earners, we see that the estimated amount will be $5 15m below the Budget estimate, that is, a rise of only 11.2 per cent compared with the 17.2 per cent rise which was budgeted for this year compared with the previous year. I note in passing that in a year when big tax cuts were introduced the Government was still able to budget for an increase in income tax receipts from pay-as-you-earn taxpayers of 17 per cent. That was principally due to the fact that the Government had abolished the tax deduction for children following the increase in family allowances. So net pay-as-you-earn tax receipts are going to be well down- over half a billion dollars down- according to the figures produced by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. 
The second aspect that the Institute points to as being important is sales tax receipts. It estimates that they will be $ 175m below the Budget estimate, that is, that the total amount of sales tax receipts this year will be up only 2.4 per cent over the previous year, compared with the budgeted increase of 13 per cent- a very much lesser increase than was in fact budgeted for. 
The third main area on the receipts side is customs duties on imports. It is estimated by the Institute that receipts in this area will be $195m below the Budget estimate, that is, that the total amount raised through customs duties this year will be 2.8 per cent less than was actually raised in the previous year, compared with a 14.4 per cent Budget increase. So in those three areas namely, pay-as-you-earn tax receipts, sales tax receipts and customs duties receipts, there will be a very substantial short fall; in the first one $5 1 5m on the estimate of the Institute, $ 1 75m in respect of sales tax and $ 195m in respect of customs duties. We are looking at the best part of a billion dollars in just those three items. 
In regard to outlays, the Institute estimates that they will be about $ 150m above the Budget estimate, despite the savings in Government expenditure of over $200m that were notified to the Parliament a few weeks ago when we were discussing the Appropriation Bills. The increase in outlays is due to previous election promises, principally concerning the beef producers, the removal of the expenditure limitations on such programs as the National Employment and 
Training scheme and the Community Youth Employment Training programs, but also, importantly, to a big rise in social security and welfare payments. In fact, the Melbourne Institute calculates that they will be approximately $250m above the Government's budgeted level, which means they will increase by 16.6 per cent compared with the budgeted rise of only 12.7 per cent. Of course the major reason for that is simply that the cost of unemployment benefits will be so much higher than the Government budgeted for because there are so many more unemployed persons than the Government expected. On our calculations the unemployment benefit will cost about $160m more than was budgeted for. 
So we can see the reasons for the increased deficit. Analysis of these items shows that it is overwhelmingly due to the fact that the economy is far more recessed than the Government estimated in August last year, or should we say hoped it would be. The large shortfall in income tax receipts reflects the much higher level of unemployment than the Government assumed there would be. Less tax is paid because there are fewer people working than the Government had expected. The Government estimated in its Budget that employment would increase by 2 per cent from the end of June 1977 to the end of June 1 978. But what is the reality? 
The fact is that there are fewer people working now than there were a year ago. In this respect I refer to the latest figures on civilian employment. In March of this year there were 4,724,000 persons working as civilian employees compared with 4,744,500 a year ago. According to the latest figures there were 20,000 more persons employed a year ago than there were in March 1978. So much for the Budget estimate of a 2 per cent increase in employment. The forecasted increase would represent about 100,000 employees. There has been no increase, let alone an increase of 100,000 in employment. In fact, there will be fewer persons employed at the end of this financial year than there were at the end of last financial year. That illustrates the massive miscalculation on the part of the Government and the abject failure of the budgetary policy. The Government has failed totally to produce any of the increase in employment which it forecast and on which its assumptions were based. In respect of the unemployment benefit, which is the other side of the appalling employment performance of the Government, not only does more unemployment mean less tax receipts but obviously it means increased unemployment benefit expenditure which, as I have mentioned, will be about $ 160m higher than the Government's estimate. 
The reason sales tax receipts are so low is simply because there is a much lower level of economic activity than the Government expected there would be. Retail sales for the year to March 1978 increased by only 10 per cent, which is barely keeping up with the rate of increase in inflation and population. So in terms of real retail sales per head of population there has been virtually no rise in the past year. The Government expected there would be an expansion in consumer demand in that period but it simply has not occurred. On the latest indications it is not likely to occur in the near future either. So in respect of sales tax we can see that the recessed state of the economy is an important reason for the substantial shortfall in receipts. The large shortfall in customs duties clearly is due to the recessed state of the economy. It simply means that fewer imports are coming into Australia because the country is running at a low rate of economic activity. It is true that there has been some slight increase in protection levels- a tightening of quotas and so on in some areas- but this would have minor influence on the shortfalls of the order to which I referred previously. I remind the House that according to the Melbourne Institute there was a decline of 15 per cent below the Budget estimate for customs duty receipts this financial year. Clearly, in this area also we can attribute the substantial decline in receipts against that which was estimated in the Budget to the low level of economic activity. 
In this respect I also draw the attention of the House to the Budget economic growth estimates. The Budget forecast a growth of 4 per cent in real non-farm gross product during the course of the year. We have figures for only half of the year so far but they show that there has been no increase and that for the December quarter compared with the June quarter, on a seasonally adjusted basis, the real level of the non-farm gross product was in fact 0.6 per cent less than it had been in June 1977. So in the first half of this year not only has there been no progress but in fact we are further behind than when we started. It is quite clear that there is no possible hope of achieving a 4 per cent growth in the real non-farm gross product in this financial year, even if the figures are adjusted somewhat as normally occurs because the Australian Statistician tends to revise the national accounts figures fairly substantially. Even allowing for that, it is clear that there will be nothing like a 4 per cent growth in the course of this financial year. As I said, so far this year the figures illustrate that there has been a decline of 0.6 per cent. So there can be no doubt that the blowing out of the Budget is overwhelmingly due to recession. It clearly accounts for the major items causing the deficit to increase. 
What are the prospects for next year's deficit? It seems to us that economic activity is likely to continue to be low. Consumer confidence is down. The latest indicators from the Melbourne Institute show that in the last couple of months the consumer confidence index has declined quite substantially. If this continues in the course of the next couple of months we will be back to the low levels of 1976-77. Confidence rose around the time of the last election. The Commonwealth Bank's economic newsletter recently looked at trends in the economy and just a glance across the headings of the various items show how pessimistic it is about the prospects of the economy. Under the broad heading 'Current Economic Conditions' in regard to consumer spending it says 'Below Expectations'. In regard to industrial product it says 'Remains Uneven'. In regard to labour it says 'Little Underlying Change '. In regard to the home building industry it says 'Trends Still Very Weak'. These are all indications of the fact that the economy is anything but likely to stage a brilliant recovery in the near future and, being as unbiased about the situation as one can be, it is difficult to have any optimism about economic recovery of any substantial nature in the near future. This has implications for the deficit and for Government economic policy in the near future. 
In regard to the deficit, the Press reported two months ago that if there is no real increase in the level of Government expenditure the deficit in 1978-79 will be over $3,000m, and this information was supposed to have come from a Cabinet document. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research has estimated that the deficit will be in the order of $3.75 billion for 1978-79 if there is no change in policy. That estimate is based on assessments about the level of economic activity and if everything else, such as tax rates and expenditure policy remains the same. That estimate assumes a rise of 3 per cent in real non-farm gross product in 1 978-79 compared with a rise of 1 .4 per cent in 1977-78. The Institute sees some mini-recovery occurring in the first half of this year as the tax cuts start to have some effect but then weakening off in the second half of the financial year. So it is just a mini-recovery in the recession rather than anything really strong developing. 
But even with some slight recovery it seems that the deficit will increase even further, by about $750m in 1978-79, if there is no change in policy. Thus the continuation of recession, with consequent further rises in unemployment and slack economic activity, will cause the deficit to rise considerably again in the next financial year. The Government's response to this apparently is to slash further into the real level of Government expenditure. As we have mentioned in debate after debate in this House, the Government cut heavily into the real level of Government expenditure in 1975-76- as soon as it came into officeand again in 1 976-77, and now apparently it proposes to do so again. 
Various statements have been made recently by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  regarding the need to maintain the policy of expenditure restraint. Last night the suspended Minister for Finance apparently came out of his suspension temporarily to make a speech as the Minister for Finance. We regard this act as somewhat curious because we had been told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Treasurer was the Acting Minister for Finance. Nevertheless the suspended Minister for Finance produced a statement last night to an Australian Finance Conference dinner in which he spoke as the Minister for Finance and presumably therefore on behalf of the Government. He called for maximum restraint in government expenditure and indicated that there were various areas that the Government would be looking at closely in order to see what cuts should be made. One of the areas he mentioned was specific payments to the States. He said this area would come in for close scrutiny. Of course, this is an area which has already been cut back substantially by the Government in the last couple of years. The Government clearly intends to hack even more into the funds being made available to the States through specific purpose grants. As a result the States would be forced more and more onto thenown resources and have to bear the opprobrium of raising taxes or cutting expenditure themselves rather than the Federal Government bearing that responsibility. 
The Minister for Finance, as he was last night, also mentioned some other areas which the Government would look at very closely to see whether extensive cuts could be made. He said that these are the areas of fast growth. He nominated social security, welfare programs, health and education. The suggestion in respect of social security payments is that the Government will take action such as restoring the means test for pensioners aged 70 years and over or introducing a means test on the family allowance. As  Mr Robinson  said last night, the Government will have to take some hard decisions, the soft options are no longer there. If the Government is going to start to slash real levels of government expenditure further it will have to take some very hard decisions indeed- certainly decisions that will have enormous economic ramifications, not only in respect of their broad macro economic effect but also in respect of the particular programs that will be slashed. 
The effect of expenditure cuts in the broad term is something on which I want to concentrate at this time. The cutting of government expenditure at any time has the effect of reducing the level of demand in the economy. It must be borne in mind that the government sector is a very important sector of the economy. It covers approximately 25 per cent of total demand and therefore cuts in that area have important ramifications for the general level of demand. 
A cut in the government sector level of expenditure is likely to mean that the overall level of demand will be reduced unless there are other areas of growth such as consumer demand or investment expenditure. Certainly there seems to be no likelihood of rapid development through increased consumer demand. So it is likely that a substantial cut in government expenditure at this time will only add to the recession by reducing demand at a time when the economy is patently short of the demand needed to generate economic recovery. The recession will cause a loss of revenue to governments through the loss of tax revenue and an increase in unemployment benefit payments. The deficit will be high, and the level of unemployment will be higher than it is now. I think that this is an extraordinarily important point for the Government to bear in mind. 
If the Government is to approach the problem of a blown-out deficit by cutting real government expenditure it may still be faced with a high Budget deficit but at much lower levels of economic activity, because by cutting the level of government demand it will be pushing the economy further into recession thereby reducing receipts and increasing certain expenditure such as the unemployment benefit. It will be blowing out the deficit, and it will find itself in much the same situation as before but at a lower level of economic activity. This can go on and on. The logical sequence could lead to the point at which there would be simply no activity at all. 
This vicious circle that the Government could find itself entering at this phase of the economic cycle is a tremendously important thing for the Government to understand. I am sure the Government does not understand the situation because if it did it could not talk about the policy initiatives which it now seems to be considering. The Government does not have to take my word for this. I refer honourable members to a very important speech made by Professor Perkins of Melbourne University who I hasten to assure the suspended Minister for Finance is not a halfbaked left wing academic but is a very respected economist. Professor Perkins gave a speech at the autumn forum of the Victoria Branch of the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand. In his speech entitled 'International Monetary Influences on the Australian Economy' he said: 
A further misunderstanding about the Budget that seems to be an obstacle to the taking of expansionary measures is the still widely prevalent habit of using the actual Budget outcome in a period of recession as an indication of the extent to which the Budget is expansionary. This is a very dangerous piece of economic illiteracy in a recession; for in such periods government tax receipts are cyclically low and its outlays on unemployment benefits (and other social services) cyclically high. If one takes a large actual deficit as an indication that the budget is expansionary, or 'inflationary', one may be led to advocate policies that will make the recession even worse. For this reason, a more objective discussion would be in terms of some estimate of what the outcome of the Budget would be (at existing tax rates and unemployment benefit rates) if the economy were at some acceptable level of employment; and on such a definition the cyclically adjusted' (or 'high employment') Budget outturn for Australia has, on any reasonable estimate, been recently in considerable surplus- despite the clear need for a cyclical stimulus. 
He is talking about the full employment budget, so to speak. This is a common form of analysis in the United States of America. It is used by the Federal Reserve Bank in the United States and by economists in other parts of the world. This Government flatly denies its relevance. Professor Perkins is saying that what is relevant is the full employment budget outcome. If that is in surplus at a time when one needs to have a deficit to expand the economy one is adopting the wrong policy stance. Professor Perkins went on to say: 
If a government heeds the views of those who look only at the actual Budget outcome, it may feel obliged to increase tax rates (or reduce its spending) still further, even though the rise in the actual deficit is really an indication that its policies ought to be made more expansionary. If, instead, it proceeds to increase certain tax rates it will further depress activity, and this will lead to a rise in its outlays on unemployment, and a fall in its receipts from other taxes. It may even, with some lag, lead to the actual Budget outcome moving further in the direction of deficit; if this were subsequently again interpreted as an indication that it should tighten its policy still further, there would be no logical end to the process short of zero output 
That is a tremendously important statement. It is so obviously true that policies which this 
Government is about to pursue in the coming Budget will simply grind the economy into further recession and will blow out the deficit even further. Therefore, there will be more expenditure cuts, more recession and so on ad infinitum, if the policies are pursued long enough. This is simply economic madness. We say that the Government should totally reverse its policy stance, cease the policy of slashing government expenditure and face up to the fact that what is needed at present are expansionary policies, policies which will enable the economy to get going and in the process of economic recovery, reduce the deficit. In our view that is the important policy stance to adopt at this time. 
One may say: 'What about the inflationary implications of taking expansionary policies?' To some extent these policies can be financed by scrapping existing expenditure that is not beneficial. In this area we point to the investment allowance which in our view is not helping the economy one iota. It is especially not helping employment because it changes the factor prices between capital and labour. Also, it is an incentive to employers to engage in the use of capital intensive equipment as against the use of labour and therefore adds to unemployment. The Government itself has admitted in the recent national wage case hearings that most current investment is being made in labour saving devices- that is, in more capital intensive means of production. This sort of investment will be made to an increasing degree as technology advances. The investment allowance can be put to the greater use of us all. However, if we invest in capital intensive equipment at a time of massive unemployment and change the factor prices in this way by a very substantial tax concession it simply makes it harder for people to get jobs because employers are given greater incentives to use capital intensive equipment. 
Even if the deficit was increased the situation would not necessarily be inflationary. The important point, which the Treasurer acknowledged, is what happens to the rate of growth of the money supply and how the deficit is financed. In 1977-78 the Budget estimate for the rate of growth of the money supply was 8 per cent to 10 per cent. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research estimate for the rate of growth in the money supply in this financial year is only 6.6 per cent. That is well below the lowest level estimated by the Government for the rate of increase in the money supply in this financial year. So clearly, more expansionary policies could have been adopted without exceeding the Budget monetary target. Furthermore, increased deficits could well be covered by increased borrowing from the non-bank public, so that there is no increase in the money supply in that respect. This is a point also made by Professor Perkins in his speech to the Economic Society of Australia and new Zealand in Victoria when he said:  1 would conclude that there is no tenable objection to the taking of expansionary budgetary measures in a recession; but that they should for the most pan be financed by borrowing from the non-bank public. For the permitted increase in the money supply ought to be only in the same sort of proportion as the consequent rise in real output (together with the unavoidable and acceptable rate of increase in the price level- if any). 
We agree with that statement in the broad. We are not talking about rushing into expenditure which will increase greatly the rate of growth of the money supply and create wild inflation. No one is talking about that sort of stimulation to the economy. We are talking about the need for careful stimulation of the economy- one within broad monetary targets- and that can be done. Clearly on the face of it it can be done by cutting out certain expenditures at the moment which are counter-productive, by making some increase in the money supply which is clearly allowable on the face of the recent rate of growth in the money supply, and by financing greater expenditure by borrowing from the non-bank public. 
In this respect, the Government has foregone two cash loans which it could have had this financial year to help finance a larger deficit. We advocate that the best approach is to adopt the policy of stimulating the economy by various expenditures and perhaps by cutting some taxes- by subsidising the States so that they can cut payroll taxes or by cutting sales tax. These taxes tend to be inflationary and cuts in them would be anti-inflationary in themselves and through the wage indexation system would have a double anti-inflationary effect by reducing the amount of the price increase which would need to flow on to wages to enable full wage indexation to continue to apply. The wage indexation system can be used to wind down inflation. It is not necessarily inflationary at all, as we keep hearing from this Government. So, there are various ways in which the Government can go about stimulating the economy and reducing inflation. We strongly advocate to the Government that in fact it does that. 
One problem in the Government 's current policy stance which prevents it from doing that is its attitude to interest rates. It seems to be putting interest rate reductions first, rather than allowing them to come along with an improvement in the state of the economy. If large cuts in interest rates, such as the two 2 per cent which the Government has promised for this financial year were introduced it would make it more difficult for the Budget deficit to be financed. We would prefer to see interest rates reduced along with an improvement in the economy rather than put the reduction in interest rates first. I move the following amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time': 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the substantial increase of the deficit above its budgeted level is evidence of the failure of the Government's budgetary policy and calls on the Government to adopt policies which will generate economic recovery'. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Australian Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Disarmament. 
Have discussions been held between Australia's official delegation and representatives of non-government organisations with an interest in disarmament 
Will discussions be held between the official delegation and representatives of non-government organisations at the conclusion of the Special Session. 
Will he make a statement on Australia's approach to the Special Session. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1 ) What is the Government's current monetary target or forecast of the rate of growth of the money supply during 1977-78. 
Is the present rate of growth of the money supply on target and as predicted. 
-The Bill now before the House has three main features. Firstly, it amends the International Monetary Agreements Act to accord with recent amendments to the International Monetary Fund's articles of agreement and those amendments involve in turn 3 items: Firstly, a run-down in the role of gold as a reserve asset in the international monetary system and a concomitant, greater reliance on special drawing rights; secondly, it recognises the abandonment of the so-called 
Bretton Woods par value system involving a system of fixed exchange rates and its replacement by a loose system of floating exchange rates; and the third amendment to accord with the change in the articles of agreement is that member countries are now bound not by exchange arrangements but by exchange rate policy. 
For instance, they promise not to engage in disruptive exchange rate policies, not to engage in competitive devaluations and such like. Now there is a specific role for the International Monetary Fund to conduct surveillance of balance of payments policies of member countries to ensure that they abide by the exchange rate policy. 
A second feature of the Bill is to increase our quota in the Fund. Periodically the quota is increased for all countries to keep pace with the growth of international payments and calls on the Fund. Each increase has the effect of increasing our drawing rights on the Fund should we have need of it at some time. Thirdly, it increases our subscription to the capital stock of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Developmentthe so-called World Bank. This simply maintains the relativity between a member country's IMF quota and its capital subscriptions to the World Bank. 
The issues raised by this Bill are complex and difficult, but nevertheless very important. It is somewhat regrettable that the Government is rushing this Bill through the House without giving us time properly to consider all the issues involved. Both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are very important institutions whose operations are of increasing relevance in these times of world-wide economic dislocation. They have also attracted a great deal of criticism, particularly from the underdeveloped countries which feel aggrieved- and rightly so- at the dominance of developed countries in these international bodies. This is particularly true of the International Monetary Fund which is 77 per cent controlled by the developed countries. 
Under-developed countries consider the International Monetary Fund to be therefore preoccupied with the problems of the developed countries, and so accord its main attention to developed countries and ignore the very important problems or at least give secondary status to the very important problems of under-developed countries. The Fund is also being criticised- and not only by under-developed countries- for the toughness of the terms on which it has agreed to assist countries in balance of payments trouble and criticism has been particularly centred on its insensitive attitude towards the social and economic priorities of certain countries. 
The Fund has thus acquired the image of a rather soulless brigade of pin-striped international bankers, interested only in balancing the accounts and not caring much about who gets hurt in the process. Thus Britain and Italy have both been recipients of IMF assistance but have paid a substantial price for the adoption of these policies. Although they have substantially reduced the rate of inflation and thereby helped to improve their international competitiveness they have also involved a heavy cost in high unemployment and severe cuts in government programs. Of course it may be argued that when inflation is running at about 25 per cent- as it was in Britain and Italy at one stage recently in the last few years- drastic measures are called for and that lender of last resort assistance, such as the IMF applies, should only be granted if assurances can be given that steps will be taken to overcome the problems that lead to the need for assistance. 
Be that as it may, the IMF has thereby acquired an image as the promoter of tough economic policies. So it is especially interesting to note that the attitudes it has expressed more recently have been on a somewhat different note. In the course of the last half year the IMF and also the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development have become greatly concerned at the recessed state of the world economy, the continued massive imbalance of balance of payments accounts of the various countries, the consequent violent fluctuations in exchange rates and the ever-growing queues of the unemployed. 
In this connection I would remind the House in regard to unemployment that there are some 1 7 million unemployed in the OECD countries at the present time. The balance of payments imbalances are quite enormous. The members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries have gone from balance on current account of a surplus in the order of some $4 billion prior to the 1973 increase in oil prices to a current account balance in the order of $40 billion now, a tenfold increase. Germany, Japan and Switzerland have also been heavily in surplus on their current accounts. On the other hand, the OECD area as a whole has slipped from a surplus of around $4 billion prior to the oil shock of 1973 to a deficit of between $20 billion and $30 billion in the last few years. 
The United States in particular, of course, has been running a very heavy deficit. But nevertheless, at the same time, only the United States has shown substantial economic growth and has been able to rapidly reduce its level of unemployment. In fact in the last three years the United States has created nine million jobs, and in the last year it has created three-and-a-half million jobs, which puts it in a rather unique position. Most other countries have increased their already high levels of employment over the last few years. Australia, of course, has been amongst those and has increased its level of unemployment by more than most countries. In this situation and with the generally much lower levels of inflation applying now than applied a couple of years ago, the OECD and the IMF have been concerned to promote strategies for world economic recovery. Within that process they have urged the application by the member countries of policies that are centred not primarily on reducing inflation but on reducing inflation and unemployment. 
In an address in New York at the end of February of this year, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund,  Mr Witteveen,  made a plea for the so-called surplus countries, especially Germany and Japan which have been running huge balance of payments surpluses, to expand their domestic demand more, so as to generate a greater flow of imports from other countries, and hence assist the rest of the world to expand its level of economic activity without running into balance of payments problems. This has become known as the 'locomotive theory' and was pursued by the OECD previously. It is simply known in that direction as a result of the stronger economies being seen as able to lead the rest of the world out of recession into recovery.  Mr Witteveen  then went on in that speech in New York to advocate that other countries also should be adopting expansionary policies. I should like to refer briefly to one paragraph of that speech in which he stated: 
But I would like to add that the adoption of cautious, carefully controlled policies of expansion should now be considered by countries where the balance of payments is not much of a constraint, if any, and where domestic inflation is low or, though relatively high, would not be aggravated (because, for example, it is being held in check by conditions of economic slack). Even if the balance of payments were to show some worsening as a result of such policies, additional financing could be provided by the Fund. In this context, the Fund can be helpful in encouraging import liberalisation, exchange rate action, higher domestic investment, or other needed changes in an overall program of domestic and external adjustment. 

 Mr Witteveen, the Managing Director of the IMF, was there clearly, advocating the adoption of cautious policies of expansion not only by the so-called locomotive economies but also by most of the other countries in the developed world because of his belief that the locomotive approach would not be sufficient. This is especially the case when countries such as Germany and Japan, which are keyed to the locomotive theory, simply will not play the game for reasons which have much to do with fear of increased inflation. They have refused to generate greater economic demand within their domestic economies. Therefore, in that situation it is impossible for the socalled locomotive theory to work. 
In the case of Germany, this fear of inflation amounts almost to a paranoia which probably has something to do with the history of that country. Germany also claims that it alone cannot solve the world's problems, and that is probably true. But still, one would hope that Germany would take greater action to assist than it has done to this stage. It also claims that it has expanded its economy, anyway. That is true; it has engaged in some expansionary policies but nowhere near enough to reduce its employment level from much below the present level of 5 per cent. 
Thus, we have graduated to what has been now termed the 'convoy approach'. By this, we mean that instead of having the world economy led by the locomotive economies, we are going to have movement forward together with all countries reflating, adopting expansionary policies and, by the process of expanding their economies, taking in more imports from other countries, thereby expanding exports from other countries, so that all countries can expand their economies without balance of payment problems. But as has been pointed out, a convoy moves only as fast as its slowest member. Thus, it is essential under this approach that all countries with substantial economic slack should adopt expansionary policies, generate growth and demand for other countries' products and so gradually bring about the world economic recovery. 
More recently, there has been an added note of urgency in the IMF's call for the abandonment of deflationary policies. At the recent IMF interim committee meeting in Mexico City, the Managing Director of the Fund warned that the world faced a threat of vicious circles of deflation. By this he meant that countries with weak balance of payments were seeking to overcome that problem by maintenance of low growth, the build-up of economic slack and increased protection. But not all countries can do that at once without further severe consequences ensuing, because as they all reduce demand for each other's goods it has the effect of reducing exports all round and so creating balance of payments problems once again which, in turn stimulate more deflation to overcome the balance of payments problem, and so the vicious circle of deflation develops. 
This was very much the concern of  Mr Witteveen  in pointing to the problem of continued deflationary policies. But not only is it true of the deficit countries, it is also true of the surplus countries, because they will be forced to appreciate as some have been forced to do recently- Germany and Japan have undergone very substantial appreciations of their currenciesand this will cause a drop in demand for their exports. If they do not then generate more economic growth within their domestic economies they will face greater unemployment in their economies as well. So, we can get deflation working on both sides- for both the deficit countries and the surplus countries- if things go on as they are. 
It is tremendously important for the world that such developments do not occur. But the pursuit of current policies in many countries will lead precisely to this scenario being fulfilled.  Mr Witteveen  then put forward a growth scenario which called for all the major developed countries except the United States, which already is expanding quite rapidly and is tending to slow its rate of growth a little at the moment, to expand their rate of growth to prevent such a vicious circle of deflation and protectionism developing and to eradicate the substantial balance of payments imbalances that have been and continue to be the cause of considerable destabilisation of exchange rates. This was the subject of much debate at the IMF meeting in Mexico City, with West Germany in particular giving this Witteveen scenario a rather cold reception because it did not want to adopt a more expansionary policy, despite the fact that its current rate of inflation is only 3 per cent, well below its unemployment rate of 5 per cent. However, there was one country which was even more strident than Germany in its insistence that countries should still attack inflation first. That, I regret to say, was Australia. The  Australian Financial Review  of 2 May of this year contained an article by Robert Haupt, who was at the IMF meeting in Mexico City, in which he said: 
Among Germany's shrinking number of defenders (or non-attackers), Australia stood out in the lead. Indeed, Australia was by far the strongest advocate of fighting inflation first, outdistancing Germany itself. 
I should now like to refer to the speech made at the IMF meeting in Mexico City by the Australian representative, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who was standing in for the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  or the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  Having said that the United States should slow down its rate of growth for fear of increasing inflation and spreading it elsewhere, the Minister for Primary Industry said: 
It is now up to other countries to sustain and improve the recovery. 
Two other major 'low 'inflation countries, Japan and Germany, have undertaken a significant relaxation of their fiscal and monetary policies. We expect that, as they find scope for further action, they will take it. 
Apart from that, we must look primarily to those countriesboth developed and developing- which I have categorised as still being generally in the 'high' inflation league, although many have made important progress towards improving their inflation rates. 
We believe that these countries can improve their growth rates- but if they are to do so they will need to maintain policies whose main thrust is to bear down on inflation. 
In that way we can improve investor and consumer confidence and this will be reflected, in due course, in higher levels of expenditure and output. 
This is clearly quite different from the policies that the Managing Director of the IMF was promoting. Firstly, the Minister for Primary Industry was saying that Japan and Germany probably will take action to stimulate their economies when they feel they can afford to do so- hardly strong advocacy for them in fact to do so. In our opinion we should have been in there arguing strongly for the surplus countries to expand their economies and so generate world economic growth but we simply said, through the Minister for Primary Industry, that when they can afford to expand they will do so, and left it at that, which we felt was an appallingly inadequate proposition. Our representatives then said that the rest of the world should put inflation first and concentrate on policies to that end. That clearly contradicts the Witteveen approach. I shall read to the House a segment of the speech made at the IMF meetings by  Mr Witteveen  regarding the appropriate strategy to be adopted, under the heading of Strategy for the Period Ahead. He said: 
During an Executive Board discussion of the World Economic Outlook last January, there emerged a general consensus regarding the policies and conditions that would be necessary for sustained improvement of the world economy: a more effective functioning of the international adjustment process, and a reappraisal of domestic policies from the standpoint of encouraging noninflationary growth. 
Further on,  Mr Witteveen  said: 
Several key considerations underlie the recommended strategy. First, there is the need for greater emphasis on policies to stimulate economic growth. Without this, we cannot combat the substantial underutilisation of resources, including historically high levels of unemployment, now prevalent in many countries; nor can we raise the low rates of investment that are having a detrimental impact on growth of productive capacity. Related hazards include the slow growth of world trade, which is impairing the effectiveness of the international adjustment process (and particularly the adjustment efforts of deficit countries), and the spread of protectionist trade measures, which I regard as one of the most ominous features of the world economic scene. The existence of so many manifestations of unsatisfactory growth presents a very difficult and potentially dangerous situation. 
Another consideration relates to the continuing importance of combatting high rates of inflation in most member countries. But there would now appear to be quite a number of countries in which, because of the accumulation of economic slack and the blunting of inflationary expectations, the risks of exacerbating inflation would be minimal if cautious and well-designed policies of expansion were pursued. 
The line taken by Australia at the meeting was thus, in essence, the same line as taken by the Fraser Government in its domestic economic policy. Indeed, the Minister for Primary Industry claimed that those policies had worked in Australia, having said the inflation-first policy would improve investor and consumer confidence and that this would eventually be reflected in higher levels of expenditure and output. I shall quote from the Minister's speech at the IMF meeting. He went on to say: 
We are now starting to see this happen in Austrafia following the significant reduction in inflation and inflationary expectations that the Government has achieved. The rise in consumer prices in Australia in the March quarter dropped to 1.3 per cent and the increase of 8.2 per cent over the March quarter 1977 was the smallest over a twelve month period since the year to the June quarter 1 973. The fruits of the Australian Government's policies are now being reflected in reduced inflation and a gradual strengthening in demand and economic activity. 
The Opposition regards that as a quite remarkable statement. If the rest of the world were to be persuaded to adopt the Australian Government's approach it could hardly be induced to do so by a realistic appraisal of the Australian performance. Where is the strengthening of demand and economic activity that the Minister was boasting about? There is no mention of rapidly increasing unemployment or the falling level of the real, non-farm gross product or of the declining consumer confidence. In promoting this inflationfirst policy at a time when the world inflation level is well below the peak of three years ago the Australian Government is implying that when inflation is reduced enough growth will automatically ensue. There is no evidence to support that whatever. Certainly, Australia's economic performance does not support it. Clearly the OECD and the IMF are very concerned that,  rather than providing a basis for economic recovery, the continued pursuit of deflationary policies will lead to world economic disaster. That was what  Mr Witteveen  was talking about in his strategy for the period ahead, stressing the need for growth policies so that a disaster will not occur. In Australia the pursuit of severe deflationary policies has clearly been damaging and has involved a very high price indeed for the reduction of inflation that has been achieved. But, that is not enough for this Government; it now wants the rest of the world to adopt, or to continue to implement, those policies as well, even though if they were to do so it would be even more damaging for Australia. This stems from the fact that if we want our exports to increase then surely it is in our interests to have a higher rate of growth in the rest of the world and to avoid that vicious circle of deflation to which  Mr Witteveen  referred. 
If the rest of the world adopts expansionary policies there will be more demand for our exports, more employment in our export industries and their supplier industries and more capacity for us to expand our own economy without running into balance of payment problems. But, the low level of world economic activity has already harmed our export industries. For instance, iron ore and coal, both in volume and price, are being affected by the reduced demand in Japan for those exports. In turn, Japan has reduced demand, because of the low level of world economic activity which has much less need for Japan's manufactured exports than in times of substantial world economic activity. Quite clearly the slack economic activity level world wide has damaging effects on our export industries. It is in our interests to see, therefore, that the world economy is running at a faster rate so that our export industries can profit and we can pursue more rapid expansionary policies without balance of payment problems. But, the Fraser Government policy, as advocated at the International Monetary Fund meetings would, if adopted elsewhere, prevent that happening. It is absolutely extraordinary that it is discouraging the adoption of policies in other countries that would be of such assistance to our economy, particularly when it is concurrently seizing every opportunity to clamour for a reduction in the level of import barriers in other countries so that we can export more. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has lectured everyone within earshot all this year about the need for the European Economic Community, in particular, to reduce its trade barriers to our exports and has more latterly expanded that into a demand for reduced protection in all countries. Now he is even suggesting that Austraha might be amongst that as well. For this reason he recently made a hasty trip to Japan to put these views to the Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Fukuda,  before he went to discuss world economic issues with  President  Carter.  Mr Fraser  also lectured the leaders of various countries at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in February on this same topic and he is now overseas to say the same thing to whoever else will listen to him during his trip. Our Prime Mimster does not seem to see, or cannot understand, the fairly obvious link between the expansion of protectionism- the one pointed to by  Mr Wittervien  in his speech at the IMF meetings- and the low level of economic activity. 
Individual countries with a low level of economic activity are under much more pressure to impose higher protection than is the case when economic activity is high. Furthermore, when they are at a low level of activity the vicious circle of deflation and increased protection can so easily develop, as indeed it did throughout the world in the 1930s. It is an absurd situation therefore for our Prime Minister continually to berate the rest of the world for being protectionist in regard to our exports but at the same time to be urging them to pursue economic policies which are certain to promote the spread of protectionism. That is what he and his fellow Ministers are doing. That is what the Minister for Primary Industry did at the recent IMF meeting in Mexico City. 
The Opposition is greatly disturbed by these developments. The economic policy approach of the Government as shown by the events of the recent IMF meeting, put us in the ultraconservative camp- far more conservative than the policies being advocated by the IMF- which body, I remind the House, has hitherto been regarded as severe and conservative in its approach to economic policy. Furthermore, the economic policy being advocated by the Australian Government is so obviously opposed to the interests of Australia's export industries in particular, but also to the economy as a whole, that the Opposition feels it incumbent upon it to express its concern by moving an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. I therefore move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the policy approach advocated by the Australian representative at the recent International Monetary Fund meeting at Mexico City was contrary to that needed to generate world economic recovery and was accordingly against the best interests of this country. ' 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
What is the public sector borrowing requirement expected to be for (a) the Commonwealth and (b) the States during 1977-78. 
What were the public sector borrowing requirements of (a) the Commonwealth and (b) the States during each year since 1968-69. 
What percentage of the public sector borrowing requirement of (a) the Commonwealth and (b) the States has been budgetary borrowing during each year since 1 968-69, including 1977-78. 
-The Bill now before the House is a minor and uncontroversial piece of legislation. What it does, principally, is to provide some new exemptions from sales tax, but also to restore some exemptions that had become inoperative. It has four main provisions. Firstly, it exempts from sales tax sun screen preparations that are certified by the Director-General of Health as providing an acceptable level of protection from solar ultraviolet rays. Secondly, it restores sales tax exemption on imported goods where the exemption had become inoperative due to changes in the tariff to which they had been related. 
Thirdly, it harmonises sales tax exemptions on goods imported by persons arriving in Australia with corresponding customs exemptions, and there are two aspects of this. The first one gives sales tax exemption to Australian domiciled crews of ships or aircraft on a once a year basis. 
At present they are exempt from customs duty on a once a year basis but only passengers are exempted from sales tax. The other aspect of this harmonisation provision is that sales tax and customs duty exemption currently applies for vehicles or boats imported by a person who has owned and used the vehicle or boat overseas for 15 months, but unlike sales tax, the customs duty law provides that where the vehicle or boat has been owned for up to 14 days less than 15 months, exemption applies on a sliding scale. This Bill simply extends that sliding scale exemption for up to a 14 days shortfall to sales tax as well. The fourth provision of the Bill is designed to give servicemen from Papua New Guinea limited sales tax concessions for importation of such items as personal effects, furniture, household goods and cars, and is required under the Status of Forces Agreement between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
The provisions of this Bill are quite unexceptionable to the Opposition. We particularly applaud the first provision that I mentioned- the exemption of sun screen preparations from sales tax- because clearly skin cancer is a matter of considerable concern in this country and anything that can be done by the Government to prevent the spread of that disease is certainly worthwhile. The Opposition supports the legislation. 
-The Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Bill 1978, which is now before the House, is a legislative hoax. Under the guise of offering the States greater financial freedom as part of an ill-defined concept of new federalism, it in fact represents the implementation of the final stage of an elaborate plan to slash the size of the public sector. Although it offers the hope of lower levels of income tax, it in fact will lead to substantial increases in income tax. Although it is put forward as a step towards co-operative federalism, the fact is that the States do not want it. Although it is put forward as a matter of highminded principle, it is in fact a device to pass to the States the approbium of being responsible for increased taxes. It is accordingly thoroughly deceptive legislation, and we on this side of the House strongly oppose it. 
Before I go further, I want to protest about the way in which this Bill was brought before the House. It was introduced only yesterday afternoon. It is an extremely important measure. It is a measure which in 1975 the Government proclaimed as being a cure all for a lot of our problems. It has been talked about a lot since that time. But the Bill has been before the House for only one day, and that just simply has not allowed us sufficient time to go through the very complicated detail of the Bill. Although one can quickly grasp the concept of the Bill, it has been impossible for the Opposition to thoroughly understand it or to go through all its detail in the time which has been available to us. To proceed in that way shows a contempt for the Parliament and for the democratic process. 
The Bill abandons the uniform income tax provisions which have applied in this country since 1 942. It provides for the States to pass legislation enabling them either to implement a tax surcharge on federal personal income tax rates or, at least in theory, to implement a tax rebate. Such a surcharge would be added to the States revenue or a rebate would be subtracted from it. The Bill also provides extensive conditions to be complied with by the States in respect of their income tax legislation. It amends the Income Tax Assessment Act in various respects to provide the complicated administrative arrangements needed for the Commonwealth to collect the surcharge or apply a rebate on behalf of the States, and it gives authority to the Commissioner of Taxation to administer State tax laws. 
The implications of this legislation cannot be properly assessed by looking at the Bill in isolation. It is very much part of a total concept of federal financing and must also be looked at in the context of the Government's budgetary policy. I wish to turn then to look at the federalism package so that we can properly understand the nature of this legislation which is before us. I have mentioned previously that the new federalism concept, as it is called, was put before the nation first in September 1975. It was put forward by the then Opposition as representing a philosophical approach based on the desirability of decentralising government, giving greater freedom to lower tiers of government and increasing their budgetary independence and responsibility. That is all rather high sounding and noble stuff. 
But to give effect to these ideals there were to be two basic fiscal reforms. Firstly, State and local government were to be given a fixed share of personal income tax collections. For the States this was to be in place of the financial assistance grants from the Commonwealth. Those grants were untied in regard to the form of expenditure but were varied annually according to a formula which was periodically renegotiated. For local government the set share of personal income tax was to replace the equalisation grants previously made on a basis decided by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The second feature of it was that the States were to be given the right to levy a surcharge or rebate on Commonwealth personal income tax collections. That is what we have before us at this time. 
The first stage has been implemented, with the States now having an entitlement to 39.87 per cent of the personal income tax collections for the previous year. In order to assess properly the impact on the States of the new federalism as it operates and as it is likely to operate, we need to look at those previous arrangements. Previously there was a number of forms of payments to the States. Under the general heading of general purpose revenue grants there were, firstly, financial assistance grants. These are the grants I have already mentioned which have been replaced by the share of personal income tax. They were calculated on the basis of formula involving the population increase in each State, the increase in the level of wages, and the betterment factor. Secondly, under this general purpose revenue grants heading, there were special grants paid on the recommendations of the Grants Commission to States which claimed they were unable to function at a standard similar to that of Victoria and New South Wales. Thirdly, there was the special revenue assistance under which the Federal Government now and again gave ad hoc grants to the States to  overcome  the financial difficulties that they had. 
The second general category of grants is general purpose capital funds. Under this heading are the loan capital funds, which come from the Loan Council which comprises the Prime Minister and the Premiers of each of the States. The Loan Council approves the borrowing program for the Federal Government and each State Government, except in the case of temporary and defence purposes. These funds are utilised by the Commonwealth and the States to finance various capital works. Also under this general heading are capital grants from the Commonwealth. The Federal Government provides a proportion of these State Loan Council borrowing programs by way of interest free capital grants. A third category is specific purpose grants. These can be for capital or recurrent purposes. These specific purpose grants by the Federal Government come under section 96 of the Constitution. By this means the States are bound to follow certain expenditure patterns laid down by the Commonwealth in making that grant. So there have been quite a number of means by which the Federal Government has provided funds to the States. 
It is extremely important for everyone to understand- particularly Government supporters who do not seem to understand it, judging by the comments made both by way of interjection and by way of substantive statement in the debate a couple of weeks ago on the Stage I provisions- that what has been done by the implementation of Stage I of these new Federal financing arrangements is the replacement of only one of those many forms of Federal grants to the States. That is the financial assistance grants. There are still many other forms of grants to the States. That is quite an important point to understand, and one of which many Government supporters do not seem to have any concept. It is only the financial assistance grants that have been replaced by the personal income tax share. So what happens to the rest of these grants is tremendously important to the States. It is no good just saying that there have been big increases in the amounts going to the States by way of the personal income tax share, although that has not been a great success either. 
What is of crucial importance is what happens to all the other forms of payment. I wish to look at that matter now because they comprise 64 per cent of the total payments to the States and are therefore extremely important to the States. The previous arrangements which operated under the Whitlam Government meant that the States fared very well indeed in terms of the total amount of funds they received from the Federal Government. Between 1972-73 and 1975-76, general purpose funds increased by 64 per cent, that is, the total of general purpose grants to the States increased by 64 per cent compared with the increase in inflation at that time of less than 50 per cent. So there was a substantial real increase in general purpose funds at that time. This was despite some off-setting reductions in general purpose payments to the States as a consequence of Federal takeover of responsibilities such as the railways in Tasmania and South Australia and also despite the fact that there was an off-setting reduction in general purpose payments to make up for the fact that the Federal Government took over total financing of some State responsibilities such as tertiary education. In the same period of the Whitlam Government, specific purpose funds increased enormously. Between 1972-73 and 1975-76 they rose from $932m to $4, 153m, that is, they much more than quadrupled in that time. So the States did not fare badly at all under the Labor Government. Indeed, their revenues increased quite rapidly. 
I refer now to an article by Professor Russell Mathews, who is the Director of the Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations at the Australian National University. In a book entitled  The Politics of 'New Federalism'  he has an article entitled 'Revenue Sharing and Australian Federalism'. He says at page 48: 

 Mr W. R. C. Jay has shown that, as a proportion of gross domestic product, general purpose Commonwealth grants increased from 4.34 per cent in 1973-74 to 5.09 per cent in 1975- 76, specific purpose grants from 2.43 per cent to 4.94 per cent and net advances from the Commonwealth from 1.47 per cent to 1.97 per cent. While the States were greatly expanding their role as providers of services (education and health expenditures increased from 5.92 per cent of gross domestic product in 1973-74 to 8.61 per cent in 1975-76), their net increase in indebtedness fell from 0.45 per cent of gross domestic product to 0.35 per cent. All States except New South Wales recorded revenue surpluses in 1975-76, and all expected to be able to balance their budgets in 1 976- 77 despite significant reductions in taxation. By the end of 1975-76, a revenue surplus of over $50m was in prospect for South Australia. 
It is completely obvious from that statement by Professor Mathews that the States did extraordinarily well in the period of the Whitlam Government. Their revenues increased faster than they had ever increased before and the state of their general finances was better than ever before at the time the Whitlam Government was removed from office. So there is no doubt whatever that the previous arrangements served the States well. It has to be admitted, however, that the States were not completely satisfied- and probably they never will be. They particularly regarded the expansion in specific purpose payments as a proportion of their total funds from the Commonwealth as an irritating restriction. They were also unhappy about the financial assistance grants formula and sought improvements in that. At the June 1975 Premiers Conference, the Labor Government sought to accommodate the States in both of these respects. Financial assistance grants were in fact improved. For 1975-76 the then Labor Government added $220m to the amount provided by the then formula and also increased the betterment factor in the formula from 1.8 per cent to 3.0 per cent. Thus the financial assistance grants in 1975-76 increased by 29.8 per cent. Those are the completely untied grants from the Commonwealth to the States. So that was hardly parsimonious action on the part of the then Labor Government. 
The Labor Government also proposed that there shoud be more co-operative planning between the Federal and State governments. It proposed 10 forms of co-operative planning as a basis for discussion. I again quote from Professor Mathew's article in which he says: 
The Commonwealth proposed ten forms of co-operative planning as a basis for discussion, including: better coordination of government programs; forward planning and assessment of needs and priorities; the development of more effective machinery for intergovernmental co-operation; the collection and interchange of authoritative information on major plans and programs; and consideration of 'the scope for some relaxation of conditions attached to specific purpose assistance to the States as more satisfactory cooperative planning arrangements are developed '. 
Unfortunately those discussions did not come to anything very productive before the Whitlam Government was removed from office. But at least they show that the Labor Government did wish to achieve closer co-operation with the States and involved them more closely in program determination and funding. Indications were given of a willingness by the Federal Government to relax conditions on specific purpose grants. So it was quite an accommodating approach by the Labor Government in 1975 towards the States, both in terms of the funds made available and in terms of the moves towards greater understanding and co-operation for the future. A very conciliatory and cooperative approach was being taken. It is absurd to say that these were the actions of an utterly centralist government, as has been alleged time and time again by people opposite and by some people in State governments. 
The use of specific purpose grants, as I have mentioned, created some objections amongst the States. They were used principally to overcome the grievously neglected state of the social infrastructure. They were tremendously important to the Labor Government's program. There was no other way in which we could expand expenditure in these areas, which were tremendously important to the Labor Government- areas of enormous neglect in the period of the previous two decades under conservative governments. Those areas referred to the whole of the social infrastructurethe need to build up education, health services, urban and regional development, welfare housing, social security and welfare. All these very badly neglected areas could be assisted only by way of specific purpose grants. That is why they increased so rapidly at that time. Of course it should also be mentioned that the States took a lot of the kudos for the expenditure which they undertook with funds given to them by the Labor Government at that time. 
Under Stage I, the States, as I have mentioned, have been given a separate portion of personal income tax receipts for the year 1976-77, replacing the financial assistance grants that had been generously increased under the Labor Government. However, in the very first year in which the previous operations were changed to the new federalism concept, the new arrangements showed what can be expected in the future. The States will have to fall back on the guarantee they extracted from the Government that for the four years to 1979-80 they will not receive any less than they would have received under the revised 1975 formula for financial assistance grants, that is, the Whitlam formula. But for this guarantee the famed new federalism would have given them less in the way of general purpose revenue funds. In 1 976-77, the first year of new federalism, the States had to rely on the Whitlam formula so that they would not get any less than they would have received under that formula had it continued to apply. 
Nevertheless, these untied grants have continued to increase at a reasonable rate. That is shown in Budget Paper No. 7. On page 6 there is a table showing payments to or for the States. It shows that general revenue funds for recurrent purposes increased by 19.6 per cent in 1976-77 and by 16.6 per cent in 1977-78. Those are the figures that have been used in previous debates by members opposite to show that new federalism is great for the States and that their funds are increasing at a rapid rate. Those figures apply to less than 40 per cent of the total amount of funds going to the States. They are by no means the whole story. Other payments to the States show a totally different picture. Specific purpose payments for recurrent purposes in 1976-77 increased by only 4 per cent although they went up by 19.6 per cent in 1977-78. General purpose capital funds went up by only 5 per cent in 1976-77 and 5.7 per cent in 1977-78. That was well below the rate of inflation. Specific purpose payments for capital purposes went down by 9.7 per cent in 1976-77 and 6.5 per cent in 1977-78. 
The total payments to the States show a very different picture than the figures which have been pointed to previously by honourable members opposite for general revenue funds for recurrent purposes. Total payments to the States increased in 1976-77 by 6.9 percent. In 1977-78 they increased by 1 1.6 per cent. Over that twoyear period they have increased by 19 per cent which is less than the rate of inflation for the same period. The rate of inflation measured by the consumer price index was 23 per cent. If one takes the implicit index for government capital expenditure it was 19.7 per cent. The implicit index for government current expenditure shows that it was 2 1.9 per cent. These are price indices. Whichever index one takes, either the implicit indices or the CPI, there was a real reduction in total grants to the States in the first two years of the term of the Fraser Government. 
This is a tremendously important point to accept. It is absolutely undeniable. That is what has happened under stage I of new federalism. This is clearly because the 60 per cent of payments to the States which are additional to the proportion of income tax guaranteed to the States have been increased at a much lower rate than the general revenue grants which come from the set proportion of personal income tax receipts. The area which has suffered the most has been specific purpose grants. Furthermore, it is very likely that these grants will be cut back further in the coming Budget despite the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last September that there would be no further cuts in government expenditure. The reason for this is that the deficit is blowing out. The Government's Budget strategy has gone awry. It feels obliged to start hacking away at government expenditure once again. 
Already we know that the deficit will be approximately $3 billion this financial year. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research has estimated that the Budget deficit, if everything remains unchanged- expenditure, tax rates and so on- will be $3, 750m for the coming financial year. The Government knows that those figures are roughly correct. It is panicking and talking about the need to slash government expenditure. For the reasons I gave in an earlier debate this week on the Loan Bill we think that is bad economics, but that is not the point with which I am concerned at this time. I am concerned with the fact that it is quite clear that the Government intends to cut expenditure further, particularly grants to the States. A few nights ago, on Monday of this week, the suspended Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  made a temporary resurrection. A speech was made to the annual dinner of the Australian Finance Conference on his behalf. I should like to mention a couple of things in that speech which was presumably written on behalf of the Government as he wrote it as the Minister for Finance. He said: 
We have reached the situation now where hard decisions are having to be taken to cut into some programs which, while not unattractive in themselves, simply cannot be accommodated within a responsible overall fiscal policy . . . 
To begin with, it is sometimes forgotten that State governments are large spenders . . . Their spending too needs to be contained if the relative size of the public sector is to be reduced . . . The States will receive around $4 billion in the form of specific purpose payments in 1 977-78. 
These latter payments grew very quickly under the Labor Government- increasing more than four-fold between 1972-73 and 1975-76; and will no doubt come in for close scrutiny in the course of the search for expenditure savings for next year. 
There we have it straight from the Minister for Finance who was presumably speaking on behalf of the Government despite his temporaryor perhaps permanent- suspension that the Government intends to cut expenditure particularly in the area of  specific purpose  grants to the States. 
He was certainly talking about the need to take hard decisions as to where to cut back on programs. There is no doubt at all that he was talking about cut backs in expenditure. Specific purpose grants to the States accounted for 43 per cent of total payments to the States in 1977-78. If the Government slashes into that amount further the States will be very adversely affected as they have been already. It is in this context that the Stage II legislation is being introduced, the context of government pruning its expenditure, especially in grants to the States for specific purpose programs. It is thus putting great pressure on the States to utilise the permission they are now being given to apply an income tax surcharge. It is clear from the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that the Government intends the States to increase taxes. The Minister stated: 
However, it would seem from recent comments by some Premiers that some States are unwilling to accept a greater share of responsibility for raising the money they spend. 
Quite clearly he is suggesting that they ought to be prepared to levy taxes and have some responsibility for the money they raise. The Minister continued: 
All the Commonwealth can do, and is seeking to do, is to provide the necessary framework to enable the States to help themselves. The next step is up to the States. 
That is a clear invitation, if not an instruction to the States, to get into the arena and start levying income taxes to help themselves to the taxpayers ' money. That is what he was saying. He forgot to add the last few words. It is quite clear what the Government has in mind with this legislation. It has introduced a Bill to give the States permission to increase income taxes. It is telling them that they ought to utilise that power - 
I cannot hear myself speak with that din coming from the other side of the House. It is telling them they ought to utilise that power to increase income taxes on the Australian people. 
The honourable member just entered the chamber. He does not know what has been said before. He has not understood the first thing I have said. 
I have been correcting some of the stupidities of your speech a couple of weeks ago. 
-by leave-The Opposition regards this statement as highly inadequate. It means that instead of the full tax indexation which the people of Australia were promised a couple of years ago, we have now got down to one-third tax indexation. The House will recall that the Government, when it announced the tax cuts last year, said that they would be followed by half tax indexation. But we now see that the half tax indexation will be about onethird tax indexation, that is, an adjustment factor of 3.8 per cent compared with a price movement over the 12 months to March 1978 and the 12 months to March 1977 of 10.9 percent. That is a very substantial reduction. It means that the impact of tax indexation for taxpayers in this country is becoming less and less. 
At the same time, of course, as wage indexation is being whittled away, so too is tax indexation being whittled away very substantially. Of course this destroys the whole concept of what tax indexation is about. Tax indexation is designed to ensure that taxpayers whose incomes are adjusted in line with inflation do not move into higher tax brackets and pay a higher proportion of their income in tax. But if we whittle away at the tax indexation factor, what happens is that people move into higher and higher tax brackets. That is what is happening in this country now because of this Government's continual movement away from full tax indexation to the position where something like one-third tax indexation is now to apply. 
This statement is also highly inadequate in that it leaves totally unexplained the derivation of the adjustment factor used for this coming financial year. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  having mentioned in his statement that the movement in the consumer price index over the appropriate period was 10.9 per cent, then said: 
The basic 1978-79 tax indexation factor of 1.076, that is, an increase of 7.6 per cent, is derived from this movement by netting out the effects, included in the 10.9 per cent movement, of increases in indirect taxes, the health care changes and exchange rate adjustments made in the December quarter of 1976. 
That is the end of the explanation. We are given no figures at all, no calculations whatever, to justify a very substantial movement away from even the half tax indexation which was promised last year. That is just not good enough. The Government's move from half tax indexation to one-third tax indexation is a cost to every taxpayer in this country. Yet there is not attempt whatever on the part of the Government to give figures to the people of Australia to explain why that is being done. There is simply mention of three items: Indirect taxes, health care changes and exchange rate adjustments. There are no figures. We think that the figures ought to be supplied. In fact, it is incumbent on the Government to do so if it wants to satisfy the people as to what it is doing. Of course it ought also to give them reasons as to why such items should be netted out. That is just taken for granted. Why should those figures be taken out? Perhaps there is a logical explanation in respect of some of the items, but no attempt has been made by the Treasurer to give us that explanation. Nor has he given any figures to justify his actions. 
In respect of the exchange rate movements, I think it is very important to note the figures being used by the Commonwealth Government in the national wage cases to justify a reduction from full wage indexation. I am not arguing that the 
Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commision should not take into account exchange rate adjustment figures, but the Government is using not just the increase in import prices due to devaluation, but all increases in import prices for whatever reason. Is that what is being done here too? Is the tax indexation factor being eroded by all increases in import prices, for whatever reason at all, as is being done in the national wage case? We are not told. But that is a very important factor. No mention has been made of it. 
What about oil prices? In the national wage case, the Government has argued that increases in petrol prices stemming from the increase in the crude oil price- as a result of decisions made by this Government- ought to be discounted from the adjustment factor for purposes of calculating wage indexation. Is that what is being done here also in respect of tax indexation? We are not told. Oil prices are not mentioned. But if they are being taken into account, we would like to know about it. Indeed, if they are being taken into account, the figures are probably being calculated quite wrongly. In the national wage cases the Government argued that on the basis of an input-output model calculated by the Treasury the adjustment for oil prices ought to be 0.23 per cent in the March quarter, but that that should be netted out. But the Government did that in the same quarter as the consumer price index showed falls in petrol prices in almost every capital city because of the spread of petrol discounting, principally due to the operations of ACTUSolo Enterprises Pty Ltd. Is that what is being done here also? Has there been an attempt to net out oil price increases on the basis of some Treasury calculation of an unexplained inputoutput model, or is the Government using the consumer price index? We simply do not know, and it is totally unsatisfactory that this is the situation. The Government has a bounden duty to explain to the people exactly what calculations have been used to move from a half indexation factor to a one-third indexation factor. 
It is also interesting to note in the statement by the Treasurer that some people are not to benefit from the tax cuts half indexation arrangement as compared with the previous arrangements, with just a continuation of the old tax scale and application of full tax indexation. This is a point we have made before, but it is interesting to see that the Government now acknowledges it. Indeed, it has had to bring in a special rebate to ensure that those people who would have been disadvantaged by this new operation, by the tax cuts plus one-third tax indexation, are not worse off than they would have been had the old arrangements continued. Of course if these people are not to be made worse off, it means that other people at incomes in this range, which is from $ 127 a week to $134 a week, certainly do not get much benefit out of the much vaunted tax cuts and half tax indexation arrangements which were so important at the last election. 
Many people on relatively low wages clearly gained nothing from the tax cuts. That is now patently clear to the Parliament from the fact that the Government has to introduce a special rebate to ensure that some of them are not worse off under the new arrangements than they would have been had the old scale continued with half tax indexation. The statement by the Treasurer left a lot of questions unanswered. He has a bounden duty to explain in full to the Parliament what calculations he has used to bring about a reduction from half tax indexation to one-third tax indexation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What were total personal income tax receipts in 1975-76 and 1976-77 and what are they expected to be in 1977-78. 
By what percentage did personal income tax receipts increase in 1 976-77 in comparison with 1 975-76 and by what percentage are they expected to increase in the 2 years to 1977-78. 
What was the ratio of income tax payable to household income in 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77 and what is it estimated to be in 1 977-78. 
What was the ratio of gross PA YE payments to wages, salaries and supplements in 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1 976-77 and what is it expected to be in 1 977-78. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What was the total level of new capital raisings by the Government during 1976-77. 
How much and what proportion of these capital raisings was acquired under the 30/20 rule from life assurance companies. 
How much and what proportion of these new capital raisings was from the savings banks under the regulations governing the proportion of their funds which must be invested in government securities. 
I address my question to the Acting Prime Minister. Is it a fact that a number of Ministers took a decision in October of last year to suppress certain information concerning the redistribution of Federal electorate boundaries in Queensland? Is it also a fact that the Minister for Administrative Services subsequently misled the Parliament in answering a question on this matter in the Senate last November? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
What were the actual figures obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics Labour Force Survey referred to in his answer to question No. 614  (Hansard,  5 April 1978, page 1081) which justify the statement made at the National Press Club on 7 December 1977 that in our time total employment has risen by 1 80,000. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
What proportion of total social security payments is spent on (a) sickness benefits, (b) old age pensions, (c) invalid pensions, (d ) unemployment benefits, (e ) family allowances, and (f) other. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the total level of expenditure on research in the Australian aid program in the years (a) 1975-76 and (b) 1976-77. 
) What spending is planned on research in 1 977-78. 
How much of this actual or planned expenditure has been through bilateral and multilateral channels. 
What proportion has spending on research been as a percentage of total aid in these years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) On what date was land purchased at Broadmeadows, Victoria, for a proposed rehabilitation centre. 
) What area of land was purchased. 
What is the size of the proposed centre. 
What area is it intended to serve. 
5 ) What stage has been reached in planning. 
What is the proposed opening date. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
What was the total level of new capital raisings in 1976-77. 
) How much of this was by (a) the private sector, (b ) the total public sector, both Commonwealth and State, (c) the Commonwealth budgetary sector and (d) the State budgetary sector. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say how many people are estimated to have been killed by Indonesian forces in the fighting in Irian Jaya during recent months? 
Is he also able to say how many guerillas the Free Papua Movement is estimated to have actively involved in fighting Indonesian forces? 
Has the Treasurer seen reports alleging that the blow-out of last year's Budget deficit by 50 per cent above the estimated level resulted from either gross miscalculation of the key Budget variables or the deliberate falsification of the Budget figures so as to improve the acceptability of the Budget and disguise the revenue impact of politically motivated tax cuts? Can the Treasurer advise the House which of these explanations is correct? Is he able to assure the House that the estimates contained in this year's Budget are more reliable than they were last year? 
-The Opposition views this dispute with concern, of course, because the people of Australia are being inconvenienced by the rundown of the telecommunications system in this country. But the attitude of the Government in relation to this dispute is not in any way guaranteed to solve it. Indeed, the most likely result of the Government's action tonight is an accentuation of the dispute. The action tonight follows a pattern which has developed over previous years while this Government has been in office. Once a dispute reaches a fairly serious stage, the Government rushes into the House with an inflammatory statement, gives the Opposition little notice, if any, of that statement, and then brings on a debate in which it tubthumps, criticises and blames the unions entirely. 
As in all industrial relations matters, the blame is not entirely on one side. There are two parties to the dispute. The Government, in its arguments in this case, has done the same as it has in previous cases; it has ignored entirely the reasons for the dispute. The fact is that this dispute has a very serious basis and that is the rapid automation of the telecommunication service- the computerisation of that service at the enormous cost of $2 billion. I submit that the automation program has not been well planned in terms of its overall effects on employment and industrial relations in this country. But before I develop that argument I should like to make a couple of other points. 
Firstly, the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tonight politicises the dispute. Telecom Australia is a semi-government authority which supposedly operates independently of the Government in respect of its industrial relations. But what happened tonight? We had the Prime Minister making an inflammatory statement with the manager of industrial relations for Telecom sitting in the adviser's box. If that is not politicising a dispute, I do not know what is, because Telecom was directly identified with the Government. The union finds that it is not just in an ordinary industrial relations situation; quite clearly the Government is announcing that it is taking the union on. The Government is doing this blatantly and openly, not just through the words of the Prime Minister. The Government has openly identified itself with Telecom. So, clearly, Telecom is in no way independent of the Government any more. It is being told what to do by the Government. Clearly, the Government intends to drum up this dispute as much as it can in order to take the mind of the electorate off other issues which are embarrassing to it. This politicisation of the dispute is typical of this Government. It does not help in any way to resolve the dispute. Indeed, it will make its settlement far more difficult. One would think that it was the Government's intention to exacerbate the dispute. I submit that that really is a factor which is in the Government's mind at the present time. 
Secondly, the proposal to resort to deregistration, which apparently is in the air and is implied in the Prime Minister's statement, will not solve a single issue in this dispute. Deregistration of a union does no more than take the union out of the dispute-settling machinery. Once a union is deregistered the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has no power in respect of it. The union cannot be brought before the Commission because it is no longer a registered body. How then will the Government solve the problem? It still will have a dispute on its hands; it still will have a strike on its hands. How will it solve the problem? It will not even be able to use the Arbitration Commission to solve it. Deregistration is no solution. It simply is an act of bravado by the Government which will get nowhere in terms of solving the dispute. 
Thirdly, this dispute exemplifies governmental hypocrisy in this area of industrial relations. We have been told by the Prime Minister that the unions should accept arbitration; that we have this tradition of arbitration in this country and that we should all abide by arbitration, accept the umpire's decision and so on. But in fact what does the Government do in respect of arbitration in other areas? When it does not like arbitration it does not hesitate to say so. It has not hesitated to tell the umpire that it thinks it was totally wrong in various national wage cases over the last couple of years. The Government has condemned the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission time after time when it has made decisions in various wage indexation cases which have been opposite to those which this Government wanted. Where was the Government's support for arbitration then? Clearly, it just was not there at all. The Government simply is being utterly hypocritical in its call for the unions to accept arbitration. This Government says that unions should accept arbitration when it sees that as being a desirable process for it, the Government; but when it does not suit the Government it says that the arbitration system is not doing its job and denounces it for all it is worth. 
In fact the Government did that in this House as recently as the night of the Budget Speech. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made it quite clear that if the arbitration system produced wage increases which were more than the Government thought was acceptable, the Government would show its resentment and objection by sacking some employees of the Government and by cutting Government expenditure. Is that acceptance of arbitration? Is that acceptance of this traditional system which we have for solving industrial disputes in this country? Of course it is not. This is a thoroughly hypocritical Government in the area of industrial relations and arbitration. 
As I said earlier, the Government has totally ignored the cause of this dispute. The basis of this dispute is a tremendously important matter. It is not just a matter of a group of bloodyminded trade unionists seeking to disrupt the country and inconvenience the public. There are tremendously important issues at stake in this dispute. What is at stake is the way in which we develop this community in the future- not just in respect of Telecom but in respect of our whole approach to the economy in the future, particularly in regard to the importance we place on efficiency as compared with employment. In its Act, Telecom has an instruction that it should have regard to the efficiency of its operations. I submit that that is not the only factor to which Telecom should have regard. 
Telecom is the largest employer in the country. It has a staff of 88,000. Some 2 per cent of all wage and salary earners work for Telecom. It is a very significant employer in this country; in fact, it is the largest. Telecom will not expand its employment any more in the future if the program of computerisation of the telecommunications system goes through. Telecom staff growth will be virtually nil over the next decade or so. That means that the largest employer in the country will not be expanding its employment more than fractionally over the next decade or so, at a time when we know that we will be hit by almost a holocaust of technology in private industry. That is something we know; it is not something that we will find happening without our being aware of it. We know it will happen. We have been told from other countries that it will happen. 
Surveys in France have shown that the banking and insurance industry will lose 30 per cent of its existing staff in the next 10 years. That sort of automation, which is the basic cause of that staff loss, will occur in this country too. The fight that is presently occurring in the telecommunications industry will take place in the banking and insurance industry all over again. There will be a massive loss of jobs. Even though jobs are being guaranteed to the people who are working in the area at present, what does this mean to the young people who are coming on to the labour market and will want a job in the future? What of the young people who would like to be technicians, tradesmen or telephonists for Telecom? No jobs will be available for the young people coming on to the labour market. 
If a government is really concerned about employment it does not just tell a major employer like Telecom to go off and become super efficient. It should think about the employment consequences, and they are enormous. This Government has not given a damn thought to that. It is about time it did. All it has done is to tell Telecom to go off and become super efficient with equipment costing $2 billion which will be mainly imported. The Government does not give a damn about the employment effects. 
That is what will happen, and the Minister knows it will happen. He is doing absolutely nothing about it. It is about time the Minister got off his behind and did something about the employment effect instead of just sitting here condemning the unions and being sanctimonious about the whole matter. 
What will happen in respect of Telecom is that we will have an advancement of technology in two stages. The first stage will be ARE 1 1 and the second stage AXE. I do not know exactly what AXE stands for, but in the area of jobs it stands for the axe. That is certain. As the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  said earlier, a tremendous increase in productivity will occur. There is no doubt about that. Over the next 10 years there will be about a 70 per cent increase in technology but virtually a zero increase in employment. Sure, increased productivity is good, but it is not the only thing that is good; employment is good too. We need to be thinking about jobs. Sometimes we will have to balance off productivity and efficiency against employment. This Government is just not even thinking in those terms. If it does not think in those terms, the holocaust of technological advancement will wipe out thousands and thousands of jobs in this country and the predictions of other Liberal Ministers, such as the Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation in Victoria about a 30 per cent unemployment rate by 1990, will come true. As I have said, Telecom is Australia's largest employer. It is incumbent upon the Government to be concerned about the employment effects in the Telecom area. It is the first major area in which we will see the explosion of technology destroying jobs; but there will be other areas. 
To re-emphasise the point, I draw attention to a Government publication which has been made available to me and which is called 'Structural Change in the Labour Market'. It is a study by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. It was submitted to the Crawford committee on structural adjustment. It is not public yet but I have copies and will make one available to anyone who would like one. The study shows that this Government will find it tremendously hard to create jobs. It looks at the various sectors of the economy and asks: Where will the job growth be? It just cannot find job growth in many areas. The study finishes up by saying that we will have to resort to increasing employment in the public sector if we are to create jobs. That is totally against the thrust of this Government's actions in respect of both its macro-economic policy and its micro policy for bodies like Telecom. The Government just cannot go on destroying jobs when the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations- the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  preceded me in this debatehas said to the Crawford committee that there is a tremendous problem about the creation of jobs in this country. That is what this dispute is about. We should have no doubt about that. 
If we are to create jobs we have to be concerned, as I said, to balance off efficiency against employment. We should bear those two things in mind. It is not just a matter of job loss either. In this dispute a guarantee has been given to those who already have jobs. We have been told that ad nauseam. But, as I say, that does nothing for the young people coming on to the labour market. There will be a need for very substantial retraining for those people who do have jobs. Other problems will occur, such as loss of promotion or advancement, increased drudgery of work and reclassification of employees. All of those issues create industrial relations tensions. 
The Government should not go on introducing technology, knowing that all these tensions will develop, and then expect the unions to cop it. Clearly the unions will be very upset by a massive change in the organisation for which their members work. That has to be taken into account. I do not think it has been taken into account by this Government in the way it should have been. It is not enough simply to condemn the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association for being pigheaded and not accepting arbitration. That is hypocritical, as I have already mentioned. We must understand the very fundamental factors which lie behind this dispute. This is the first of many fights that will occur in the future because of the effect of computers on employment in this country. It will happen in area after area unless governments start to think about the problem and to be concerned to promote policies which plan for the introduction of increased technology. We are not Luddites. We are not saying that we do not want increased technology. Of course we do. We want increased technology to advance the welfare of the whole of the country, but we have to plan for its introduction. We need economic planning to introduce it. We need, in particular, micro planning in areas such as Telecom so that we can mesh in that advanced technology with stability in industrial relations and the attainment of full employment. 
Does the Government have any policy in respect of spreading work by reduced hours or anything like that? We hear nothing like that from this Government. It has no policies. It has given no thought whatever to the employment implications of increased technology. What is obviously needed if the Government is at all concerned about the matter is for it to sit down with the unions and to discuss the whole problem as it applies to Telecom and as it applies nationally. It should discuss the whole problem of technology, its introduction and the attainment of full employment. If it does not do that and if the Government remains in power- I do not think it will do so for more than another 2V4 years- it will find enormous industrial relations problems occurring in the future because there is no way the Government can go on letting computerisation wipe out jobs and expect to have stability in industrial relations in this country. 
My question, which is addressed to the Treasurer, concerns the fact that Statement No. 4 in the Budget Papers shows that the increase in employment of wage and salary earners expected by the Government in 1978-79 is 0.5 per cent- in other words, about 24,000 to 25,000 people. Is the Treasurer aware of the fact that the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in its submission to the Crawford Committee on Structural Adjustment has estimated that the work force is growing at the rate of 1 10,000? Even allowing for some growth in self-employed and contract labour, does he concede that on these figures his Budget has been framed on the expectation of an increase in unemployment of the order of 80,000? 
-For the past 35 minutes the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has attempted to persuade the nation that the Budget brought down in this House three weeks ago was a responsible and a good Budget, one which would assist the Australian people and one which should be supported by them. Of course, the Prime Minister is already aware that the opinion polls show that the people of Australia are horrified by this Budget. They have rejected it overwhelmingly, according to the public information available. He is now desperate to try to convince the Australian people that there is something worthwhile in this Budget. He does not have the fundamental elements needed for persuading the people of that. Two elements are needed if one is to sell something successfully to anyone. Firstly, one has to be a credible salesman and, secondly, one has to have an acceptable product. In this case, neither of those elements apply. The Prime Minister of this country is not a credible spokesman on the economy, or, indeed, on most other things. Secondly, this Budget is not an acceptable product to the Australian people. 
The fact is that the credibility of the Prime Minister is proceeding rapidly towards zero. This simply stems from the fact that he has broken so many promises. He has made many promises but has not upheld them. The Australian people by now must be seeing that when he says something the true interpretation of that is not what it seems to be on the face of it but is, in fact, the opposite. 
There are many of these broken promises but I should like to mention some of them. Firstly, I mention tax cuts. If there is any promise that the Australian people recall at the last election it was that a Fraser government, if re-elected, would introduce substantial tax cuts. We all remember dial-a-tax cut' that was set up in each of the capital cities and about a quarter of a million people dialled that number to see what their tax cut would be. It was certainly an issue at the election. The people of this country voted for a government which promised them tax cuts and they only had the tax cuts for a few months before they were taken away. If this Government had any credibility or honesty it would at least tell the people what their tax rises will be now by setting up 'dial-a-tax rise' in each of the capital cities so that people can find out the extent to which this promise has been broken in their particular case. This was the most obvious of the many broken promises which reduced the credibility of the Prime Minister towards zero. 
There are many other broken promises and I will mention some of them. This Prime Minister promised jobs for all who want to work. He promised to be generous to those who genuinely want to work but who cannot find work. He promised to support wage indexation, to retain Medibank, to abolish the means test, to maintain an expanded child-care program and to maintain present levels of assistance to Aborigines. All of those promises have been broken- and there are many more. They are all very important promises which were made to the Australian people by this Prime Minister and all of them were broken after the 1975 and 1977 elections. When this Prime Minister says he will be generous to those who cannot find jobs, the true interpretation of that is that he will not be generous to them, he will give them no increase in unemployment benefits. When he says that he will provide jobs for all who want to work, the true interpretation of that is that many people who currently have work will no longer have it later on. When he says he will abolish the means test, it means he will introduce an income test on pensions. When he says he will support wage indexation it means he will oppose wage indexation for all he is worth, and so on. How can we believe anything that a person like this says to the nation? I suggest to the people who are listening that the Prime Minister's comments tonight in respect of the Budget should be interpreted in that light. We cannot believe him. He has no credibility because he has told so many lies to the Australian people in the past. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of total personal income, including employers' workers' compensation contributions, was taken by (a) taxes on incomes and (b) social security contributions in(i) 1974-75 and(ii) 1975-76. 
What proportion of gross domestic product was (a) social security spending, (b) health expenditure and (c) educational expenditure, in all cases by all levels of government, during (i) 1974-75 and(ii) 1975-76. 
-I shall confine my remarks to the Australian Bureau of Statistics which was referred to briefly by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Brad field).  Any consideration of what has been happening to the Bureau proves that this Government truly is a vandalising government. Not only has it wrecked the Australian economy by driving it deeper into recession but also it is making it very difficult for anyone to correct the mess that it is making by destroying the information base upon which policies would need to be determined. If we look at what has happened to the Bureau, it can be seen that the collection of a whole array of basic economic statistics is being whittled down or abandoned altogether. This is an extraordinary vandalistic approach for any government to take. 
Firstly, I would like to look at the staff of the Bureau. Budget Paper No. 4 shows that average employment in the Bureau will fall by 11.9 per cent in 1 978-79 compared with the previous year 1977-78. The Bureau's annual reports show that between 30 June 1975 and 30 June 1977 employment at the Bureau declined by 223 or 5.7 per cent. Public Service Board annual reports show that from 30 June 1978 to 30 June 1979 with staff ceilings there will be a further decline of 4.4 per cent in the Bureau's staff. So over that fouryear period from mid- 1975 to mid- 1979 there will be a fall of 465 or 12 per cent in the Bureau's staff. Are these staff cuts simply cutting out fat or are they reducing the quantity and standard of service? I submit that there is no doubt that the latter is the true description of what is happening.  Mr Cameron,  the Australian Statistician, said earlier this year that a rise in the Bureau 's staff of 1.7 per cent in this current financial year was required at the very minimum if the Bureau was to be able to carry out its responsibilities at all properly. 
I have a minute dated 1 February 1 978 written by the Australian Statistician to the Treasurer. I will quote various parts of it. On the first page under the heading of 'Staff estimates' the Statistician said: 
I should point out that staff numbers at 30 June shown in Attachment A - 
This sets the requirements for this year and future years-  understate the increase in resources required to carry out the Bureau's forward work program. 
Then on page 9 he said: 
The estimates embody a very tough attitude to resource use by project managers and until 1 980-8 1 will not enable us to offer users significant improvements in the statistical services we provide. 
He went on later to state: 
Should staff ceilings and Budget appropriations for 1978-79 be less than those set out in these estimates, some ongoing statistical collections will have to be suspended or further action taken to curtail output. 
So there we have very clear statements from the Statistician that if he does not get the staff numbers he requires at least an increase of 1.7 per cent there will be considerable curtailment of activity of the Bureau. In fact curtailment of activity has already taken place in previous years. 
The deterioration of services began in 1976-77.I can give the Committee a short list of the cut backs in that year. In 1976-77 the Bureau ceased monthly survey of aggregate import orders, reduced the program of studies of foreign ownership and control, excluded unlisted companies from capital raising statistics, reduced the size of the sample for the agricultural finance survey, reduced the frequency of collection of data in some manufacturing production, excluded small businesses from surveys of manufacturing production and reduced samples for surveys of earnings and hours. That was just for 1976-77. 
An even much more important decision was taken in that year. I refer to the decision to postpone for one year the processing of the census and then to process only 50 per cent of it. This was an extraordinary decision- a decision which greatly reduced the value of the census. It was a shocking waste of public money spent on conducting the census in the first place. The rationale was to save $6m in 1 976-77 by not processing the census in that year and to save $2m eventually by processing only half of it. The census is of tremendous importance to this country. It is the principal mechanism for the collection of indispensable demographic, social and economic data. The 1976 census was especially important because for the first time it asked questions in regard to income. It is quite clear that the decision to postpone treatment of the census was a shocking one. 
The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation considered this matter and in tabling its report on the Commonwealth Government and the Urban Environment the  Chairman  of the Committee said: 
The Committee received conflicting evidence on the adequacy of using a SO per cent sample but finds it ludicrous to collect 100 per cent of the data at significant cost and effort, abandon half of it and take what appears to have been a hasty decision to process the other half. The Committee is disturbed at the decision to delay processing. The data contained in the census is vital to many areas of public and private enterprise and the older the data gets the less valuable it becomes. 
The  Chairman  finally said: 
The decision was shortsighted and taken without proper recognition or understanding of the implications for the efficiency of decision making at all levels of government and the private sector. We believe that it should not happen again. 
That certainly is the attitude of the Opposition. It was decided earlier this year that the cutbacks would apply for 1978-79. This decision was leaked out while the House was in session before the winter recess. The cutbacks firstly were in relation to foreign ownership and control. If there is any area for which it is important to collect data one would assume it would be in respect of the extent to which our industry is owned by people in other countries. Surely that is an important area of statistical collection. But this Government is abandoning collection of statistics on the extent of foreign control of our industries. It has disbanded the whole section of the Bureau which deals with foreign participation. That was an absolutely appalling decision. It was a political decision taken by the Treasurer after he was given a list by the Statistician of areas that could be chopped back given the limited resources that had been made available to him. The Treasurer chose foreign ownership and control and job vacancies. Surely job vacancies is an important area of statistical collection. But, no, this area is also to go. 
Job vacancy statistics are collected by the Commonwealth Employment Service. But the CES collects statistics only on job vacancies that are notified to it by employers. Many employers do not bother to notify the CES of their vacancies. So if we want the relevant statistics for employment policy it is important to know how the overall trend of vacancies is going. But this Government is abandoning collection of those sorts of statistics. It is therefore giving us a good indication of the importance it places on employment policy. On the other hand, the Government has decided to conduct a montly labour force survey to ascertain unemployment statistics. The CES already collects monthly figures. The Government clearly thought that by conducting a monthly labour force survey instead of a quarterly survey it would be able to produce each month figures which would be less than those collected by the CES. But that in fact has not been the case. The labour force survey figures have moved in much the same degree as CES figures and in many months have been higher than those published by the CES. This operation involved 45 staff at a cost of $2. 3m per annum. Given the other priorities, it seems an extraordinary waste of funds to have spent money on a monthly collection instead of a quarterly collection. 
The Government has also decided that it cannot conduct any more surveys of household income and expenditure. We had such surveys in 1974-75 and 1975-76. It was intended then to conduct such surveys yearly but now the Statistician in his minute to the Treasurer says: 
Resource pressures have prevented any further surveys being undertaken and no such surveys will be done in this year or in any future years until there is an increase in the resources available. 
The household income and expenditure survey is extremely important. It provides data for economic and social planning and for assessing the need for and the impact of housing, education, welfare and taxation policies. Also it is absolutely basic to have such surveys if one is to be able to adjust the regimen and weighting of the consumer price index from time to time. This Government says inflation is its No. 1 objective. However, by not holding surveys of household income and expenditure it will not even know how inflation is moving. It will not be able properly to measure inflation because increasingly the regimen and the weighting of the consumer price index will be out of date if such a survey of household income and expenditure is not undertaken. 
The Statistician is clearly quite disturbed about this. On page 7 of his minute he says: 
Faced with the task of getting required resources down to a level I have judged likely to be accepted by the Government, I have excluded the survey from these estimates but draw that omission to your attention in particular because of the effect on the consumer price index. In my judgment we will be able to do a patchwork job revising and up-dating the index in the light of various sources of indirect information but it will be far less satisfactory than if survey results were available. 
This Government also has not gone on with the consumer finances survey. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-With the co-operation of my colleagues, I will conclude the points I was making earlier in respect of various areas of service which have been cut back by the Australian Bureau of Statistics as a result of the limitation of resources which has been applied to it by the Government. I had indicated a number of areas which have been cut back this year. A further one is the consumer finances survey. The Australian Statistician wants to conduct such a survey because most countries in the developed world have such surveys. Indeed various countries in the underdeveloped world have such surveys. Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea and Botswana all have had consumer finances surveys. These surveys collect information on the debts and assets of different types of households. That is basic information which any government which wants to know what is happening in the economy in order to adopt appropriate policies to improve the economy should have. But we have never had such a survey, and the Bureau is unable to conduct such a survey this year or in any foreseeable year because of the limitation of resources. 
A further area of cutback is the agricultural finance survey. This survey has been conducted annually over the last several years and its results are used by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Australian Bureau of Statistics itself for national accounting estimates. This survey will now be conducted every three years instead of every year, indicating another important area of cutback. There is also likely to be, in respect of 1978-79, an abandonment of the manufacturing industry census. The Bureau conducts annual censuses in regard to agriculture, mining and manufacturing. It also wants to run periodic censuses in regard to other parts of the economy so as to provide basic information on the whole structure of Australian industry. According to the  minute to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the Australian Statistician wants to run a census on construction for 1978-79, on the retail trade industry for 1979-80 and on the transport industry for 1980-81. But scarcity of resources means that other activities will have to go to fit in these censuses. According to the minute it seems that in 1978-79 it is the manufacturing industry census which will have to go. On page 4 the Statistician states: 
If it still appears in 12 months time that running a construction census will require an increase in total staff requirements of 3.7 per cent, and that that is more than the Government at the time will agree to, I foreshadow a probable recommendation to you that no manufacturing census be held in respect of the year 1978-79. That would almost certainly bring strong protests from the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Bureau of Industry Economics, the Industries Assistance Commission and from industry organisations. 
So there we have another important area of cutback. Also, as the minute makes clear, there are various ongoing projects to which significant staff reductions will be applied in this financial year. They are in the areas of manufacturing, motor vehicle registrations, motor vehicle accidents, mining, agriculture, construction, internal trade, overseas participation, manpower and computer services. Total staff cuts for these ongoing projects are 130 people. Again, the Statistician says that this will damage the service that the Bureau can provide. On page 8, he says, having outlined these cuts in ongoing projects: 
These cuts will impose severe pressures on project managers in the Canberra and State Offices and will necessitate a curtailing of statistical output. 
So it is quite clear from that minute that there will be a diminution in the services as a result of these staff cutbacks. There have also been various requests for assistance that the Bureau has been unable to meet, quite apart from the program that it wishes to pursue. Attachment C to the minute sets out examples of requests that the Bureau has been unable to meet. I will read these examples to the House. They are: 
An Economic Census of the wholesale trade sector was planned in respect of 1 977-78, but the then Treasurer did not approve its inclusion in the estimates. The Minister for Industry and Commerce expressed regret at the decision. Reinstatement of the census is not provided for in these estimates. 
The ABS survey of tourist accommodation has omitted hotels without facilities, in order to cover caravan parks. 
The Department of Industry and Commerce asked ABS to undertake surveys of manufacturing industry, but so far it has been possible to collect information only on sales and expected sales; surveys of expected utilisation of capacity or expectations of employment, prices and costs have still to be commenced. 
The Department of Environment Housing and Community Development asked that we extend the present collection of information relating to construction activity. 
State Governments have asked that ABS undertake estimates of private capital expenditure, including expectations, in each State. 
The South Australian Government has asked that ABS compile information on interstate trade to and from South Australia. 
Several State Departments have asked that ABS collect information on quarterly or annual production in their State. Several State Departments have asked that ABS compile input-output tables for their State. 
There is more or less continuous pressure to improve the accuracy detail and timeliness of the national income and expenditure accounts. 
Northern Territory politicians, employers and unions have asked that a consumer price index be compiled for Darwin. 
The most recent set of input-output tables relates to the year 1968-69. Requests have been received from the Departments of Industry and Commerce, Trade and Resources and the IAC for more recent data. 
EHCD Department asked ABS to assist in its Housing Allowance Experiment by undertaking survey design, sample selection and the conduct of interviews with selected households. 
Those are all examples given by the Bureau of requests from other government departments, Federal and State, for the provision of information which the Bureau is unable to provide because it does not have the resources. It is quite clear that there is a whole range of demand for information from other Federal Government departments which a clamouring for this information but cannot get it because the Bureau is absolutely hamstrung by its lack of resources. This is a very, very serious situation indeed. There has not only been this very substantial cutback in what the Bureau itself wants to do but also in this other area of providing information for people who feel that there is a shortcoming in the availability of this published data and which need this information to be produced. The Bureau just cannot do it because it does not have the resources. The Statistician is disturbed about this inability to meet the requests of departments and State governments. On page 9 of the minute he says: 
The ABS has not been able to respond to many of the requests received from State Government bodies and it is open to question whether the Commonwealth is meeting its obligations under the Integration Agreements to provide statistical services to the States. 
What he is saying there is that under the integration agreements which were reached in the mid- 1950s- 1956 to 1958the Commonwealth undertook to supply to the States the statistical services that they need. Five of the six States had statistical bodies which were then integrated into the Commonwealth Bureau of Statistics on the  proviso that the Federal Government would continue to meet the States' needs through the Australian Bureau of Statistics. In fact that is something which clearly is not happening. The examples that I gave showed a number of requests from State governments which the Bureau is not able to meet. Here we have the Statistician saying that not only is the Bureau not able to meet those needs but the situation is now so bad that it is doubtful whether the Commonwealth is meeting its obligation under the integration agreements to provide statistical services to the States. This coverage of the inability of the Bureau to meet the demands upon it and to undertake proper statistical services in this country is, I think, an appalling indictment of this Government. 
It is a government which says that it wants to make the economy more efficient. One way in which the economy can be made more efficient is to have statistics upon which the Government can measure the impact of its policies and can devise policies on a sound basis. If the Government does not even bother about providing an information base which will enable it to monitor its programs and to establish whether its resources are being utilised efficiently, how the goodness will it have an efficient economy? This whole situation is a perfect example of being penny wise and pound foolish. As I said in opening, what this Government is doing is not only vandalising the economy in its general macroeconomic policy but, by destroying the information base, it is making it infinitely more difficult for any future government to clean up the mess that this Government is creating. 
-I did not intend to enter into this debate, but since the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  came into it at the last minute I would like to make a few points as a contribution to this debate from the Opposition. Firstly, it is perhaps ironic that one of the facilities in Melbourne on which the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. is concentrating its activity is now in my electorate. So I suppose I am on the receiving end of a change which has had quite adverse effects for the electorate of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  Since the level of unemployment in my electorate is quite high, I suppose that the change is a good thing for my electorate. Nevertheless, I can see the point which concerns the honourable member greatly. When a factory closes and causes some 380 people to lose their jobs it is indeed a tragedy for the people concerned. 
We on the Opposition side of the House are concerned that it is happening not only in the electorate of Lilley but also in electorates all over the country. Over the last couple of years we have been saying to the Government that its policies would lead to this kind of action. Indeed, we are now seeing it at a greater rate than ever before. The level of economic activity now has fallen to the lowest level since the 1930s. It is inevitable that we will see closures such as the one mentioned- a rationalisation of production, as it is often called- with companies concentrating their activities in those plants where they have the greatest investment and where they feel that the activity would be the most economic. If this is going to happen- and indeed it will happen in the current economic situation in this countrythen there are various responses that governments ought to make. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  so clearly put it, one is to have a different macro-economic policy which would increase the overall level of demand, including demand in the vehicle industry, thereby generating a higher demand for tyres and providing much more work for existing tyre factories. That is one way in which we can overcome the problem; but no honourable member on this side of the House is asserting that that is the be all and end all of economic recovery in this country. 
Time and time again we have called for the adoption of structural adjustment policies. When we were in government we introduced a number of structural adjustment programs which have been abandoned by the present Government. No such programs operate now. We provided income maintenance and relocation assistance. Whilst I suppose a relocation assistance scheme of some sort operates now and that could be regarded as providing some kind of assistance, income maintenance assistance has gone. The income maintenance scheme was an important scheme which helped some 30,000 people who had lost their jobs through competition from imports while the Labor Government was in office. We cared for those people by way of that income maintenance scheme. No such scheme is in operation now. 
We provided also special assistance to nonmetropolitan areas- the so-called SANMA scheme. That scheme has been abandoned by the present Government. Under that scheme subsidies were provided for industries in rural and non-metropolitan areas. Some grantsfeasibility study grants and so on- were made under that scheme and the scheme was of some assistance. I am not suggesting that it made a tremendous difference. It was more or less a pilot scheme, but at least it represented a step in the right direction. 
Another important scheme was the Regional Employment Development scheme- a job creation program- which was scorned by the then Opposition and abandoned by it when it came into government. That was a tremendously important program. It was the sort of program that a government should have, not just in periods of high unemployment but always if it is going to try to provide full employment. There will always be areas in which an unemployment problem is opening up, even when the economy generally has something like full employment. There will always be an industry or a firm which runs into trouble and, because it is important to a particular area, an unemployment problem is created in that area. In such a situation a program such as the Regional Employment Development scheme or other forms of job creation programs could be utilised if the Government had a will to provide jobs so that the unemployment effects could be cushioned in that area. No such scheme operates today. 
One of the major scandals of our time is that a government, going through the highest level of unemployment in our post-war history, has no job creation programs in operation. That is a national scandal and something of which all honourable members opposite ought to be ashamed. They ought to be ashamed to be part of a government which is so uncaring for the unemployed that it will not even operate a job creation scheme of that kind. It is important for a government, if it has any concern about unemployment, to believe in the concept that the government should intervene to make sure that jobs are created, either through a job creation program or, as the honourable member for Lilley properly suggested, through capital works programs. 
Part of the alternative Budget proposals presented by this side of the House was the proposal to expand capital works programs so that we can create jobs. We believe that we should try to create jobs particularly in areas where there are the highest levels of unemployment. It is important that that sort of scheme would create jobs not only in those areas with a high level of unemployment but also elsewhere as well. As every honourable member is aware, capital works programs have a very high multiplier effect. 
Almost all of the materials used in capital works programs are produced locally; very few imported materials are used. Therefore, there is a high multiplier effect of job creation in other industries, such as the building supplies industries in providing bricks, glass, cement, steel, wood and so on. Capital works programs have enormous flow on effects. The economy can be stimulated generally and a lot of jobs can be provided everywhere by indulging in capital works programs. 
I think that the point made by the honourable member for Lilley in that respect was quite correct. It was not entirely original; we on this side of the House have been saying it for some time. But I agreed with him when he said it here today. It is something that the Government ought to be doing. I hope that more honourable members on the Government side of the House think the way the honourable member for Lilley thinks and that they will push the Government into adopting some kind of program to expand capital works so that we will be able to stimulate the economy, to provide jobs in the areas where they are most needed and to start to get the economy moving back towards full employment. I must say I do not see any sign of that happening at the present time. 
I do not think either that there is much sign of the Government adopting structural adjustment programs and the associated manpower programs which will be required if we are going to get back to a full employment situation. That is tremendously sad because we all know that we are going to be faced with greater and greater pressures for structural change as a result of the ever-growing challenge to our manufacturing industry from the growing manufacturing industry capacity of South East Asia. That is something that we know about. We know this is going to happen for the rest of the century and that it is going to get worse and worse. 
We know that we have to respond to the pressure. The decision we make as to how we should respond to that pressure will be one of the most important decisions that a government of this country will make in the next few years. If we make the wrong decisions we could finish up being one of the poor countries of the world. If we make the right decisions we could finish up still being a quite wealthy country and being able to provide full employment. But whatever we do, it is going to require enormous structural adjustment programs so that we can face up to the changes which we know are going to be foisted upon us, like it or not. If those programs are going to be in operation in the near future they have to be worked out now. There is very little sign that they are being thought about in great detail by this Government. 
Certainly some worthwhile activity seems to be going on in some areas. This is particularly true of the Department of Productivity, which has some innovative ideas, but I think that they are fairly limited at this stage. From what one can see of the activities of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Industry and Commerce, they do not seem to have much concept of the need to develop very important structural adjustment programs, which we will need to obtain full employment in the future. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said, the Opposition feels that the honourable member for Lilley is on the right train in what he has said in this debate but we do feel that he is being a little hypocritical in supporting a government which is not adopting the kinds of policies which he suggested are needed, either in respect of macroeconomic policy orin the micro-economic area. 
I ask the Treasurer: In view of the already announced numerous amendments to the Budget and the public statement by a Government back bencher that there will be more, will he consider assisting members of this Parliament and the general public to keep up with these amendments and revisions by reissuing the Budget Speech and associated statements in a loose-leaf form so that redundant pages can be easily discarded and revisions more easily inserted? 
-At the outset of these proceedings I express on behalf of the Opposition our great concern at the way in which this debate has been brought on. There Has been no discussion with the Opposition about not going ahead with the matter of public importance and also, the way in which these Bills have been brought on today without giving the Opposition time to put them before a party meeting, breaches the normal understandings of the way in which Bills will be handled before this House. There has been no explanation of why this is being done. Is it because the Government is so embarrassed about its own legislation that it does not want to have it debated or to have it on the Notice Paper any longer than is absolutely necessary? This would seem to be the case. To say the least it is utterly discourteous of the Government to give us no reason whatever for proceeding in this fashion. The Bills which have been brought before the House in this way give effect to the Government's income tax amendments announced in the Budget and therefore one can understand why the Government is so anxious to get them through the House and out of the way. 
They are not exactly the highpoint of the Government's political standing in this country at the present time. The effect of these Bills is to increase considerably the income tax burden on Australian taxpayers, particularly upon those who are least able to bear that burden. The Opposition approaches these Bills with absolute opposition to many of the proposals contained therein. In our view they amount to a cynical repudiation of past promises to the Australian people. In their overall effect they are economically damaging and will further intensify the recession. They are also quite inequitable in that their major impact is on low and middle income earners. The principal feature of these Bills is the imposition of an income tax surcharge for this financial year in that there is to be an increase in the rate of tax applying to income taxpayers in this country of21/2 per cent from 1 November to give effect to a 11/2 per cent increase for the whole financial year. This measure will raise some $562m in this financial year and is therefore an important measure. 
Consideration of this surcharge reveals three major characteristics of this Government: Firstly, its utter dishonesty and untrustworthiness; secondly, the absurdity of its economic policy; and thirdly, its absolute determination to redistribute income on a more inequitable basis. In regard to the dishonesty aspect, this Government has emphasised over the last year- certainly in the Budget of 1977 and in the period thereafter, right up until the elections- that the people of Australia could look forward to very substantial tax cuts. In the Budget last year the then Treasurer proclaimed the new tax arrangements as 'the most revolutionary change yet made to Australia's system of income tax '. He also claimed that ' the new system goes a long way to restoring the monetary incentive for individuals to work and work harder, to take on added responsibility, to work overtime' and so on. In the end result, this great new system, this revolutionary change, the greatest revolution in the tax system since Federation, lasted only half a year. The tax cuts came in in February of this year and in August of this year the Government announced their total abolition for many taxpayers and a very substantial reduction for the rest. 
However, it was not only a matter of what was said at the Budget last year. If there is one pan of the election last year which would stick in the mind of each person in this country it would be that the Government parties went to the polls in 1977 saying to the Australian people: 'If you elect us you will get substantial tax cuts'. The Government went out of its way to embed that in the mind of each voter in this country. No Government spokesman spoke without mentioning that in the course of the election campaign. It was the focal point for its advertising campaign. I am sure everyone recalls the enormous advertisements that the Government parties had in the newspapers with hands showing fistfuls of money, fourteen $5 I think were counted, and the caption that this represented the Government's tax cuts. These are the kinds of things that were done at that time. It was embedded in the mind of the electorate that a return of this Government meant substantial tax cuts. These were grossly exaggerated but the eventful impact was probably to make sure people understood that point. 
To make sure the electorate understood what it meant for it the Government parties established a 'dial a tax cut' system in every capital city. You could ring a number and find out what your tax cuts were going to be. Many people did that. I understand some quarter of a million people rang those numbers to find out what their tax cuts were going to be. This was a very important issue in the last election. Now what has happened? This Government has decided totally to repudiate its promise to the Australian people, a promise which was the key point in its election policy last year, by imposing an income tax surcharge which will totally wipe out the tax cuts for the majority of taxpayers, particularly those taxpayers who are lower middle income earners, and substantially reduce the tax cuts for the rest. To demonstrate this point, I wish to have incorporated in  Hansard  two tables relating to the 1 February tax savings to the tax increases which will come as a result of the imposition of this tax surcharge. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810102_18_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111131197810102_19_1.jpg"></graphic>

-These tables show for taxpayers without dependants and for taxpayers with a dependent spouse the result of the imposition of the income tax surcharge and compare that with the saving to taxpayers at various income levels as a result of the tax cuts introduced in February. They show that taxpayers in the range of $1 14 a week to $238 a week- some 55 per cent of all taxpayers- will totally lose their tax cuts which were brought in in February this year in that the increases in their taxes from 1 November will be more than what they had their tax reduced by in February of this year. It is a tremendously important step that this Government is taking, a step which not only repudiates its number one election promise but also represents, in respect of many taxpayers, a substantial impost on their tax liability. 
That is not the end of the story because when the tax cuts were announced we were told that there was going to be only half tax indexation; as the Government was being so generous in giving these tax cuts it could not afford to go ahead with full tax indexation, there would only be half tax indexation. The tables do not take account of the fact that there is only half tax indexation introduced nor of the fact that half of this tax indexation- so called- really only becomes onethird tax indexation because in the price index used by the Government for tax indexation purposes there were taken out a number of price increases due to devaluation and indirect tax increases before the Government halved that to get the tax indexation factor. It finished up being one-third tax indexation. These tables do not even take account of that. When we take account of the fact that the tax indexation factor was much less than full indexation, the tax payers generally are even worse off than is shown in these tables. This represents a massive fraud on the Australian electorate. It is an utter repudiation of promises made in the last Budget and, most particularly, at the last election. It emphasises the total untrustworthiness of this Government. One just cannot believe anything it says. We have seen example after example of broken promises from this Government following the elections of 1975 and 1977, but the surcharge is the most blatant and most cynical of all those broken promises. It is simply no defence to claim that the surcharge is only temporary and that it is just something which is to apply for a few months only. How do we know whether that is true? 
Sure, it is in the legislation, but the Government can easily introduce new legislation; that is nothing. We have only the word of the Government for it, and the Government's word is worth nothing because we cannot trust anything it says. If the Government says to us that this is only a temporary surcharge, on its past record the most likely assumption we can make is that in fact it is going to be a permanent feature, because every time it says that something is so we find out that it is quite the opposite. Let us look at the promise to support wage indexation, the promise to retain Medibank and the myriad other promises which have been discarded by this Government. We just cannot take the word of this Government on anything and, as I say, this surcharge is the most blatant example of the cynicism of this Government. In being so cynical it is demeaning not only itself- goodness knows that it is doing that- but also the parliamentary institution and the parliamentary process. 
-It is. The Government did it in no mean order in 1975. By being such cynical people Government members demean the whole process of parliamentary democracy and make this rather fragile flower even more fragile and liable to permanent damage in the future. 
As I mentioned, another aspect of this income tax surcharge which reveals the Government's characteristics is the absurdity of its economic policies. The tax surcharge will further depress demand. Anyone can understand that if we take $560m off the Australian people they are going to have that much less money to spend and, therefore, there  is  going to be less consumer demand. The savings ratio is about IS per cent. Therefore, 85 per cent of that $560m would have been spent if the Government had not taken it off the people and would have had the effect on the economy of increasing economic activity and at least doing something to arrest the growth of unemployment. 
I will be coming to the deficit. The Government's policy is clearly depressing demand; that is obvious. Professor Neville at the University of New South Wales, who is one of our foremost fiscal analysts, has assessed that this income tax surcharge and the associated tax measures contained in these Bills will depress gross non-farm product by 0.6 per cent, which is a substantial amount given that the Government is hoping- I emphasise the word 'hoping' as distinct from the word 'estimating'- for a growth of something like 4 per cent. The loss of 0.6 per cent is an important loss and is something which this Government seems not to have taken into account. It is tremendously important that we get an increase in consumer demand if we are to have economic recovery. Consumer demand represents about 60 per cent of total demand in the country. With the government sector being reduced in real terms- that is an important area of demand but there is no growth there- with investment in the private dwelling sector of demand being at an abysmally low level and with exports being low, where are we to get economic growth if it does not come from the consumer sector? Perhaps it may come from investment in fixed capital equipment, but that is only one sector of demand. We must have growth in consumer demand if we are doing all these other things. But this tax surcharge and the associated tax measures make that much less likely to happen. Therefore, this is an enormous contradiction in this Government's economic policies. The Government's arguments to the contrary are quite pathetic. It is claimed in Statement No. 2 of the Budget Papers that this tax surcharge will have only a marginal effect on consumption, but there is no substantiation of that; it is a mere assertion. In talking to the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures two days after he brought down his Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
I would like to emphasise my belief that industry should not fear its effects upon consumer demand. Firstly, it is temporary, and the necessary legislation will bring it to an end on 30 June next; there is no reason, therefore, why it should have an ongoing effect on consumer confidence or expectations. 
The reality is that consumer confidence and expectations have been crashing all through this calendar year. Since the beginning of this year the indexes of consumer sentiment published by the Melbourne University Institute of Applied Economic Research have been showing a continual decline. The growth in retail sales has been minimal, so there has been no sign of consumer confidence. In fact quite the contrary is the case. Since the Treasurer brought down his Budget we have seen a further decline in consumer confidence to the lowest point in ages. I refer to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of about a week ago headed 'Consumer confidence down sharply in August '. It reads: 
Consumer confidence, which has been on a downturn since January, suffered a further sharp drop in August, according to the latest survey by the University of Melbourne 's Institute of Applied Economic Research. The August drop was the sharpest ever recorded since the institute first began its survey in early 1973 . . . The institute's index of consumer sentiment dropped a substantial 12.2 points between the July and August surveys to its present level of 9 1 .2. This is the second lowest reading recorded by the Institute . . . The survey shows a major downturn in consumer confidence in Australia in 1978 . . . 
So we can see from this that it is absurd to suggest that the Budget and the income tax surcharge would not damage consumer confidence. They have had a disastrous effect on it and, therefore, on consumer demand and on the prospects of economic recovery in this country. This is a tremendously serious matter which we have under discussion. This Government, I think, has failed abysmally to understand the effects of its economic policies. It seems surely most unlikely that consumers will spend strongly when real disposable income is being reduced by the tax surcharge and their confidence has been shattered. 
The Government's reason for proposing the income tax surcharge is that it says it has to get the deficit down, but this Government has a deficit phobia. Of course, deficits are not unimportant if they spiral out of control. That has important implications for monetary policy, but it does not automatically follow that an increase in the deficit necessarily means an increase in inflation. Indeed, last year we saw the deficit increase by $600m, but there was a very substantial decline in inflation. Inflation fell from 13.3 per cent in 1976-77 to 7.9 per cent in 1977-78, and that was with an increase in the deficit of $600m. So it is absurd to argue, as the Government does, that there is some sort of black box relationship between the deficit and inflation and that if the deficit goes up a few hundred million it will mean an automatic increase in inflation. It just does not work like that. The simplistic notion that the Government has is just utterly without foundation. The reason that last year's deficit blew out from $2.2 billion, for which the Government budgeted, to $3.3 billion was that the economy was more recessed than the Government expected and, therefore, there was a great shortfall in revenue. That is why we have such a big increase in the deficit. 
What the Government is doing now with this income tax surcharge and other measures is squeezing the economy further, trying to raise revenue to reduce the size of the deficit, but it is making it more likely that the deficit will blow out again because revenue will fall short through lack of economic growth. Therefore, next year there will again be a blown out deficit, lower levels of economic activity and more pressure to increase taxes to try to get the deficit down. We are in an absurd situation. It is a vicious cycle of deflation which will ruin this country if the Government does not mend its ways in the near future. 
Another aspect of this Government's characteristics which has been revealed by the income tax surcharge is its determination to redistribute income more inequitably. The February tax cuts, as I have already mentioned, were highly inequitable. The tables which I have incorporated in  Hansard  show that taxpayers on average weekly earnings of around $200 saved only $3.07 a week as a result of the tax cuts in February of this year, compared with tax savings for people on $2,000 a week of $1 12 a week. Just think of that for a moment. In February of this year the Government gave a person on $2,000 a week a tax saving of $ 112 a week, but a person on $200 a week- round about average weekly earningswas given a tax saving of a whole $3 a week. So, quite clearly, the Government was biased very much towards the high income groups. This is shown up by the fact that 40 per cent of the total benefit of the tax cuts went to the top 10 per cent of income earners. In fact, 15 per cent of the benefit went to the top 1.4 per cent of taxpayersthose earning $30,000 a year and over, or at least those declaring to the Commissioner of Taxation that they were earning that much. So we can see that these tax cuts have been highly inequitable in that they have given a vast amount in tax savings to the people on the higher income levels and miserable amounts to the people on the lower income levels. That is the effect of the February tax cuts. Now that this tax surcharge is being introduced we find that it has its major impact on the people on lower incomes and its least impact on the people on higher incomes. So the higher income earners have saved again. Everything this Government does is tinged by this process of redistributing income from the low and middle income earners to the high income earners. It is not just so with taxes: It applies in a whole range of areas. But it is particularly noticeable with taxes. 
As I have mentioned, the tax surcharge is highly inequitable. The table that I mentioned shows that all taxpayers earning between $114 and $238 a week lose all their 1 February tax cuts, whereas a person on $2,000 a week, with a tax saving of $ 1 12 a week after the February tax cuts, will still gain $62 a week after the tax surcharge has been imposed. So he is much better off than a person on a lower income level. The combined effect of the tax cuts and the tax surcharge is to leave him in a much improved position compared with his position before the tax cuts. But for the ordinary wage and salary earners in this country, this is not the case: They are worse off than before. A massive redistribution is involved in these tax cuts and the tax surcharge. This is extremely revealing of the Fraser Government's characteristics and it shows why people are turning away from the Government in droves. 
There are a number of other measures in this legislation to which I will quickly refer. The taxation of annual leave and long service leave on a new basis is a very important measure, and one which is strongly opposed by the Opposition. What is proposed by this legislation is that all annual leave payments on termination of employment after 15 August will be taxed at the rate of 33Vi per cent and all long service leave that accrues after 1 5 August will be taxed at the rate of 3 3  i  per cent when paid on termination of employment. The present position is that such payments are only taxable to the extent of 5 per cent of them being included in assessable income for tax purposes. The result of changing the legislation in this way is to gain a lot of revenue for the Government. The annual leave change will raise $70m in revenue this financial year. The long service leave measure will raise only some $6m because this measure is being phased in. 
For the individuals involved, the impact is very important. I take as an example the worker on $200 a week who has his employment terminated and who leaves with four weeks annual leave being paid to him.  His  four weeks annual leave entitles him to payment of the sum of $800. Previously that was taxable at the rate of 5 per cent and he would have paid $13 in tax on that sum. Now he will have to pay $267 in tax on that amount. That is a very dramatic change and one which will greatly disadvantage many workers who commonly leave their jobs and go to new jobs. I instance in particular workers in the building and construction industry. The reason given for the change is that the Government sees the current tax law as encouraging the non-taking of leave during a person's working life. Many workers do not take their leave when it falls due- there is certainly some truth in that- but if the Government is really concerned about the health of workers and wants to make sure that they take their leave when it is due so that they do not overwork themselves and so on, why does it not go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the other industrial tribunals and seek amendments to the awards to ensure that the workers take their leave within a certain time? Why mess around with the taxation system to try to induce people to do so? It is simply not going to get to the heart of the matter anyway. The Government is only taxing leave which is taken on the termination of employment. If one stays with the one employer all one's life and accumulates vast amounts of leave, there will not be any tax levied on that leave until one's retirement. What this tax does, of course, is tax heavily those who commonly swap from job to job. As I mentioned previously, this is particularly true in the building and construction industries. Building and construction workers often go into an unemployment situation, particularly in present circumstances and in going into an unemployment situation previously they had at least their pro rata leave entitlement to take with them. Now, of course, they will be taking with them leave that is payable at the same rate of tax as would be payable if they were at work. There have been a number of examples of that but I do not have the time to go into them. 
Another important point is the lack of superannuation for wage earners. This kind of approach has its major impact on blue collar workers. These are the people who have little superannuation provision. Mostly superannuation applies to people who are white collar workers. What workers of this kind take out when they leave their jobs and retire is their accumulated leave. This Government is now saying to them: 'Sorry, but that accumulated leave which you were going to take into your retirement and on which you previously paid little tax is now going to be really solidly taxed'. The tax rate will increase twenty-fold. That is what is being done. Therefore it is having a major effect on blue collar workers. 
I shall quickly mention some other matters. One is the abolition of home loan interest as a tax deduction. Absolutely no reason has been given for doing so. Its major impact is on low income earners. The tax deduction is phased out by the time an income reaches $14,000 a year, but it is not to be replaced by anything. The home savings grants are being postponed. They are getting harder to obtain. The effect on the home buyer, particularly a low income earner who wishes to buy a modest home- it would have to be modest if he is buying a house on an income of something like $120 a week- is substantial. Assuming that a low income earner were paying something like 13 per cent of his income on a home loan and that 90 per cent of that was for interest, he would be losing some $3 a week as a result of this tax measure. That is an important tax impost on a worker at that level of income and it makes it infinitely more difficult for workers at lower income levels to obtain a house. 
Similarly, the removal of the tax exemption from the Commonwealth post-graduate awards is something which this Government has rushed into without proper consideration. Such awards are currently at a subsistence level. They have fallen far behind the rate of inflation. If they had been adjusted for inflation since 1970 they would be more than $1,000 higher than they are at present. But this Government intends to tax them just the same. This means that a research worker with a post-graduate award will be paying something like $70 a year in tax which he would not have paid previously. Such people also will be adversely affected by the health insurance measures. Previously, they never paid the health insurance levy because they paid no tax but they had a 75 per cent cover under the health insurance scheme. Now they still will not be paying any levy but they will have a cover of only 40 per cent. So on that side of things they have been badly affected as well. 
If there is to be taxation of post-graduate grants- one could see some argument for it if the grants were large enough- the amount of the grant should be increased. There is no means test on these grants. Therefore if we are to tax these grants- I can see some argument for it- we should do so only if there is a substantial increase in the amount of the grant to make it a living wage. But we should not be taxing on a level of real grant which has fallen way behind the rate of inflation. 
The averaging of income for primary producers is one aspect of this Budget which we support. What is involved is simply the restriction of the amount of non-farm income which primary producers can include for averaging purposes. The Opposition supports the 'measures that are being taken in this regard. It clearly is cutting down on a form of tax avoidance by preventing Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers from utilising their farming activities to gain a substantial tax benefit in respect of their non-farm income. We support that measure. One could argue perhaps that the $5,000 level for non-farm income is a little too high, but in general we regard this as a worthwhile proposal. The Opposition strongly opposes the abolition of the rebate for a dependant residing overseas. The Government is proposing to say to migrants in this country that the tax concession which they received previously in respect of funds sent overseas to look after their dependants in their country of origin is now to be removed. This proposal will increase tax revenue by about $20m a year. It means that the migrants of this country will be paying to the Government in 1978-79 $20m which they did not have to pay in 1977-78. I understand that this has caused considerable concern in the migrant community in this country. 
Finally, may I quickly mention the proposal to extend the gift provisions of the tax law to the World Wildlife Fund of Australia. Why is this being done in respect of that particular charity? We have no strong objections to it but no reason has been given. This Government just governs as though it does not give a damn about the people of Australia, It does not say why it is doing things and in this respect it nominates one charity out of the blue. Is this because a particular person got to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or perhaps to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)?  We do not know. We have not been told. What is wrong with all the other worthwhile charities? Why is this particular one mentioned? 
These Bills demonstrate, as no other Bills have done, that this is a government lacking enormously in principle and it is a government which is basically dishonest and untrustworthy. They demonstrate the paucity of its economic policies and they demonstrate its utter lack of concern to bring about a more equitable society in this country. 
-by leave-With the gracious consent of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is the shadow Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, I would like to say a few words on this matter as the local member for the area in which the Wiltona Hostel is located. As the local member I strongly oppose the re-opening of Wiltona Hostel for migrant hostel purposes. The location of this hostel is totally unsuitable for such use, for environmental reasons, for safety reasons, for social reasons and, furthermore, it will undoubtedly place substantial additional strain on the local community facilities without any apparent additional assistance from the Commonwealth to offset it. The location of this hostel is almost impossible to describe to people who have not seen it. It is in the middle of a petrochemical complex. It is one kilometre from a major oil refinery and is right next door to a major tank farm in which vast quantities of crude oil are always stored. It is directly across the road from an LPG filling station. To the south of it there is a major fuel line. In other words, this migrant hostel was rebuilt in 1970 on modern lines in the middle of the most unsuitable area that one could possibly imagine. 
In addition to being in the middle of this petrochemical complex, it is two kilometres from the nearest residential area so it is totally isolated from the rest of the community. It is three kilometres to the nearest shop and four kilometres to the nearest shopping centre. The only transport is an extremely infrequent bus service so that people who are going to be put there will be totally isolated from the rest of the community and put in the most aesthetically unsuitable environment imaginable. Perhaps it could be said that people who are going to be using this hostel- principally Vietnamese refugees- would not be too fussy. I do not think that is the point. The point is that the people are being put in an area which, apart from being aesthetically ghastly, was described by one Melbourne reporter as 'almost a lunar landscape'. There is also a very important safety problem. This safety issue has been referred to in the Senate Committee's report. 
It is true admittedly that the Senate Committee decided it was worth taking a gamble on the safety issue on advice from the Commonwealth Fire Board. However, I think we must be aware of the fact there is a gamble involved and that the fire brigade authority which has responsibility for dealing with any fires in that area strongly recommended against the re-opening of Wiltona as a migrant hostel; that body is the Melbourne and Metropolitan Fire Brigades Board. I will quote a couple of sections from the Senate Committee's report on the opening of Wiltona. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Fire Brigades Board said in 1975 in advising the Commonwealth on its view with regard to the reopening of Wiltona: 
I am of the opinion that the hostel is too close to the tank farm, that there is always risk associated with such industrial premises and that the area is unsuitable for the hostel. 
Again in 1977 the Melbourne Metropolitan Fire Brigades Board representative stated: 
It is against all principles of good and safe practice to locate residential developments adjacent to industrial complexes, in particular, tank farms such as this. 
In evidence to the Committee the Melbourne Metropolitan Fire Brigades Board representative reiterated those opinions. The Committee's report states that the representative considered the hostel was unsafe for the following reasons:   . . the difficulties of combining the evacuation of residents with the entry of fire brigade vehicles; the problems of reporting a fire from the unmanned tank farm; and the absence of foam producing equipment at the tank site. 
Clearly there is a major concern by the body which would be responsible if fire broke out in that area about the location of something like 1,000 people in an area which is highly dangerous. The Commonwealth Fire Board said that the danger would be minimal provided that certain precautions were taken, and those precautions are set out on page 12 of the Senate Committee's report. They include an audible alarm system to be installed in the hostel interconnected with the refinery's watch room, procedures to be established for the evacuation of occupants, and an assurance to be obtained from Petroleum Refineries (Aust.) Pty Ltd that only crude oil will be held in or passed through the tanks closest to the hostel. Those conditions have been more or less met by what the Government has now announced. 
They have been completely met, I accept that. However, in my view they are inadequate to cope with the problem. A gamble is still being taken with the safety of the people who will be there. In regard to the evacuation procedures, I ask the House to consider this situation: Tn Wiltona in a few days' time there will be something like 1,000 people, principally Vietnamese refugees, most of whom will not be able to speak English. Evacuation procedures presumably will be advised to them through interpreters telling them what to do if a fire breaks out in the middle of the night. If a roaring fire broke out in a tank farm in the middle of a petrochemical complex one can imagine the panic and chaos that would occur and the impossibility, it seems to me, of expecting any orderly procedures to be abided by, particularly when people cannot give orders other than through interpreters. It is just not a situation which lends itself to orderly evacuation procedures. 
I think that we should be quite aware of what is being done. The Government is taking a gamble. It is saying that it is worth spending $600,000 to refurbish Wiltona, and that amount has already been spent, to bring it up to a standard that will enable it to be used as a hostel. It is saying that it is worth spending that money rather than building a hostel somewhere else, that it is worth taking that gamble. Let us be aware that that is what is being done. It is a gamble, and the Government is taking the gamble to save money. In my view, if the Government were at all concerned about the safety of the people, the appropriate procedure would have been to spend that money to build another hostel, which could be used for other purposes later, in an area which is environmentally better and which certainly would be much more suitable on safety grounds. It should also be remembered that Wiltona Hostel is adjacent to the Williamstown rifle range, which is a vast area of land only a few kilometres from the heart of the city that is being used for purposes that are totally unsuitable for such prime land. Constant representations about the need for the area to be turned over to the local community for very necessary use as parkland and open space, and perhaps for residential purposes, have not been acceded to so far by the Government. The Victorian Government has been looking at a plan to turn the rifle range into a coastal park, and for the Wiltona Hostel to be turned into the administrative headquarters for that coastal park. I have written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stating my concern about this issue and asking what is being done about the Victorian Government's proposals, but I have received no answer other than an acknowledgment two and a half months ago. 
One other factor that should be mentioned is that in an area where there are going to be an additional 960 to 1,000 migrants there will obviously be a lot more children and those children are going to have to go to local schools. To date, nothing has been done by this Government to inform the local authorities or local schools that any assistance will be forthcoming in the way of additional migrant teachers, additional classrooms or additional teaching aids. It is going to put enormous pressure on the surrounding schools, and there are relatively fewer of them in the vicinity of this hostel. Within a space of several kilometres there are probably three or four schools, which are going to be put under enormous pressure because of the additional students. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has not replied to the various representations made to him for additional forms of assistance to be made available to the schools to ensure that the students who are already there are not put under enormous pressure and that the migrant students receive something like a decent education. This whole episode epitomises the fact that when we get down to the kind of cost-cutting mean-minded approach that this Government has we start to take all sorts of gambles with people's lives. This episode is a prime example of the way in which that is being done. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. It concerns the recent announcement that the interest rate on loans from the new Primary Industry Bank of Australia will be payable at the bank overdraft rate of 10.5 per cent for amounts below $100,000 and 12.5 per cent for larger sums. In view of the Government's election promise that this bank would provide long term loans at concessional rates of interest, will the Treasurer explain why such a high rate of interest has been set when 37.5 per cent of the Bank's funds are to be supplied from income equalisation deposits at only 5 per cent interest? Even if the other 62.5 per cent of the Bank's funds to be borrowed from the public were subscribed at the semi-governmental authority rate of 9.25 per cent the average interest cost of the Bank's funds would be only about 7.6 per cent. Is this substantial difference between borrowing and lending rates accounted for by the imposition of charges by the trading banks for processing loans financed by the new Bank? If so, what are these charges; if not, who will receive the benefit of the abnormally large interest differential? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1978: 
What has been (a) the budget estimate and (b) the total actual unemployment benefit payments during each year from and including 1975-76. 
-The Opposition regards this statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  as a highly retrograde step. In our view, it represents a complete cave-in to pressure from powerful business interests which are implacably opposed to the Government's proposal, which was to tax foreign source income at Australian company tax rates. The Opposition supported that announcement when it was made by the Treasurer. We have since issued Press statements expressing some alarm at the apparent intention of the Government to water down or perhaps to abandon the proposal. Now, in fact, we find that that is what has happened. 
We oppose the backdown because there are various good reasons for doing what the Government proposed to do in the first place. Frankly,- 1 do not think the Government really has changed its mind about the desirability of doing what it originally proposed to do. If honourable members read the Treasurer's statement they will see that there is no convincing statement as to why the proposal should be abandoned. Rather, the real reason for the cave-in is the pressure that has been put on the Government from Australian business interests. We know that organisations like the Confederation of Australian Industry and the Australian International Business Association and many large companies have pressured the Government considerably in this regard. The major reason for doing what the Government proposed- it has now abandoned that proposal- was simply to close off a major tax avoidance loophole. 
It was a very important reason for doing it. It is mentioned in the Treasurer's statement as an important reason for doing it. 
I think it was a major reason for doing it. If the Treasurer wants to argue that it is not the major reason we are quite happy about that. We also think that there are other important reasons for doing it. 
-The Audit Amendment Bill now before the House is an important piece of legislation, although not exactly the high point of political contention. It provides for various significant amendments to the Audit 
Act and is similar in many respects to a Bill previously brought before this House in May 1976. But it, having been passed by this House, was allowed to lapse with the proroguing of Parliament in February 1977, by which time it had still not been passed by the Senate. However, a significant difference between that Bill and the one now before the House is that the new Bill contains provisions for the introduction of efficiency audits, which concept is supported by the Opposition. Indeed, the Opposition supports the Bill as a whole although we are concerned about some aspects of it to which I will make reference later. 
The provision for the establishment of efficiency audits represents a very significant alteration in one of the oldest Acts of this Parliament. It will significantly expand the role of the Auditor-General beyond his traditional role of financial auditing to that of assessing whether Government resources are being utilised economically and efficiently. In so doing, the Government is implementing a recommendation of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. It is pleasing to see that the Government is at last acting on at least one of that Royal Commission's numerous but largely ignored recommendations. However, the Royal Commission did not originate the idea. It was suggested to it by the Auditor-General who, in turn, was presumably aware that many other developed countries have such a provision in their governmental auditing procedures. It therefore represents a very significant expansion and updating of the Australian Government's auditing procedures and accordingly is worthy of some explanation to the Parliament and the public. 
Unfortunately and surprisingly the second reading speech of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said virtually nothing about it. The only other public comment from the Government came from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who, on 7 November 1977, in his then capacity as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, made a cryptic three-page statement on the subject when tabling the report of the working party of officials on efficiency audits, a report which had been completed seven months earlier in April 1977. Furthermore, in stating the Opposition's attitude to this Bill, it is appropriate I believe to provide some information on this important matter that the Government has not bothered to provide to the Parliament or the public. There are two basic arguments for efficiency audits, both of which are strongly supported by the Opposition. First, there is the obvious need to ensure that the Government's resources are in fact being utilised efficiently. This is not something that comes within the scope of the conventional financial audit which simply determines whether financial operations are conducted with propriety, whether financial reports are presented fairly and whether the body subjected to audit has complied with all the applicable laws and regulations. Thus, it is not concerned with efficiency of the body subject to audit. 
An efficiency audit remedies this deficiency by determining whether a department or statutory authority is utilising its resources in an efficient manner and seeks to reveal the causes of any inefficiencies or uneconomical practices. Such a practice is surely justified as a means of ensuring against waste of taxpayers' money by the bureaucracy. Those who provide the resources to government- that is, the taxpayers- clearly have the right to be assured that those resources are not being wasted by inefficiency. But without efficiency audits, no such assurances can be given. As the Royal Commission pointed out, the obligation on the Public Service Board under section 17 of the Public Service Act to maintain an oversight of the activities and business methods of the departments and to devise means of effecting economies and promoting efficiency is not a satisfactory guarantee of efficiency in the Service. 
The Royal Commission found that for some years the Board had not used its powers under section 1 7 to promote efficiency in the Public Service and although it had recently recommenced section 1 7 examinations, the Royal Commission found them to be very narrow in scope, being mainly exercises in assisting and improving management rather than in auditing or assessing performance. It found also that the results of these examinations are kept confidential to the departments concerned, thereby preventing outside assessment. Thus, the Public Service Act provided no guarantee to the public that government administration was proceeding efficiently. Efficiency audits, however, being concerned directly with efficiency in the use of resources would remedy this, especially as they would be reported to Parliament and so be public documents. 
The second reason for introducing efficiency audits has to do with ensuring the primacy of political responsibility for administrative efficiency by making departmental heads accountable to their Ministers, the Cabinet and the Parliament for the efficiency with which they maintain their departments. As the Royal Commission pointed out, without such efficiency audits Minister, Cabinet and Parliament have no systematic or effective way of assessing departmental performance. In that situation, it is farcical to believe that final responsibility for departmental performance is in the hands of those who are directly responsible to the people. The theory of the Westminster system is that the Minister is wholly responsible for all actions in his department. But how can this really be so when he has much more to do than keep a close watch on his department and when he has no real means of assessing or monitoring its performance? 
Even though some Ministers may become intimately aware of the operations of their departments, it is not feasible to conclude that they can keep a close watch on all its activities. As many Ministers clearly have a rather less than intimate knowledge of their departments, so much more valid does this point become. A process such as is provided for in this Bill will for the first time enable Ministers properly to assess the performance and efficiency of their departments and of the departmental heads who must in general take responsiblity for their departments' efficiency. Understandably perhaps, the report of the working party records expressions of concern by departmental heads who, despite section 25 (2) of the Public Service Act which holds them responsible for the general working of a department, believe that the actual degree of responsibility they bear is unclear because of the extent to which their managerial authority is subject to influence by co-ordinating authorities such as the Public Service Board, the Treasury and the Department of Finance. This seems to us to be a matter which should be cleared up by the Government. Even so, it is no argument, as the working party concluded, for not proceeding with efficiency audits. 
The important point is to locate, expose and eradicate inefficiency and poor performance. The extent to which departmental heads are responsible for that can be ascertained by further inquiry. If the policies and procedures of coordinating authorities are causing inefficiency, they too should be exposed and altered, and they will be by the efficiency audit process. Efficiency audits will also greatly enhance the ability of Parliament, as distinct from the Executive, to monitor the performance of departments. Parliament, as the representative of the people, should have the role of guardian of the administrative and executive efficiency of government. But as we are all aware, the power of Parliament has receded considerably over the years with that of the Executive being correspondingly enhanced. The ability of Parliament to consider reports of the Auditor-General relating to efficiency audits should be a substantial step towards redressing this imbalance. We are pleased that this Bill provides for such audits to be presented to Parliament. Presumably, either the Standing Committee on Expenditure or the Joint Committee of Public Accounts will then analyse these reports on behalf of Parliament and report if necessary to the Parliament as a whole. 
However, we have some concern about the provisions of the Bill in this respect. It seems that the Auditor-General is only empowered, rather than required, to report to the Parliament. Why is there not a general requirement to report subject to the ability of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to restrict reporting for security or other reasons as set out in the Bill? In this regard also we find it difficult to understand why there is provision for regulations to exclude from efficiency audits such bodies as the Defence Force, the Commonwealth Teaching Service, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Commonwealth Police Force and the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. Insofar as security or other reasons would make public reportage undesirable, the provisions for the Attorney-General to issue a certificate restricting reportage on certain bodies would seem to be sufficient protection. So, why make provision to exclude such significant bodies from efficiency audits altogether? Certainly no reason is given by the Minister in his second reading speech, and the working party of officials and the Royal Commission both recommended that such audits apply across the whole of the Commonwealth government administration, without any exceptions being mentioned. 
One other aspect of efficiency audits to which I wish to draw attention is the distinction between such audits and what may be termed program effectiveness reviews. Whereas the efficiency audit is concerned only with the efficient use of resources, the program effectiveness review goes a stage further by assessing whether the objectives of particular programs are being achieved. Such a review represents a third level of auditing of government administration that is already well established in such countries as the United States, the Federal Republic of Germany and Sweden. However, as none of these countries have a Westminster system of government, it is easier to provide for auditing of this kind there than it is in our system. This is because in the Westminster system the executive and legislative arms of the governmental system are not separate, as they are in the United States, for instance, and the Auditor-General in the Westminster system is therefore independent of the political debate on policy. If he were to get into the realm of program effectiveness reviews, he clearly would be brought into a more political role. In the United Slates, however, the Controller-General has no such constraints, as his job is to keep the Executive under surveillance on behalf of a quite separate Congress. Accordingly, not only Australia but also the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Canada, as other countries utilising the Westminster system, have not given their Auditors-General this third auditing role. However, that is not to say that such program effectiveness reviews should not be conducted. Clearly, it is very important to be sure that programs that are supposed to be achieving a certain result are in fact doing so. But our system provides for no constant checking to make sure that this is the case. 
The Royal Commission suggested that such reviews could be performed most appropriately by a unit within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, utilising information contained in the Auditor-General's efficiency audits. However, a far more satisfactory arrangement would seem to us to be for the Auditor-General, in conducting his efficiency audits, to monitor the extent to which departments themselves are evaluating the effectiveness of their programs, thus requiring the departments to undertake their own program effectiveness reviews. This is what happens in Canada, where a Westminster system also applies, and it would seem to us to be an extremely sensible move to introduce it hereindeed, it would provide a very sensible corollary to the introduction of efficiency reviews. Also on the matter, of benefits to be obtained from efficiency audits, we hope that the benefits claimed by the working party to be possible are in fact achieved. According to the working party, overseas experience indicates that cost-benefit ratios of the order of 1:4 to 1: 12 for this type of work can reasonably be expected. 
Certainly the costs do not look like being too high. According to the Public Service Board, the average efficiency audit will involve about four months of field work for four officers, and it is apparently the intention of the Auditor-General to phase in the concept by commencing with a few feasibility studies, some or all of which will proceed eventually to full efficiency audit. I understand that the feasibility studies have commenced already and that they are in the following areas: The student assistance program under the Department of Education; the property management area of the Department of Administrative Services; and the administration of Australia's foreign aid by the Department of Foreign Affairs. One could ask: Why choose these three? I would like to know in the course of this debate whether there is any particular reason for those three being adopted. I would have thought that recent revelations in the Press regarding the Department of Defence would have made it a prime area for commencement of such efficiency audits. Finally, in regard to efficiency audits, let me say that although I appreciate the need u&gt; phase in the concept, I hope that staff ceilings will not prove to be an impediment to their more rapid introduction. If the costbenefit ratio is anything like as favourable as the working party found, then it would be extraordinarily foolish to postpone such audits because of lack of staff. It would bc a classic case of being penny wise and pound foolish. 
One other matter that I would like to raise at this stage concerns the amendments to the surcharge power. The Bill seeks to repeal the existing surcharge provisions, which have been dormant for many years. They provide for the Auditor-General to recover from a government employee any loss or damage due to that employee's default, neglect, mistake, error or fraud. However, because of difficulties associated with establishing default or neglect and the fact that the Auditor-General had to be judge and prosecutor, which is unfair and inappropriate Ibr an auditor, and because the person accused had little opportunity to give evidence in his own defence, these provisions are now being repealed and a new procedure is being introduced. The new procedure provides for the departmental head to take action for recovery of losses or recompense for damage, and in this respect it is certainly an improvement. So, too, is the provision for appeal by an officer to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or to a court. 
However, we are concerned that, where an officer held cash by way of an advance or was in charge of stores or property and loss or damage occurred, the onus of proof that he or she was not at fault in that case is to be put on the officer. Such a procedure seems to be contrary to the general theme of our law, which is to put the burden of proof on the plaintiff or accuser. The officer would have to prove that he took reasonable steps to prevent the loss or damage as it has been spelt out in the Bill before the House, and this could be quite difficult. The officer may not know the name or whereabouts of some witness or all the facts relating to the matter. Furthermore, it seems to us that it could be quite possible for the departmental head to use those sections of the Bill which put the onus of proof on the employee as an alternative to proceeding under the gross negligence or misconduct provisions, in which case the onus of proof is on those laying the charge. Thus it could quite generally be the case that an officer being surcharged was faced with having to prove his innocence. In our view the Government would be well advised to reconsider the proposed section  70ae,  as it introduces an element of unfairness into what is in most respects a commendable piece of legislation. 
-The Opposition raises this matter for debate because it wishes to expose the economic invalidity and the political expediency of what has become the central tenet of this Government's economic policy; that is the need to slash the level of real wages. Soon after it was elected in December 1975, the Fraser Government discarded its unequivocal election promise to support wage indexation and since then has argued that real wages should be slashed and even that money wages should be frozen, that wage indexation should be totally abandoned and that we should revert to the system of annual national wage cases with no prima facie presumption that wages should then be increased in line with price movements or indeed with any other specific criteria. However, following repeated rejection of its hardline approach by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Government softened its approach in its submission last week in the current national wage case by calling for maximum wage restraint rather than flatly opposing any wage increase at all. Such a policy approach, however, still clearly involves a determination to bring about reduced real incomes and therefore reduced living standards for the great majority of wage and salary earners. The Conciliation and Arbitration .Commission awarded full wage indexation in only one out of the past nine cases. Indeed in the last case it awarded only 71 per cent indexation. This shows the extent to which the Government's approach has been forced upon the Commission. 
The February tax cuts may have alleviated this reduction in real wages somewhat but the income tax surcharge now applying will effectively wipe out all the benefits of the tax cuts for wage and salary earners who earn between $114 and $238 a week- that is the great majority of themand leave them even worse off than before. The Government's wage and tax policies therefore are intended to reduce the real living standard of wage and salary earners by transferring real income from them to those who reap the benefits of increased profits. Such a policy is defended by the Government as being necessary to reduce inflation and unemployment. In support of its case it has introduced the concept of the socalled real wage overhang; that is, the extent to which real wages have risen above the level of productivity. The Government claims that it is a basic precondition to the reduction of unemployment that this supposed overhang be eliminated. Until this happens, it argues, profits will be too low to attract sufficient investment to generate jobs and economic recovery. 
The first point to note regarding this policy is the conceptual stupidity of aiming to restore normal factor income shares during a severe recession. The Government argues that profits' share of total income is well below its long run average level, that correspondingly wages ' share is well above its long term average and that these income shares must be returned to normal levels if investment is to be sufficiently profitable to provide jobs and economic growth. However the reality is that wage's share has fallen quite considerably from its 1974 level and profits' share has shown some recovery. Chan 6 on page 20 of Statement No. 2 of the Budget Papers shows the extent of these movements, with wages' share falling from over 69 per cent of non-farm gross product at factor cost in 1974 to just over 64 per cent, which is still a little above its long term average share of just over 62 per cent. So wages' share has come down considerably but not enough for the Government which says it must get back to its long term level if economic recovery is to occur. 
But the Government takes no account of the fact that in a recession wages' share always rises and profits' share always declines as profit margins are squeezed by increased fixed cost per unit of output and the difficulty of raising prices in a slack market. This happens in every recession. Yet the Government insists that now, in the middle of a very severe recession, the normal non-recession shares of factor incomes must be restored. It is a crazy argument. If that were to happen, and ah economic recovery by some miracle followed, profits ' share would zoom to an all time high. Regard simply must be had to the degree of capacity under-utilisation. In this regard the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research says that for the current degree of capacity under-utilisation profits share is already back to normal. 
The argument used more recently to bolster the shares argument for reducing real wages has been the need to reduce the real wage overhang. The measurement of such an overhang depends on obtaining a suitable measure, for real wage costs and for productivity and comparing the two series over time. This raises many technical arguments about the appropriate statistical series to use for these measures and also about the starting point from which the comparison should be made. 
Without going too deeply into those technicalities, it must be said that the measure relied on by the Government in wage indexation cases to prove its contention as to the existence of a real wage overhang has varied over time but has generally been that which most emphasised the extent of the overhang. For instance, it has adopted a measure of wage costs which includes payroll tax and employers workers compensation insurance payments. On the other hand though, it takes no account of the various wage subsidy schemes currently in operation such as the Special Youth Employment Training Program, the National Employment and Training scheme and the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training which together subsidised wages by $ 1 00m in 1 977-78. 
In regard to productivity, the Government has refused to use the productivity measure recommended by a working party of officials on the measurement of productivity- which body was established in 1975 to advise the Government on the most appropriate productivity measure for wage determination purposes- and has instead adopted a form of measurement that produces a lower productivity increase. The latest figures utilised by the Government to support its real wage overhang argument were those submitted in the recent wage fixation principles case and reproduced in a special supplement to the September 1978 edition of the Treasury's monthly round-up of economic statistics. That material, as contained in table 2 of the supplement, shows a real wage overhang of 7 per cent for the year 1976-77 which is the latest available period for the measure used. 
It is tremendously important to note however that that figure for 1976-77 effectively tells us the position as the Treasury says it should be measured at the end of December 1976; that is, 22 months ago. Thus we have the absolutely remarkable proposition that because the Treasury's calculations show a real wage overhang of 7 per cent for a point in time almost two years ago, the Government says that wages must now, in November 1 978, be further substantially reduced in real terms so that the overhang of two years ago can be eliminated. How do we even know that the overhang of December 1976 still exists? Given the fact that average weekly earnings rose by 9.8 per cent in 1977-78 while prices rose by 9.5 per cent, it would appear that there was little if any rise in real labour costs in 1977- 78. So with further productivity growth during that year one would expect a considerable fall in any overhang in that year. It is therefore not surprising that estimates by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research indicate that over the last financial year the real wage overhang has been virtually eliminated. In its second quarterly edition of the  Australian Economic Review  for this year the Melbourne Institute went fully into this matter and included a chart which showed that the index of real labour costs was only fractionally above the index of trend growth in productivity in 1977-78 and was forecast to fall below it in 1 978- 79.I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table produced by the Institute which provides the statistical basis for chart C which appears on page 9 of the  Australian Economic Review  for the second quarter of 1 978. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811076_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table shows that the ratio of real labour costs for the productivity trend- that is, the real wage overhang- was, 106.0 or 6 per cent, in 1976-77. That was slightly less than the Government's figure for that year which was 107 or seven per cent. The table forecasts a fall to 101.8 in 1977-78 and to only 97.5 in 1978-79. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at page 10 of its  Australian Economic 

 Review for the second quarter of 1978 states: 
The evidence, of which a selection is provided above, leads us to the conclusion that, on the best measure available, real labour costs had returned to a roughly normal relationship with trend productivity by 1977-78, and on current policies are likely to be well below that normal relationship in 1978-79. 
Further on it stated:  we conclude that the view that unemployment in Australia can only be significantly reduced if real wages fall is mistaken, as are policies based on this view. 
Similar conclusions have also been reached by the Flinders University National Institute of Labour Studies, which body produces a quarterly publication entitled the 'Australian Bulletin of Labour'. The Institute in its June 1978 edition of the Bulletin, considered the real wage overhang argument and, having conducted its analysis of the evidence, it also concluded that the real wage overhang does not now exist. Page 2 of the Australian Bulletin of Labour' states: 
Stripped of its statistical raiment, 'real wage overhang analysis' is seen to be naive classical partial equilibrium theory, and its policy prescriptions the same pre-Keynesian orthodoxy that gave the world the Great Depression and the Hungry Thirties. The 'real wage overhang' is a symptom of the depth of the current recession, not its cause. Our current economic malaise must be treated, not by economic 'blood letting', but by strengthening the patient through selective fiscal stimulus. 
Thus an analysis of the evidence concerning the extent of any real wage overhang leads overwhelmingly to the conclusion that it simply does not exist. But even if it is contended, despite the convincing evidence to the contrary, that a real wage overhang does exist, there are still very good reasons to be highly sceptical of the Government's claims that such an overhang is responsible for the growth of unemployment. Neither the Government nor anyone else has produced any firm evidence of such a causal relationship. On the other hand there is ample evidence available to show that assertions of such a simple relationship are simplistic nonsense. One such piece of evidence is the fact that despite a far greater percentage increase in female wages than in male wages over recent years due to the phasing in of equal pay, female employment has fared much better than male employment. Over the five-year period June 1 973 to June 1978 male award rates rose by 108 per cent but female award rates increased by 143 per cent. But in regard to employment, the total number of hours worked per week by all males in civilian employment- that is, the numbers engaged in full or part-time work multiplied by the number of hours worked- actually declined by 2.6 per cent over that period whilst the total number of hours worked by females increased by 8 per cent despite their far greater increase in pay. Any real wage overhang was clearly far greater for women than for men but their employment performance has been markedly better than for men. Such evidence must surely throw great doubt on the alleged real wage overhang and unemployment relationship. 
Perhaps even more convincing as a reason to doubt the alleged real wage overhangunemployment relationship is the fact that at an international level there is no discernible relationship whatsoever between the extent of real wage overhang and the increase in unemployment. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing real wage imbalance and unemployment in nine industrialised countries in the period 1972 to 1976. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811076_31_1.jpg"></graphic>

Data Source: OECD  Economic Surveys, Australia  April 1978 p. 18 Table 4. 
US Department of Labour. 
Bureau of Labour Statistics. 

 Monthly Labour Review April 1977 p. 15. Table 2. 
Document Source: National Wage Case, March Quarter 1978 Exhibit J18. 
-I thank the House. The table shows that no discernible relationship exists between real wage overhang and unemployment at all. Canada had a similar real wage overhang to Australia for the period covered but its unemployment increased by 141/2 per cent compared with 100 per cent for Australia. Germany had the lowest real wage overhang but the highest percentage rise in unemployment. Sweden had the highest real wage overhang but its level of unemployment actually fell by 36 per cent. Thus the evidence is not only that the dreaded real wage overhang does not even exist but that even if it did it is far too simplistic to simply attribute all our economic woes to that fact. 
Finally I make two points of clarification on the Opposition's attitude to wages. Firstly, we are not saying that wage increases are irrelevant to our economic circumstances. Clearly, substantial increases in money wages have implications for inflation and the competitive position of Australian industry. However we strongly assert that real wage reductions in current circumstances are inequitable, unnecessary and quite likely counter-productive as an economic purgative. Maintenance of real wages whilst reducing rates of increase in money wage would be quite possible with reductions in indirect taxes and government charges. Secondly, we are concerned that the Government's inequitable wages policy is undermining the system of orderly wage fixation in this country by destroying the confidence of the trade unions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the wage indexation system. So long as union bargaining power is inhibited by high unemployment that may not be a problem for the Government, but if the economy should eventually move into a substantial recovery phase, union frustration and resentment at the depression of real wages and complete lack of confidence in the wage indexation system may well boil over into another wage explosion. 
Potentially, therefore, the Government's wages policy could be enormously damaging to our economic future. Indeed, it raises the strong possibility that, without a drastic change of wages policy in the near future, this Government may never be able to allow anything like a full economic recovery to occur, even if it knew how to achieve it, for fear of generating an inflationary wages explosion. A return to full employment with low rates of inflation must, in our view, involve the adoption of an equitable wages policy, supported by the trade union movement. A continuance of the present wages policy of this Government will ensure that it is never able to achieve that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Treasurer seen reports that the borrowing program of semi-government authorities, as approved by the Loan Council in June, is likely to fall short by several hundred million dollars? ls the difficulty that the States have experienced in raising these funds substantially attributable to reduced interest rates and to the reduction made three months ago in the minimum ratio of savings banks holdings of government and semi-government securities to deposits from 45 per cent to 40 per cent? Will the recent further reduction in interest rates for semigovernment authorities exacerbate the difficulty of fulfilling the semi-government authorities borrowing program? Was the Commonwealth's unexpected generosity in approving all of the States' requests to seek overseas finance for infrastructure projects explained by the shortfall of the domestic borrowing program? 
-The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill before the House is a very important piece of legislation although given the dry, terse bureaucratic prose with which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  introduced it, one could be forgiven for thinking that it is very mundane, run-of-the-mill legislation. In fact, it has enormous implications for the state of the economy, unemployment and activity in the States. These things need to be brought out more fully than they have been by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  In our view, the Bill is a revelation. It reveals the fraudulent nature of the so-called new federalism, the misconceptions or deceptions involved in the Government's economic strategy, the Government's remarkable unconcern at the appalling plight of the building and construction industry, the doctrinaire approach that marks the Government's continued assault on the public sector and the way in which the Government's policy is exacerbating the already horrendous problem of unemployment. 
What the Bill does specifically is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in this financial year in the sum of $477,933,000. Those grants are general purpose capital grants. In other words, they are paid to the States for capital purposes to use as they think fit on capital works projects. They are distinct from specific purpose capital grants which are, of course, tied to a particular form of capital works activity. The Bill also has another machinery aspect. It authorises the payment of general purpose capital grants to the States in the first six months of the next financial year equal to half of this year's amount. That is necessary simply to provide for such payments before next year's legislation is passed. 
In looking at the importance and the value of this Bill one must firstly make the point that it is anything but generous. The grant is almost exactly the same as for the previous year despite the fact that there has been an increase in prices in that period. In 1977-78 capital grants to the States were $477,930,000. This financial year the figure is $477,936,000-a whole $6,000 more. 
Last financial year there was an underpayment of $3,000 to Western Australia which is being made up this year and the extra $6,000 includes that amount. Effectively, the grant is exactly the same as was paid last year despite the fact that the Budget estimate of inflation for 1978-79 is 6 per cent to 7 per cent. The Government deliberately decided to reduce the real value of capital grants to the States by about 6 per cent or 7 per cent this financial year. That is something which the honourable member for Petrie did not quite get around to mentioning. That is a very important reduction. It means that if the Government was going to maintain the real value of the general purpose capital grants to the States it would have had to provide another $28. 7m, if one takes a 6 per cent rate of inflation. If it was higher, the Government would have had to provide an even higher amount. 
It is serious enough that the general purpose capital grants have been reduced in real terms to this amount, but it goes beyond that. These capital grants form only part of the total Budget allocations to the States for general capital purposes. The rest comes from Loan Council borrowings. But they have not been increased either. In 1977- 78 general purpose capital funds for the States from Loan Council borrowings were $955,867,000. This year they are exactly the same sum, not a brass cent more. The total general purpose capital funds for the States in the two years are: 1977-78, $1,433,897,000; and this year, $1,433,903,000. That is $6,000 more, and I have explained where that comes from. These are very large sums of money, enormous amounts of money, and therefore their importance in the economy is substantial. If they are reduced in real terms that has various important implications for the state of the economy and for the level of activity in the economy, particularly in the building and construction industry. 
It is important to realise that just to keep up with inflation that grant would have had to be $86m higher. This gives us some idea of the measure of the cutback that has been involved in keeping the money amounts at the same level as for the previous year. This does not tell the whole story, because we have to see these real reductions in the context of total capital payments to the States. Capital payments to the States are, as I mentioned previously, not only in this general purpose form but also in the specific purpose form- the so-called section 96 grants. These grants have been cut back even more severely than the general purpose capital grants. In 1978- 79 specific purpose capital payments to the States have been reduced in money terms by $129,439,000 or 8.2 per cent. I emphasise that that is in money terms, without taking any account of inflation. If these payments were to be maintained in real terms, assuming a 6 per cent inflation rate, they would have needed to increase by $94.5m; but instead they have been reduced by $ 129m. So, clearly, in respect of these specific purpose capital payments there has been a very substantial reduction in real terms. 
I might note here that this is not something unusual for this Government. Every year since 1975-76 specific purpose capital payments have been reduced in money terms. In 1978-79 they are 21.3 per cent below the 1975-76 level in money terms. If one then adds on inflation, clearly there has been a massive real cut in the level of specific purpose payments to the States for capital works as well as the cutback we are now experiencing in general purpose capital grants. 
The honourable member would not know the first thing about it. Altogether, general purpose and specific purpose capital payments to the States in this financial year have been reduced in money terms by 4.3 per cent and in real terms by 10 per cent or 10 per cent plus, assuming a 6 per cent rate of inflation. Perhaps the reduction is over 1 1 per cent if the inflation rate is 7 per cent. Indeed, an extra $309m would have been needed to retain the same level of total capital payments to the States in this financial year. The fact that that money is not there, that in this financial year there has been this $309m reduction in the real level of payments to the States for capital works, has enormous implications for the operations of the States, for the building and construction industry, for the economy generally and for the level of unemployment. 
This, of course, is not something which only we in the Opposition have recognised. The States are very much aware of what has been going on and have been horrified by what this Government has been doing. This has been the reaction regardless of party. The States unanimously condemned these allocations to the States when they were revealed by the Federal Government at the Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting on 22 June this year. I note in passing that the Treasurer said in the second reading speech that there was an agreed program for the States capital works and other payments at the Premiers Conference and Loan Council. That is an extraordinary use of language. The States were given a take-it-or-leave-it proposition. It is hardly the correct use of language to say that there was agreement. They had no alternative but to take it. 
If the honourable member will listen I will show him how unhappy they are about it. I have quite a bit to say about that. At the time this greatly reduced allocation for capital works and other payments to the States was revealed, the States had the kind of reaction I will outline.  Mr Wran  said: 
I cannot see for the life of me how this program is destined to allow the economy to recover, to put investors' money back into the country and put people back into the work force. 

 Mr Hamer described the reduction as extremely severe and worse than any of the States had expected. He estimated that the Commonwealth's offer would cost Victoria about $100m.  Mr Dunstan  described the Commonwealth's offer as the craziest thing ever to come out of Canberra during his term as Premier. He said: 
It means a loss of some $32m this year from our projected worst estimates of what the Commonwealth could produce. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen said that the proposals would aggravate unemployment and give a very heavy blow to industry generally. 'It's unbelievable', he said.  Sir Charles  Court said that the Commonwealth's proposed payments were the worst ever put before the Premiers. 
-On 22 June, after the Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting when these allocations were announced to the States. 
I will mention last Monday later.  Sir Charles  Court, a Liberal State Premier, said: 
It's a negative growth factor as far as loan works are concerned. This is a prescription for a recession and if you prescribe for a recession you will get it. This is a time when you want a bit of confidence in the community. 

 Mr Batt from Tasmania said that he was stunned by the harshness of the Commonwealth stand and on loan funds it would mean that the State would have up to $20m less this year for its important capital works. Even discounting for the normal statements made by the Premiers each year when bargaining for higher grants, this unanimous chorus of opposition and concern about the effects on the level of economic activity and employment must be taken seriously. 
The honourable member was not even here for the first ten minutes of my speech on this Bill. I explained exactly what it is about, in substantial detail. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member for Lilley will have the opportunity to speak very soon. 
-The States did not confine their objections to what was done to their immediate reaction. When they came to deliver their Budget Speeches later on, they also expressed their great concern about what had been done. I do not intend to go through every State Treasurer's speech, but I will mention a couple.  Mr Knox,  the Treasurer in the Queensland Government, was the most passionately critical of all. I mention for the benefit of those who are not aware of it that he is a member of the Liberal Party. He said: 
What is of very deep concern to us is the persistent insistence on the part of the Commonwealth that it also needs to strangle capital works, slash State loan borrowing programs and wipe out capital grants for other State works. An expanded capital works program can bring the economy to life again more quickly without any harmful effect on inflation. 
This is not just old-fashioned economics, it is good common sense. Every dollar spent on capital works generates a further $2 or $3 worth of expenditure in the flow-on and multiplier effects further down the line in supporting an associated industry. The Commonwealth either cannot see the point or will not accept it. 
That was  Mr Knox  speaking in his Budget Speech in very trenchant criticism of what had been done.  Mr Dunstan,  in his Budget Speech, said: 
In other words, the Government's capital works program for 1978-79 has been reduced effectively by $1 lm below the inadequate 1977-78 level, which had itself been cut in real terms over the previous two-year period. It is South Australia's private sector construction firms who will suffer the most from this savage reduction. 
There we have statements by certain Premiers and the Treasurer of Queensland both immediately after the Loan Council meeting and in their Budget Speeches. Clearly, they were trenchantly critical of what had been done. It is clear that there is a bipartisan approach to this issue. The States all agree that the Fraser Government's slashing of funds to the States for capital works is deplorable, recessionary and, importantly, damaging to the private sector. As  Mr Dunstan  said in his Budget speech and as honourable members on the other side of the House should realise, it is very damaging to the private sector, particularly the building and construction industry. 
Let me consider the context in which this policy was introduced and is being pursued. The rationalisation for this policy to cut back allocations to the States, for capital works, which was given in the speech by the Treasurer at the Premiers Conference, was that the Government's policy was working, that recovery was well under way, that the Government's past policies had succeeded and that what was needed was a continuance of those policies. So he argued that in that context further cutbacks in government expenditure were appropriate. In making that statement he made many statements which, in our view, were misstatements of the reality. As we know the reality is that the economy was not recovering and that in fact it was going deeper and deeper into recession. Let me turn to some of the statements that were made by the Treasurer at the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council meeting in June, those statements were wrong, but upon them he based a program of substantial cutbacks in capital works grants to the States. Firstly, he said: 
Growth of demand and activity has been much as expected at this time last year. Growth in gross non-farm product for 1977-78 seems likely to exceed the 2 per cent projected at Budget time last year. 
The facts are that demand and activity were running well below the level expected by the Government in mid- 1977 when it drew up the 1977-78 Budget. The growth in real gross nonfarm product in 1977-78 compared with that for 1976-77 was only 1.8 per cent, compared with the 2 per cent estimated in the Budget. More importantly, the growth in real gross non-farm product from June 1977 to June 1978 was only 2.2 per cent, compared with the 4 per cent estimated in the Budget. 
In other words throughout 1977-78 the real growth in the economy was only just over half the growth for which the Government had budgeted. Yet the Treasurer said: 'Growth of demand and activity has been much as expected this time last year'. That was absolute nonsense and was totally exposed by the later production of the national accounts. They were not available when he made that statement, but certainly he must have had a pretty good idea of what was happening. The Treasurer was really stretching things to claim that growth in demand and activity was much as had been expected. Another statement he made was: 
With consumer confidence recovering the personal saving ratio continued to decline and private consumption in real terms has been increasing moderately. 
The fact is that, on the basis of the only available survey, consumer confidence has been declining since January. I shall quote a couple of paragraphs from a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 2 October concerning the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research survey on consumer confidence. It states: 
Consumer confidence, which has been on a downturn since January, suffered a further sharp drop in August, according to the latest survey by the University of Melbourne 's Institute of Applied Economic Research. 
The August drop was the sharpest ever recorded since the institute first began its surveys in early 1 973. 
The institute's index of consumer sentiment dropped a substantial 12.2 points between the July and August surveys to its present level of 9 1 .2. 
This is the second lowest reading recorded by the institute . - . 
From that we see that consumer confidence, which according to the Treasurer was going well and therefore we could afford to cut back on capital works, in reality according to the only available survey has been declining throughout this calendar year and now has reached the worst level for some years. In respect of the personal saving ratio which the Treasurer said was declining, the fact is that that ratio went up according to the figures contained in the Budget Papers. In Statement 2 of Budget Paper No. 1, at page 10, we find a table relating to the personal savings ratio, which shows that that ratio increased from 14.6 in the first half of 1977-78 to 15.2 in the second half of 1977-78. Yet we hear the Treasurer talking about a decline in the personal saving ratio. A third statement he made was: 
There is no doubt that this marked slow-down in inflation has given a tremendous fillip to the process of restoring confidence, both of consumers and business decision-makers. 
As I have pointed out, the fact is that consumer confidence has been declining throughout this year. The latest survey shows that there is not much business confidence around. I refer to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 26 October, which is headed: 'Business survey shows poor 78-79 expectations'. I shall quote a couple of paragraphs from that. It states: 
Only a third of businesses expect their production activity to pick up in the 1978-1979 financial year, according to the latest business survey by the Australian Chamber of Commerce and the National Bank. 
The survey also found that there was a slowdown in trading activities in the September quarter. 
According to the survey, released yesterday, half the companies expected their level of activity to remain the same this financial year and one-fifth believed it would contract. 
Lack of demand was the main reason given for the poor expectation. 
That seems to conflict totally with what the Treasurer was saying at the Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting in June this year about the great growth in business confidence. Clearly, there is little confidence among business decision-makers. The main reason for this, as the survey showed, is lack of demand and not the cost of labour, which the Government claims to be the overwhelming reason for our economic malaise. These examples show how misleading and false were the Treasurer's analyses of the state of the economy when he sought to convince the Premiers that substantial cuts in their allocations for capital works were desirable and appropriate. Clearly the economy was then and still is in far worse shape than he maintained was the case and the Government's policy of severely reducing the allocations to the States for capital works has markedly exacerbated the situation because in this important section of total demand there is not just no growth, but an actual decline. 
I mentioned the need to stimulate the building and construction industry. As I mentioned previously, this industry is virtually on its knees at present. It has reached a stage where it is at a 15-year low in regard to employment. Surely the Treasurer and the rest of the Government must know that this industry is one of the most depressed industries in the country. At present the level of unemployment in the industry is 8.1 per cent, the highest for any industry. The Government must know that most government spending on building and construction is directed towards private sector contractors. So even with the constraints imposed by this Government's doctrinaire ideology of reducing the size of the public sector, cutting capital grants makes no sense at all. 
The State Premiers told the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer that cutting payments for capital works would damage infrastructure programs, reduce housing construction and increase the level of unemployment in the construction industry. Industry councils have been pleading for more stimulus. Over the past 2V4 years we on this side of the House have argued that the very least the Government should be doing is to give some stimulus to the building and construction industry. It is important to realise in this respect that this industry has the highest multiplier effect of all other areas of economic activity. If we stimulate building and construction, with a given allocation of funds, we do more to stimulate the economy as a whole than we could do by allocating funds is any other way, by other forms of expenditure or by tax cuts. It is tremendously important that we realise this fact. Therefore, it we cut back on the allocations to the States the reverse occurs. If we cut back on allocations to the building and construction industry that big multiplier effect works in reverse. So we get the most depressive effect of all expenditure cuts if we apply them in the capital works area. 
This affects not only the building and construction industry. We are talking about flow-ons into all the other areas of activity. Obviously they include the building and supplies industry with materials such as steel, bricks, glass, office and household furniture, cement and so on. It has tremendous ramifications across the whole economy with very little leakage to imports. So, as I mentioned, stimulation of the building and construction industry has the highest multiplier effect of all. If we cut back real expenditure we generate a substantial recessionary factor in the economy. 
I now consider the implications of this Bill for the new federalism. The Bill exposes the falsity of the Government's argument that the States have done well out of Fraser federalism. Continual Government claims that federalism has been good for the States are just not true. The Prime Minister said in Question Time on 13 September that the Commonwealth's generosity of the last two or three years has been very real indeed. Also in Question Time that day the Treasurer said: 
. there had been very significant real increases in financial support made available to the States. 
Neither of those statements is true. As we have seen, real capital allocations have been markedly reduced. Furthermore, total payments to the States have been reduced considerably in real terms. That is not just general purpose and specific purpose capital payments but both capital and recurrent payments. In other words, total payments to the States have been reduced in real terms. In this financial year they increased by 5.2 per cent in money terms which is below the projected rate of inflation, so the total allocation of funds to the States is reduced in real terms. It is not just in this financial year that this has happened. The situation was much the same in the previous two years. Indeed, since 1975-76 the States have had their total payments from the Federal Government constantly slashed in real terms. If they had had their total payments maintained at the 1975-76 level in real terms, they would have needed another $ 1000m more than they have received. The actual figure would be $ 1059m more. That is a measure of how much the States' real funds have been reduced by this Government from their level in 1975-76 when the Labor Government determined what the allocations to the States would be. This shows the absurdity of the claims by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer about generosity to the States and that there have been significant real increases in financial support. It is just not true that this has been the case. Statements by the Prime Minister, Ministers and backbenchers that there have been real increases simply do not accord with the facts. They are totally untrue. 
I turn now to a consideration of Monday's Loan Council meeting. The fact is that the borrowing program announced following that meeting does not compensate for the defects that I have outlined. Even if all the approved borrowings were made, capital funds available to the States and the State semi-governmental authorities through borrowings and grants from the Commonwealth would rise by only $158m this year, or 3 per cent. In practice, because the study and planning of some of the projects are at such an early stage and with delays in planning and decision-making always being so much longer than expected, actual borrowings are likely to be considerably lower than the level approved. The impact on the economy this financial year is, unfortunately, likely to be even smaller. A third of the financial year is over and even in respect of those projects for which planning is well advanced, there must be many months between approval of borrowing and the beginning of construction, for the process of borrowing, calling and devaluation tenders and the starting of construction is all very time consuming. So the effect on the total level of construction activity and employment this financial year will be slight indeed. 
However, despite some concern at the apparent inadequacy or complete lack of feasibility studies for some of these projects we welcome the borrowing program announced on Monday. It is a small step in the direction that the Labor Party has been suggesting for over two years. It restores a part of the resources withheld from the States by this oppressive Government. The surprising aspect is that this borrowing approval is in such contrast to the rest of the Government's policy. Perhaps that is because of the reported difficulties being experienced in fulfilling the semi-government borrowing programs amounting to $1.75 billion which were approved at the Loan Council meeting. Although some 70 per cent of the programs have been fulfilled at present, it appears that it will be extremely difficult to fulfil the rest of the programs and this may well account for the fact that the Government was rather more generous than was expected in allowing all the proposals put up by the States to be funded overseas. 
There was a cynical aspect to Monday's Loan Council meeting. All the approved borrowing is outside the Budget and so makes no impact on the deficit. Having misled the Australian people by claiming that the size of the deficit is the principal cause of the rate of inflation, the Prime Minister now has to find ways of increasing public spending without increasing Budget outlays. The irony of this is that the approved borrowings will add to the money supply in just the same way as an increase in the deficit. 
Finally, by way of amendment to the second reading of the Bill, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Bill- 
takes no account of the Government's responsibility to allocate resources efficiently and equitably, 
will further retard provision of infrastructure essential to the effective functioning of the economy, 
3 ) will further depress the already severely depressed building and construction industry and 
will further increase unemployment'. 
-As from 1 November the taxpayers of this country were faced with an income tax surcharge which has substantially increased the tax burden, particularly on low and middle income earners. The full impact of this income tax surcharge is being felt  across the nation this week. Depleted pay packets tell the story of how much reliance can be placed on this Government's election promises. Substantial tax rises from 1 November compare with the election promise of tax cuts. I remind the House that that election promise was one of which great political capital was made by the* Government at the time of the last election. Politically, of course, this income tax surcharge is embarrassing for the Government. It has attempted to conceal the full impact of the surcharge by various means, such as by expressing the tax surcharge in a way which understates its real impact, by not mentioning the favoured treatment given to high income earners and by alleging that taxes on low and middle incomes would be higher if the tax scales introduced in the 1 975 Labor Budget still applied. 
Let me Consider, momentarily, the breach of the election promise. Nothing the Government can say can alter the fact that the income tax surcharge is a repudiation of a fundamental election promise that the Fraser Government would cut income taxes for all. Certainly income tax cuts were introduced last February but they have lasted less than nine -months. For many taxpayers they have disappeared entirely. The evidence of that repudiation, as I have mentioned, is in millions of pay packets this week. Payasyouearn taxpayers will be able to measure directly the extent of this Government's breach of its election promise to them by examining their pay packets this week and noting the additional amount of tax which has been taken out. Many will find that they have totally lost all the benefit of their tax reduction. In fact, 55 per cent of taxpayers, those who earn between $ 1 14 and $238 a week will lose more in dollars and cents from the tax surcharge than they gained from the February tax cuts. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables relating to the tax savings and tax cuts. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811091_30_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="112131197811091_31_2.jpg"></graphic>

These tables demonstrate firstly the inequity of the savings of the tax cuts of 1 February. The first table deals with taxpayers without dependants. It shows that a taxpayer on $114 a week gained $1.01 from the tax cut. A person earning $160 a week gained $1.87. The tax saving for someone earning $200 a week was $3.07. For a person earning $350 a week the tax saving was $12.54. For a person earning $450 it was $20.39. For a person earning $1,500 a week it was $86.82 and for a person earning $2,000 a week the tax saving per week was $111.82. Those were the tax savings introduced last February. Clearly they were biased very heavily towards high income earners. 
If we look at the extent of the tax increase which applies from 1 November on a weekly basis we find that a person earning $1 14 a week has a tax increase of $1.02. At $160 a week the tax increase is $2.19. At $238 a week it is $4.20. When the salary goes up to $2,000 a week the tax increase is $49.50, which is much less than the amount that a person on that income saved from the 1 February tax cuts. 
When we look at the difference between the two tax changes we find that a person earning between $ 1 14 and $238 a week is worse off. For instance, a person earning $120 a week is 45c a week worse off. A person earning $160 a week is 32c a week worse off. A person earning above $238 a week has net savings which amount to $62.32 a week if he earns $2,000 a week. Such a person will still have much of his 1 February tax cuts left. So clearly people earning above $238 a week are in a far better position as a result of these two measures than is the vast majority of taxpayers. The measures are biased very heavily indeed in favour of the high income earners. Looking at the effect of the tax increase applied from 1 November we find that for most taxpayers the increase is 8 per cent, but it tails off to 4.75 per cent at the very highest income levels. 
If one looks at the situation of a taxpayer with a dependent spouse one finds that in money terms the tax savings are the same as that for a taxpayer without dependants. The tax increases imposed by way of the surcharge, in money terms are the same but are much higher in percentage terms. For a taxpayer with a dependent spouse who earns $ 1 1 4 a week the percentage increase in his tax as a result of the 1 November measure is 98 per cent. That increase tails off to 4.8 per cent for a taxpayer who earns $2,000 a week and who has a dependent spouse. So there is a higher percentage impact on low income earners with a dependent spouse. Therefore, one can see that the whole exercise has been extremely inequitable. As many as 55 per cent of taxpayers on lower and middle incomes- that is, incomes of between $1 14 and $238 a week- lose more by way of the surcharge than they gained by way of the February tax cuts. Higher income earners have retained much of the benefit of the very generous tax cuts. 
The Government has attempted to misrepresent the situation and to disguise the full impact of what it has been doing. As I mentioned, it has done this in various ways. One way has been by falsely representing the tax surcharge as being 1 .5 per cent. This has been claimed time and time again and also by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his Budget Speech. At page 19 of his Budget Speech he stated:   the Government has decided that as a temporary measure for 1978-79 only, (he standard rate of personal income tax will be increased by 1  Vi  per cent . . . 
In our view this is a considerable misstatement of the real impact of the tax surcharge. It has been repeated not only in the Budget Speech and the Budget Papers but also in statements made by other government spokesmen. The reality is that, taken over the whole year, the surcharge represents an increase in each tax rate of 1.5c in the dollar, which is different from 1.5 per cent. Thus, on the standard rate of tax of 32c in the dollar, which is payable on an annual income of up to $16,000, the increase of 1.5c in the dollar constitutes another 4.7 per cent tax on top of the 32c in the dollar. 
As the tax rise for the whole year is being collected in the period after 1 November- that is, it is not being collected in the whole year but only in the period after 1 November- the tax tables now show the standard rate of tax rising to 34.57 lc in the dollar, which is a rise of 8 per cent, 8.03 per cent to be exact, over the 32c in the dollar. That is the extent of the tax increase for most people and not an increase of 1.5 per cent, as the Treasurer and other government spokesmen have claimed. Thus, the real impact of the surcharge is much greater than the Government would have people believe when it talks about a 1.5 per cent surcharge. As I mentioned, for those taxpayers who have dependants and who are on low incomes, the percentage increase in tax is much higher than it is for those on high incomes. As I mentioned, the increase in tax for those people on very low incomes of $ 1 14 a week is 98 per cent, which is a far cry from the 1 .5 per cent mentioned in the Budget Speech. 
Another form of misrepresentation of what has been done came in the recent broadcast by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to his electorate and in a subsequent Press statement by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  when he was acting as the Treasurer last week. They both claimed that, despite the imposition of the surcharge, taxpayers would still be paying less than they would have been paying if the tax scales introduced in the 1975-76 Budget still applied. Both claims are absolutely absurd. In the Prime Minister's broadcast to his electorate on 29 October 1978 he said: 
Let 's look at a taxpayer with a spouse and dependent child on average weekly earnings of $220.38. Under Labor's 1975 Budget tax scales, in January next year, that taxpayer would be paying tax of $49.85 per week. Under this Government, he will be paying only $40.85 a week- and this includes the 1.5 per cent temporary tax surcharge. Accordingly, despite the surcharge, the taxpayer on average weekly earnings is $9 a week better off because of this Government's tax reforms. This figure takes no account of the family allowance scheme which provides mothers with significantly higher benefits than the old child endowment. 
The Prime Minister arrived at that figure of a supposed $9 a week benefit by assuming that the Hayden tax scales would not have been adjusted at all for inflation. He assumed that the 1975 tax scales would remain exactly the same without being adjusted at all for inflation. That is the only way in which he could claim that kind of result. In fact, it is the policy of the Australian Labor Party to adjust the tax scales and rebates to make allowance for increases in prices. At page 14 of the  Australian Labor Party Platform Constitution and Rules  as approved by the 32nd National Conference in Perth in 1977, under the heading 'Taxation ' the following is stated:  adjust the personal income tax schedule and tax rebates for changes in the Consumer Price Index; 
There we have an explicit statement that it is Labor's policy to adjust the tax scales to allow for movements in prices. Therefore, the whole exercise indulged in by the Prime Minister is extraordinarily misleading, unfair and perhaps not to be unexpected as it comes from him. The Prime Minister's calculations are based on a totally false assumption that under a Labor government the 1975 tax scales would not have been adjusted at all for inflation. In fact, the Fraser Government has not provided full tax indexation. In the past three years during which tax indexation supposedly has been operating, we have had less than 100 per cent indexation. It was 93 per cent in 1976-77, 80 per cent in 1977-78 and 35 per cent in the current financial year. So it has been well below full indexation. 
If Labor's 1975 tax scales had been indexed only to the same degree as they have been indexed by this Government, a taxpayer on average weekly earnings with a dependent spouse and child- the same example as was taken by the Prime Minister- would have been much better off than he will be under this Government. Under a Labor government, instead of that taxpayer paying $49.85 a week in tax, as the Prime Minister claimed would be the case under the 1975 tax scales, such a taxpayer would pay only $34.08 a week instead of the $40.85 a week that the Prime Minister said such a taxpayer would pay under his Government this financial year, after 1 January 1979. Thus, by ignoring ALP policy and by assuming that the 1 975 tax scales would not be adjusted at all for inflation, the Prime Minister has completely misrepresented the real situation. The reality is that taxpayers in the lower and middle income brackets would have been paying markedly less tax under Labor than they would be paying under the Fraser 
Government. In furtherance of this point, I refer to a Press report from the  Sunday Telegraph  of 5 November 1978. Under the heading 'Workers $7.50 a week "worse off" ', the following is stated: 
The average Australian wage earner was now $7.50 a week worse off than he was at the end of 1 975, the Australian Taxpayers Association - 
Not the ALP or anyone connected with the 
I would like to make a short statement on this matter. Firstly, I congratulate the Government on taking the advice of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who suggested some time ago that the Government should issue a consolidated statement on its foreign investment policy. To that extent we are pleased to see what the Government has done. However, I take advantage of this time to express our concern at the way in which the Government has been progressively abandoning its policy of 1975 under which it guaranteed that strong measures would be taken to ensure substantial Australian ownership of Australian industry. This policy seems to us not to have been adhered to by the Government. While it has been in office there has been a progressive abandonment of the foreign investment policy which applied under the previous Labor Administration. 
In April of 1976 new guidelines involving some departure from Labor's guidelines were established. I shall refer quickly to the differences which were introduced at that stage. Labor stipulated a maximum of 50 per cent foreign ownership in all new mineral developments, but the new policy saw this figure as discretionary and provided a let-out clause. Labor required 100 per cent Australian ownership of new uranium developments but the Liberal Government stipulated only 75 per cent. The Labor Government was concerned that Australian real estate did not become foreign owned except in certain specific circumstances. But the new policy adopted in April of 1976 merely stated that certain acquisitions of Australian real estate by foreign interests would be examinable under the guidelines. There was also a difference in approach toward the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Labor's Foreign Investment Review Committee was changed to a smaller part-time Foreign Investment Review Board which seems to have played a very different role from that of the Committee which was in operation while the Labor Government was in office. The Foreign Investment Review Board indeed has seemed to operate more as a welcoming committee to foreign investment than a screening device. 
I turn to the figures which show the way in which the Foreign Investment Review Board has operated. The statistics for the first 15 months of its operations show that altogether in that period the Board considered 1,403 non-takeover foreign investment proposals. Only seven of those were rejected. Under the foreign takeovers legislation the Board dealt with 748 cases and rejected only three. Of 356 proposals for acquisition of real estate only one was rejected. To the Opposition this seems to indicate that there was approval of almost anything that came up. Indeed, the membership of the FIRB has been such that people appointed to it have been very pro-foreign investment and have gone around the world soliciting foreign investment. This seems to us to be a very curious role for a body which is supposed to be a screening device, which is supposed to ensure that foreign investment which comes into Australia operates in the interests of the Australian people and not some sort of advance party welcoming foreign investment on almost any terms. There is a substantial difference between the operation of the board and the Committee which it replaced. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  ought to pay some attention to that difference. 
Also there has been an abandonment of the collection of statistics on foreign ownership and control of Australian industry. That seems to the Opposition to be something which is not incidental. It is an important thing to have done. The Government justifies this by saying that the Australian Bureau of Statistics had manpower problems. These problems, of course, were imposed by the Government. It had to cut back somewhere and so this is the area which it nominated for cutbacks, along with job vacancies which I would have thought is also an important area. This chopping back in the area of statistics on foreign ownership and control means that there will not be any statistics in the future on the degree to which Australian industry is foreign owned or controlled. I find that thoroughly alarming. We will not even know to what extent Australian industry is foreign owned. That is an appalling situation. It shows how little concern the Government seems to have for what seems to the Opposition to be a very important matter, namely the extent to which Australians own and control their own country. There has been an abandonment of the resources tax, a matter which was floated a year or so ago and then dumped in the Budget this year. The Government abandoned all ideas of imposing a resources tax which may have ensured that very profitable investment projects and resource areas would have given much greater benefits to the Australian people than is currently the case. 
Finally, the Government has adopted new guidelines which were the subject of the speech just made by the Treasurer and which are contained in the booklet, the publication of which he has just announced. These guidelines introduce some important changes, particularly in relation to naturalising companies. This has been a matter of some discussion before. I will not speak about it at length. However, I point out to the House that it provides that where a company has a 25 per cent Australian equity and where a majority of directors on the board are Australian citizens, if that company commits itself to achieve a 5 1 per cent Australian ownership, then it can act as a company which is 5 1 per cent Australian owned. It may proceed as a naturalised company. In this category of being 25 per cent or more owned the company can be described as naturalising, which enables it to avoid Foreign Investment Review Board approval to develop a resource project on its own or with another Australian owned, naturalised or naturalising company. 
The Opposition has criticised this policy before but I repeat that criticism briefly. Firstly, the new rules will mean an increase in the level of foreign ownership of Australian industry, particularly in the mining area. This definitely must be the result of the breaking down of the policy that there must be at least 50 per cent Australian ownership. That is what is involved. Even in 1975-76 10 per cent of the businesses in the mining industry were foreign owned. Importantly, 59 per cent of the value added came from businesses that were foreign owned. So the industry is very much dominated by foreign capital already. That is something which must increase under the new foreign investment guidelines which are now being introduced. Also, there is no program for the move towards 5 1 per cent Australian ownership for a naturalising company. This is an appalling situation. The guidelines, as set down in the booklet which the Treasurer has just produced, simply state that there will be an understanding with the Government on practical arrangements for achieving a 5 1 per cent Australian ownership. But there is no specific program to be laid down for the move towards 5 1 per cent Australian ownership. 
What happens if a company reneges? What happens if a company decides to reach 35 per cent and then stop? We just do not know. Would the Government take any action against it? In our view at the very least if this concept is adopted there must be some formal registration so that companies which wish to be naturalising companies are forced to register and to provide a fairly detailed outline of how they will move towards 5 1 per cent Australian ownership. The company should then be required to report constantly to the registration board so that the board can monitor the degree to which the company is abiding by its original promise to move towards 5 1 per cent Australian ownership. If this is not done there is simply no control. The situation could be that companies could declare an intention one day to become Australian owned but in fact never get around to achieving it. This means that there will be a greater and greater degree of foreign ownership of Australian industry. 
Also, there is a possibility of what are known as pup companies being used to exploit the new guidelines. For instance, two 100 percent foreign owned companies operating in Australia could set up subsidiaries for the purposes of developing a new resource project. These subsidiaries may be both 25 per cent Australian owned. Therefore, they could become naturalising companies. But in that project there may be only 12V4 per cent Australian equity. Yet the companies are treated as Australian owned companies. This is an extraordinary situation. It is the kind of practice which could arise under the guidelines as announced on, I think, 8 June and as spelt out in detail in the booklet entitled  Foreign Investment in Australia  which the Treasurer has now produced. In our view these guidelines are very inadequate and will lead to a much greater degree of foreign ownership of Australian industry. They may attract some more foreign capital. However, I would have thought that the real determinant of that would be not so much the restrictions of this area, but rather the market prospects for resource projects. If those prospects are good it is highly likely that we would have raised the capital under the original guidelines. 
We would not have had to water them down and see a greater and greater proportion of Australian industry becoming foreign owned simply to develop resource projects. Market factors will be fundamentally important. 
Finally, I make the point that it seems to us that the Government, in moving further and further away from the guidelines that operated in the period of the Labor Government, is bringing an end to what has been largely a bipartisan policy in Australia on foreign investment. That is important in the context of foreign investors who wish to operate in Australia and who want a bipartisan policy. They certainly will not get it while this Government moves away from the guidelines which operated when Labor was in office, guidelines which were thoroughly sensible and in the best interests of the Australian people. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Have simulations made using the National Income Forecasting model shown that indirect tax reductions have a more favourable impact on both inflation and employment than direct tax cuts of the same magnitude. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) What has been (a) the budgeted level and (b) the actual level of expenditure on foreign aid for each financial year from and including 1974-75. 
What has been the shortfall between budgeted and actual foreign aid for each year since 1974-75. 
What proportion of GNP has foreign aid comprised for each year since 1974-75. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Have simulations been made using the National Income Forecasting Model to examine the effect of a simultaneous reduction of Government expenditure and personal tax collections. 
If so, do these simulations show that the effect of a simultaneous reduction of Government expenditure and personal tax collections is to substantially reduce the level of employment. 
What quantitative assumptions were made for the simulations. 
What quantitative effect on employment did they show. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Does the investment allowance effectively reduce the cost of capital. 
Will the investment allowance tend to reduce the ratio of the price of capital to the price of labour and therefore encourage the use of more capital-intensive techniques than would be the case without the allowance. 
Will the existence ofthe investment allowance tend to reduce the rate of growth of employment. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
What are the (a) interest liabilities and (b) debt repayment obligations of total Commonwealth and State Government securities issued overseas in Australian dollars at current exchange rates for each financial year up to and including 1988-89. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
What have been the movements in the (a) export price index, (b) import price index and (c) terms of trade in each month during the last 4 years. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 19 October 1978: 
Have estimates been made of the expected effect of Budget- induced increases in prices of petroleum products on imports of these commodities. 
If so, by how much are imports of petroleum products forecast to fall during (a) 1978-79 and(b) 1979-80. 
-As I foreshadowed during the cognate debate on these taxation measures, I wish to move as an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House- 
is of the opinion that- 
despite the passage of considerable legislation designed to close off tax avoidance loopholes, the Government has failed to legislate against various well-known tax avoidance schemes; 
the continued operation of a large scale tax avoidance industry is creating grave inequities in the incidence of taxation, substantially reducing government revenue, providing a substantial administrative burden for the Government, and imposing an increased legislative burden on the Parliament; 
the process of countering tax avoidance schemes by the continual passage of complex legislation is cumbersome and inefficient; 
the income tax law has already reached a state of exceptional complexity, and 
continued resort to the present means of countering tax avoidance will add greatly to the complexity of the tax law, and 
therefore calls on the Government to redraft the income tax legislation with a view to increasing its simplicity and efficiency, to institute an effective annihilation provision based on section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, and to implement other general provisions designed to deter and restrict tax avoidance. 
-The Bills now before the House form a part of a continuing campaign to protect the revenue against the marauding activities of tax avoiders, a campaign which the Opposition supports but believes must be made much more effective than is currently the case. The Bills also seek to plug a blatant tax loophole regarding the repatriation of profits by foreign companies operating in Australia as branches of their parent company; to protect the revenue against a recent court decision which threatens to reduce tax revenue greatly unless counteraction is taken; and they implement the concession on capital investment in Australian film rights to encourage investment by Australians in the production of Australian films. We of the Opposition support all of these measures although we consider the rate of tax that has been set for the branch profits tax to be lower than appropriate, and I will say more about that later. 
The major detail in these Bills relates to amendments to the current income tax law regarding current year losses and dividend stripping. It is pointless for me to discuss these in any detail as they are extraordinarily complex and in any case the Opposition does not oppose them. It is more important to note that the amendments are now to be subject to some 44 further technical amendments in the Committee stage as the Government tries to block off all the possible means by which the new provisions could be subject to further avoidance. The result is an almost bewildering array of technical jargon which is utterly incomprehensible to all but well versed tax lawyers, consultants and the officers of the Taxation Office, one presumes. This is a very important matter to which I will return later. 
The imposition of a branch profits tax is welcomed by the Opposition. It is indeed scandalous that a company such as Utah Development Company could announce a dividend of $ 141m for 1 977 and not pay any withholding tax on it at all because it operated in Australia as a branch of its parent company. This was possible because the current tax system discriminates in favour of foreign companies which conduct their operations in the form of an Australian branch of the parent company as against a subsidiary company which is incorporated in Australia. Subsidiaries pay company tax at 46 per cent on their Australian taxable income plus dividend withholding tax on dividends remitted to their home country. The basic rate of dividend withholding tax is 30 per cent, but this is reduced to 15 per cent where the shareholder is resident in a country with which Australia has a double taxation agreement such as the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada, New Zealand, Japan and Singapore. Branches are, for tax purposes, resident in another country. They are still liable for 46 per cent Australian company tax but remittances of branch profits to head offices do not attract additional Australian tax. This legislation is aimed at correcting the imbalance that thereby exists. 
The reason for a branch profits tax rather than a dividend withholding tax is that it is impracticable to impose a tax on the remittances of branch profits. Subsidiaries must, by law, lodge audited statutory accounts in respect of their Australian operations. It is therefore easy to determine their profit distribution. On the other hand, branches are not obliged to lodge statutory accounts regarding their Australian operations. They have to lodge only the accounts which they lodge in their home country. These accounts may contain details of the operations in several countries and are not necessarily broken up to give details of operations in individual countries. In the case of branches it is also very difficult to disaggregate their cash flow. There may be substantial cash flows throughout the year which can involve, as well as profits, loan repayments, purchases, management charges or other cash transfers. Profit remittances therefore cannot be readily identified. 
The basic reason then for the different taxing arrangement is the difficulty involved in determining the profit distribution of branches. Because of this difficulty other countries, such as New Zealand, Canada and France, have introduced a branch profits tax on branches operating in their country, and it is therefore not trendsetting for Australia to be taking this action. We are doing only what other countries have already seen fit to do. The only practical alternative would be not to tax the profit remittances of branches at all. To allow the continued tax-free repatriation of mammoth profits such as those of Utah would, in our view, be a scandalous dereliction of duty by the Government. It is bad enough that there is no resource tax applying to companies like Utah, let alone no tax on the profit repatriations. Some other overseas companies will be affected by this new tax. Companies such as Esso Exploration and Production, American Metals and the General Motors Acceptance Corporation are three which have been drawn to my attention. During the Committee stage we will argue that the rate of tax on branches should have been 8 per cent instead of 5 per cent. But I will leave that argument for that later stage in the debate. 
The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) has become necessary through a decision of the Victorian Supreme Court which, according to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  has placed revenue for the current year at risk to the extent of up to $600m. Hence he has had to introduce legislation to prevent that potential considerable loss of revenue. The matter concerns section S 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act regarding losses and outgoings incurred in gaining or producing assessable income being allowable as a tax deduction. The section makes no statement in regard to when employers may claim such liabilities as a tax deduction. 
The particular case before the Supreme Court involved a company known as Nilsen Development Laboratories Pty Ltd and concerned long service leave and annual leave. The Commissioner of Taxation up until this time has only allowed such outgoings by employers when payment was made rather than while the liability for that leave was being incurred or accrued by the employer. The Nilsen case upset this by allowing employers to claim a deduction for the cost of the employee's leave in the year in which he became entitled to the leave. In some ways this seems to us quite reasonable. It is accepted accounting practice for an employer to make provision for employee leave liability, and to allow the tax deduction at the time when provision is made would seem to be in conformity with that general accounting principle. 
The Commissioner of Taxation's interpretation of section 5 1 in this connection is not such an accepted and standard practice as the 
Treasurer claimed in his second reading speech. I understand that many firms regularly claim accrued leave and then lodge objections with the Commissioner when he disallows the claim, all this being part of a continuing program by firms to change the nature of the assessment. That being the case, it does not seem right to say it is accepted practice. It might be accepted by the Commissioner but it is certainly not accepted by many firms in this country. 
Previous committees of inquiry into taxationnot only the Aprey committee but also the Spooner and Ligertwood committees- have all recommended change in the tax law to allow leave provisions to become a tax deduction as the liability accrues rather than when it is paid. One could also argue that the refusal of a tax deduction until leave is paid also acts as a disincentive to the employment of labour. For instance, on the one hand an employer may be faced with an expense in the sense that he has to put aside year after year to cover the leave liability for labour funds for which he may not claim a tax deduction until some time hence. On the other hand he may claim in each year depreciation on machines. He may take these factors into consideration when he is deciding whether to invest in a laboursaving machine or continue with the current level of labour, that is, deciding between the employment of labour and the employment of capital. To the degree that they are taken into consideration, they would certainly make it less likely that the employer would opt for labour rather than capital. So in this area, which is now of increasing importance, given the growing impact of automation on this country, the tax law would seem to be showing a bias in this area towards capital rather than labour. I do not want to put this argument too highly but I think it does have some relevance, and to the extent that it does, it provides an argument for allowing leave to be made a tax deduction as it is provided for rather than when it is actually paid. 
However, against all this one must set the fact that there could be up to a $600m loss of revenue in this financial year, according to the Government, if the Nilsen decision is allowed to stand. Although the decision is being appealed against by the Commissioner of Taxation and, indeed, by Nilsen, which wants to be able to claim for all the leave liability which has accrued in earlier years as well, the intention of this Bill is to make sure that such revenue loss does not occur. 
There have been queries regarding the sum of $600m, and I must say that it does seem to be extraordinarily high for a loss just for leave provisions in one year. However, we do not have the basis on which to oppose or to declare that the Treasurer's assessment of this sum is incorrect, although I note that the Australian Taxpayers Association has claimed that the amount is greatly overdrawn and would in fact be far less than the sum mentioned. However, not having a sound basis on which to reach any conclusion that the Treasurer is totally wrong in this respect, we have little alternative but to accept that the Taxation Office has made some calculation of this order and to accept therefore that that is the likely loss if the law is not changed. 
For that reason we therefore support the Government's legislation. In doing so we realise that there is clear retrospectivity involved because the Bill seeks to make clear that from 1 July 1977 leave liability is claimable as a tax deduction only at the time it is paid. But we are not deterred at all by the principle of retrospectivity. In fact, we believe that there may have to be greater recourse in the future to retrospective legislation in this regard if we are to defeat the machinations of tax avoiders and protect the revenue. No one likes retrospective legislation. But the Opposition has already made it clear that it does not shrink from supporting retrospective legislation when it feels this action is justified. In this particular area the Opposition feels that there is indeed every justification for retrospective legislation, although one would seek to keep it to the minimum extent necessary. 
I turn now to consider the defects in the casebycase approach against tax avoidance which is being pursued by the present Government. There has been, of course, a rash of tax avoidance activity by the Government this year. Since acting against the Curran schemes in April the Treasurer has put out nine Press releases regarding tax avoidance measures, introduced three major Bills plus the minor machinery Bills that accompany them, foreshadowed action on 23 separate avoidance schemes plus the many varieties of each one, taken action on at least 10 schemes which have been designed to circumvent earlier announced legislation and is now about to introduce during the current debate 44 technical amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2), most of which are said to be of the slip-of-the-pen variety. I simply note in passing that there must be some very slippery pens in the Taxation Office. However, I understand the complexities of what is involved and I do not intend to be really critical in making that off-the-cuff remark. 
The effect of all this is that various tax avoidance loopholes will certainly be closed off. But it seems to us that others are just as likely to open up soon thereafter. As we have already seen, the Treasurer has had to bring in supplementary legislation to ensure that earlier tax avoidance legislation remains effective. We must realise that there is a whole industry working out how to avoid tax for those who can afford the fees. Of course these are the people with high incomes. With such complex legislation as this income tax law it is quite inevitable that highly skilled lawyers and accountants operating in this area will continue to find new loopholes as fast as the Parliament closes off existing ones, at least while we proceed in the present way. Thus this casebycase approach, in our view, is not likely to be effective in eliminating or severely restricting a blatant tax avoidance. 
There are also great administrative and legislative burdens involved in this case-by-case approach. The process of drawing up legislation to cover all the possible means by which a scheme can be used must be creating a severe administrative burden, especially as there is no seeming end to the process. As things stand, it will just go on and on, with more and more avoidance Bills being brought before this House, creating an administrative burden for the Government and, indeed, creating a parliamentary burden. We will be faced continually with a vast array of complex legislation seeking to close off new tax avoidance schemes that have been opened up. One commentator has described this whole approach as 'one of applying band-aids to a patient bleeding to death from multiple gunshot wounds '. It may not be an entirely pointless exercise to apply those band-aids, but we must recognise that it is an extremely frustrating process, knowing that it is not going to achieve any lasting effect. This surely should lead us to seek alternative means of overcoming the problem. Especially is this so when one considers the sort of tangled mess the income tax law is likely to become a few years hence if this process continues. The original Act of 1936 was 90 pages long. The Income Tax Assessment Act now is over 700 pages long and is likely to become longer in the near future. A well-known taxation lawyer,  Mr Daryl  Davies, Q.C., recently described the jumble of income tax legislation as follows: 
The Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1977 is practically incomprehensible . . . The uninitiated could not possibly read and understand the Act. Even the initiated will find difficulty in locating and bringing together all the matters that are relevant. 

 Mr Davies also pleaded for the Act to be entirely recast, and that seems to us to be an extremely sensible suggestion. We realise, of course, that recasting the Act would be no simple process. Indeed, it would raise enormous problems. But the fact is that this legislation is now so complex that inevitably it facilitates an unending stream of tax avoidance schemes. 
The Government's attack on tax avoidance schemes is not as comprehensive as it might have been. The various well-known devices to avoid tax or through which tax is reduced have been allowed by this Government to continue. Admittedly it has done quite a bit about tax avoidance, but it has allowed blatant tax avoidance areas to continue to operate. One of those areas is income splitting. As we all know, income splitting through family trusts is a blatant area of tax avoidance, and although this has been pointed out to the Government time and time again in debate, both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer have made it clear that they have no intention of moving to close off this substantial tax loophole. Income splitting through service trusts is also something which is quite open to those who wish to employ tax avoidance processes. The  Australian Financial Review  on 23 August 1978 carried an article headed 'Income-splitting upheld', and I quote briefly from that article: 
An income-splitting case of interest to all professional persons was handed down by the Federal Court this month. 
The court, in rejecting the Commissioner's appeal in Phillip's case, has ruled that the use of a service trust to carry on the non-professional activities of an accountancy practice was fully effective for tax purposes. 
The importance of the scheme used is that it enabled income to be diverted by professional practitioners to the ultimate benefit of their wives and families. 
What happens is that income is diverted to people who are in much lower tax bracketswives and children- and is therefore taxed at lower rates than if it remained in the hands of the professional person. In today's  Australian Financial Review  there is a report of a similar decision by the Federal Court of Australia in relation to income splitting by partnerships. A decision has been made enabling those who participate in partnerships to minimise their tax through income-splitting devices. Clearly, in this area it would seem that there is a lot more to be done if the Government is really serious about cutting down on tax avoidance. 
Again what about foreign-earned income? In June, when the Treasurer introduced the Bills now before the House, he spent a good third of his speech taking about the Government's plan to tax foreign-earned income at Austraiian tax rates, or to ensure that total tax paid on that income was at Australian tax rates. As we have seen since, the Government has backed right off that measure and announced that it has no intention of going on with it. When the Treasurer announced that the Government was not going to go ahead with the scheme, I made the point in a speech in this House that it did involve allowing tax avoidance to go on. At that time the Treasurer seemed to think that I was being unfair and that he was concerned only with equity. It is not just a matter of equity, it is a matter of tax avoidance as well, and the two are closely related. I draw the attention of the Treasurer to a recent advertisement for the Small Business Letter in the newspapers which read: 
Tax havens overseas. 
Treasurer Howard has thrown the gate wide open for you to minimise tax through overseas tax shelters. 
That relates to the fact that the Treasurer, on behalf of the Government, announced that they were backing right off the proposal to clamp down on these foreign tax havens by taxing foreign-earned income at Australian tax rates. So there we see two examples- income splitting and foreign-earned income- where the Government if it was really serious about this matter could be doing a lot more. 
The result of all this- the ineffectiveness of the action taken against tax avoidance and the tolerance of some tax avoidance procedures- is that the tax system is becoming very inequitable, and that is of great concern to the Opposition. Payasyouearn taxpayers- the great wage and salary earners of this country- have little or no chance to avoid tax in the way that is open to those who do not come under the PA YE provisions. 
I draw the attention of the House to what has happened over the last few years to the level of tax raised from PA YE taxpayers and others who do not come under the pay-as-you-earn provisions. In the period from 1976-77 to 1978-79-1 am using the Budget Estimates- net PAYE tax increased by 21.2 per cent but other personal income tax- I am talking about provisional taxpayers- increased by only 2.9 per cent There has been very little increase indeed, and the high income earners are in the second category, the personal income tax area. They are not increasing their tax payments to the Government because they are able to utilise tax avoidance techniques, despite all the efforts of this Government to this stage to close them off. As I mentioned, a lot more could have been done if the Government was really serious about it. It is also relevant to note that over the last few years there has been a move towards a larger proportion of the work force being self-employed and therefore not paying pay-as-you-earn tax. However, despite that, we still have this very low rate of increase for non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers during the period from 1976-77 to 1978-79. 
In considering what alternative approach can be taken, one has to bear in mind that the problem for the Government has been made much more difficult than it otherwise would have been by the actions of the High Court in this country. I do not have time to go into this area in any detail, but I think it is well known by all honourable members that section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act is one that has been written down by the High Court over the last decade or so to the point of near meaninglessness. Yet on the face of it, to the layman it seems to say quite clearly that tax avoidance procedures are void as against the Commissioner- absolutely void, to use the words of the section. Somehow this has been interpreted by the High Court as not applying and therefore the Government has no general annihilation provision, as it is known, in the Act, working to prevent tax avoidance schemes being utilised. Of course, this makes it extremely difficult. The alternative approach the Government is now employing, not having an effective annihilation provision, is to legislate against every tax avoidance scheme that it finds out about, but that has all the problems I have been talking about in regard to the complexity of the law and the administrative and parliamentary burden. It is a very unsatisfactory alternative, and it seems to us that the Government, if it is really serious about chopping off tax avoidance in this country, must do something about section 260. It should not just accept the fact that the High Court is able to ignore the wishes of parliament when it introduced such a provision and to interpret that section in a way which renders it virtually meaningless. 
In considering what kind of action can be taken by the Government to overcome tax avoidance, let me make a few points. The first thing it must do is to create in the minds of the community a sense of immorality regarding enormous tax avoidance. Probably everyone tries to cheat the Commissioner of Taxation to some small degree, either by overstating the amount of his chemist bills or doing something similar. I am sure that most people in this community understate their income to a degree. But the amounts involved are very small and for most people the tax avoidance is very minor. What we are talking about are the actions of people who are able to undertake absolutely artificial schemes that are blatantly designed to avoid paying tax. In some cases those schemes wipe out totally their tax liability and in other cases that liability is wiped out for years in advance. Of course, we are talking about people on very high incomes. It is totally inequitable that we should allow that procedure to continue. 
We say that the first thing the Government must do is to create in the minds of people the feeling that it is immoral to engage in such blatant tax avoidance. If we can create great community indignation about such tax avoidance and the realisation that those people who are able to escape from their tax liabilities are imposing a greater burden on the rest of us who are unable to engage in such practices, we may find eventually that the judiciary of this country will be forced to pay more regard to the wishes of Parliament than it seems to be doing at the present time. 
Nevertheless, we feel that we ought to try to take other action, such as revamping section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. A couple of alternative drafts of section 260 have been made available to me, one by  Dr Uri  Grbich, a senior lecturer in law at Monash University and the other by another tax lawyer who wishes to remain anonymous. One is an extremely detailed and lengthy rewrite of section 260 and the other is an attempt to explain that section in a very simple form. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  those two alternative drafts of section 260. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Another measure that can be taken is to ban all advertising of tax avoidance schemes. I cannot see why, for instance, the McCabe letter should be able to advertise 'income tax wipe out'. No detail is given as to exactly how the people behind that can wipe out income tax entirely, but they are able to advertise schemes which claim that if they are followed one's tax obligation will be totally obliterated. I do not think we should make it easier for people to evade tax by allowing the advertising of such schemes. 
I turn now to retrospectivity. As I mentioned previously, the Opposition does not shrink from endorsing retrospectivity in this area. As I have said previously, we think there is absolutely nothing wrong with backdating legislation at least to the beginning of the financial year in which the Taxation Office discovers the operation of a tax avoidance scheme. That would seem to be very limited retrospectivity indeed. If that did not go far enough, we would not shrink from applying retrospectivity beyond that datefor example, to the period when a tax avoidance scheme first began to operate. I think that the application of retrospectivity is an element which absolutely ruins the tax avoidance industry. If retrospectivity were introduced in relation to every scheme the tax avoidance industry simply could not operate. The existence or otherwise of retrospectivity means the life or death of the tax avoidance industry. If members of the Government are really serious about preventing these practices from continuing they ought to think more seriously than they have in the past about supporting full scale retrospectivity. 
There are other measures which can be taken. I refer to the imposition of fines and even perhaps taking such matters out of the hands of the courts altogether, as has been recommended by the Emeritus Professor of Law at the Australian National University, Professor Geoffrey Sawer. I do not have time to go into that matter now. At the approprate stage I will be moving an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment BUI (No. 2) 1978. Although that Bill is currently being debated cognately with other Bills, we are formally debating the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) 1978. So I will move that amendment at a later time. 
-I wish to make a couple of remarks in respect of the 43 amendments which have been moved by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  In moving these amendments and describing them as being of a technical nature, he emphasises and gives force to the point that I was making in my second reading speech in the cognate debate, namely, that it is quite impossible for the Parliament properly to consider legislation of this enormous complexity, particularly when it is given to us with such little notice. Even though it was given to me prior to the start of this debate, the point I make is valid. It is impossible for us properly to consider the ramifications of such an enormous number of amendments to what is already complex legislation. I simply reiterate the point I made previously. We must find another way in which to deal with tax avoidance in this country. In the short run, admittedly, we are supporting what the Government is doing. In no way do I say that the Government should not be introducing this kind of legislation. But while we say that the Government in the short run has no alternative but to take the kind of measures that it has taken, in the longer term it should also be taking the kind of action which will ensure that this is not a continuing feature of this Parliament over the next umpteen years. 
We have to find a way of beating tax avoidance which does not involve the ludicrous procedure of incredibly complex legislation being brought before this Parliament and that legislation then being subject to further amendments which, quite frankly, are beyond the ability of the Opposition members to understand in the time given to us to consider them. We cannot understand properly what is being put before the Parliament. We endorse entirely the Government's measures. However, we take as an act of faith from the Government that what it is doing is to ensure that the original legislation introduced on 8 June 1978 will be reinforced by the 43 amendments now before the Parliament. 
Surely, in the longer term, this is not the kind of procedure that we want to adopt. Therefore, I reemphasise the point that eventually we must find an alternative method. Surely that must take the form of a blanket provision in the legislation which will make it unnecessary for this kind of procedure to be adopted in the future. 
I wish to address myself to clause 6 which relates to the rate of tax to be imposed by the Income Tax (Non-Resident Companies) Bill 1978. The rate that is to be imposed is 5 per cent. I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to what is involved in a 5 per cent branch profits tax. It would involve a tax of 5 per cent being levied on the taxable income of a branch that is operating in Australia. This is to be a simulation of what might have been paid by the company as dividend withholding tax had that branch been operating as a subsidiary. I will give an example. If taxable income was $100, both the subsidiary and the branch would pay $46 in company tax, leaving distributable income of $54. If there was a 60 per cent distribution in dividend repatriation this would give a dividend withholding tax for a subsidiary of $4.86. A 5 per cent branch profits tax, being a tax levied on the whole taxable income prior to company tax, would result in $5 being paid. There is a rough equivalence. In other words, the branch profits tax has been pitched at such a level as to equate it with a dividend withholding tax where there is about a 60 per cent distribution. 
This seems to us to be a not unreasonable assumption of what the distribution may be although of course it would vary significantly from firm to firm. At present the most obvious company to be discussed in this context is Utah Mining Australia Ltd but it would be distributing a much higher proportion than 60 per cent; therefore the tax of 5 per cent would mean an equivalent of much less than the amount that would be raised by a dividend withholding tax if it were applied to that company had it been operating as a subsidiary rather than a branch. It seems to us that there is a reasonable case therefore to argue not just in the case of Utah but in general for the branch profits tax to be pitched at a higher level than what might be a reasonable equivalent of a dividend withholding tax had the branch been operating as a subsidiary. That is because we think the operations of branches ought to be discouraged and there ought to be perhaps some taxation discouragement to a company operating as a branch in this country rather than as a subsidiary. 
As I understand, there are some advantages for companies to operate as branches rather than as subsidiaries in this country. For instance, subsidiaries must lodge audited statutory accounts for their Australian operations whilst branches have no such obligations unless they wish to borrow money in Australia. Therefore there can be this advantage in not being required to meet the obligations of subsidiaries in respect of having to lodge audited statutory accounts. Secondly there is the matter of repatriation of funds. Subsidiaries have much greater controls imposed on them. Should they wish to liquidate and take their funds out of the country they have to go through a protracted liquidation process. This is not so in the case of branches, as I understand it, and it is much easier for branches simply to pack up and take their money out of the country without having to go through the significant requirements for subsidiaries that wish to undertake that process. Thirdly, in respect of insurance companies of which I understand quite a few branches are operating in this country, as subsidiaries, they face much greater control under the Insurance Act than do branches. It is more difficult, therefore, to control the solvency and re-insurance requirements of branches in the insurance industry. 
It seems to us, therefore, that there are some benefits for Australia as a whole in saying that we do not want foreign companies to operate here as branches. If they are to operate here, they should form an Austraiian subsidiary. If they do that we will know much more about what they are doing. We can exercise much more control over their operations. That seems to us to be a desirable aim for the Australian Government to have in respect of foreign companies operating in Australia. 
Had it been open to me to do so- under the Standing Orders it is not- I would have proposed that the branch profits tax be pitched at 8 per cent rather than at 5 per cent. Pitching it at 8 per cent would mean that this would equate a 100 per cent distribution of dividend withholding tax at the rate of 15 per cent. We would have proposed that simply as a means of discouraging foreign companies from operating in this country as branches rather than as subsidiaries. The Treasurer might bear in mind for future reference that it is not in the best interest of Australia to have branches. If he wishes to discourage branch operations in this country, an effective way of going about that is to impose a penalty in the form of a branch profits tax higher than that which would apply in the form of a dividend withholding tax had the company been operating as a subsidiary. 
I address a question to the Treasurer concerning today's announcement that the Government has decided to approve the takeover of Bushells Investments Ltd by the United Kingdom-based firm of Brooke Bond Liebig Ltd. Is it a fact that as Bushells has 56 per cent of the Australian tea market, its takeover by a foreign company will mean that the Australian tea market is 70 per cent foreign controlled? Is the Treasurer aware that this year the Brooke Bond company has been the subject of criticism by the British Prices Commission for overcharging on its tea by 30 per cent? Will the Treasurer explain to the House what benefits to Australia the Government sees in allowing this foreign takeover? 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Sales Tax Assessment (Nos 1 to 9) Amendment Bills 1978 that are now before the House close off five tax avoidance schemes which, by varying means, seek to reduce artificially the wholesale price on which sales tax is levied so as to reduce the amount of sales tax that is paid. The most spectacular of these schemes is the one which involves the selling of new motor vehicles for as little as $20 with the rest of the price being described as an option to purchase, thus enabling a reduction in sales tax from $500 or more to as little as $3. 
Of course the Opposition supports these Bills. At this late hour of the night I do not wish to go into any great length in respect of what is involved in the legislation. One could have mentioned various relevant points but I will refrain from doing so because of the time at which we are debating this legislation. However, I would like to make the point, in supporting this legislation, that the Opposition has consistently supported the measures against tax avoidance which have been introduced by the Government this year. Indeed it has suggested various ways in which they could be improved. We supported that legislation because we clearly believed that the loss of legitimate government revenue should be prevented and that the continuation of tax avoidance schemes reduced the equity of the tax system. 
In this connection I reject the claim by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that this Government has done more to increase equity in the tax system than has any other government and that the Labor Government did nothing about it. That is the repeated refrain from the Treasurer. I must say that it is one which stretches the truth more than somewhat. The fact is that tax avoidance has become far worse under this Government than was the case previously and that this has necessitated the legislation which has been introduced. 
-The honourable member for Fadden would not know the first thing about it. The reality is that we have had an explosion of tax avoidance. At a time when the country has been moving into recession at a rate of knots the one growth industry to which we can all point is the tax avoidance industry. In those circumstances it is inevitable that, with an explosion of tax avoidance schemes and measures, therefore there is a need to introduce legislation to overcome those tax avoidance schemes. That has not been necessary in the past. I do not wish to belabour this point, but it is a fact that the Treasurer has sought to make great capital out of the fact that this Government, by blocking off tax avoidance schemes, has introduced greater equity into the taxation system. Having that tax avoidance legislation passed has been necessary simply to retain the existing level of equity in the system. The equity of a tax system is in no way enhanced if the only reason for that legislation is to close off tax avoidance schemes which had not been operating in the past. Indeed, that in general is the situation, and that is the situation in respect of this legislation. As I understand the situation and as I am advised by the Taxation Office- 
-The honourable member would not know the first thing about it. As I understand the position as explained by the Taxation Office, the sales tax avoidance schemes which are operating now are of relatively recent vintage. Indeed some are as recent as the past two or three months. In those circumstances, of course, the Government is acting to protect revenue, and rightly so. I support that action fully. Such action would not have been necessary a few years ago because these schemes were not in operation. That is the fact. Obviously we have to legislate now because the schemes are in operation. The practice of tax avoidance has moved from the income tax area, where the major emphasis has been, into the sales tax area. Because the Act had not been amended in respect of tax avoidance for some 30 years, there was clearly ample scope for the smart operators to find loopholes. That in fact is what has happened in the last year or so. Consequently action has been taken. That action is a product of the increased activity of tax avoiders. That is the reality of the situation and that is the way in which we must interpret the legislation which is being brought forward, not by a government which came into office with some great crusading zeal to smash the tax avoidance industry but rather by a government which has had to act in this way in order to protect revenue because of the greatly increased activity of the tax avoiders. 
-The Bill before the House gives effect to the Grants Commission recommendation that a special assistance grant of $2 1.7m be paid to Queensland this year. This sum is broken up into two amounts. The first amount of $5. 7m is a completion grant for the year 1976-77. The second amount of $16m represents an advance grant for the financial year 1978-79. The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. The purpose of these grants is to compensate a State for its lower revenue raising capacity than the more populous States and for the greater costs of providing services than in those States because of such factors as distance and population spread. The grant represents a final calculation of the amount needed to put a claimant State on the basis of being able to provide services to the same standard as in the more populous States, that is, New South Wales and Victoria, if that claimant State were to utilise its taxable capacity to the same degree as those States. Some of the difference in taxable capacity is made up by higher per capita payments under the tax sharing arrangements. 
If the State still believes that it is at a disadvantage with regard to revenue or expenditure it can claim a further payment through the Grants Commission. The only claimant State in 1976-77 and so far in 1978-79 is Queensland although I hasten to add that Tasmania which has not been a claimant State in recent years has lodged a claim in respect of the 1977-78 financial year. This payment is assessed by a very detailed investigation by the Commonwealth Grants Commission into the revenue and expenditure needs of the claimant State. The revenue needs are assessed by calculating the amount of revenue the State could have raised if its taxes and other charges were at the same level of severity as the average of those in New South Wales and Victoria and by comparing that sum with the amount that would result from applying the average per capita revenue of New South Wales and Victoria to the whole population of Queensland. The difference between these two amounts is the measure of the claimant State's need for financial assistance arising from its lower capacity to raise revenue in practice. 
Queensland's taxable capacity is rather below that of the other States. Half the revenue lost resulting from its lower taxable capacity is made up by its greater capacity to raise revenue from mining and land. The prime reason for the lower taxable capacity per head in Queensland is simply that its income per head is the lowest of all the States. That is perhaps a surprising fact to learn given what one hears about Queensland and what we know about its natural advantages. Details relating to this fact are contained in the Grants Commission report. Table C-12 on page 127 shows that in 1976-77-the latest year for which statistics are available- the personal income per head of population in Queensland was $4,563 compared to an Australian average of $4,995. Queensland had the lowest figure of all the States. The next lowest was Tasmania with $4,696. That is a broad indicator of the lessened taxable capacity of a State. It is also reflected, as one would expect, in the lower levels of personal consumption expenditure per head of population. Tables relating to that factor are contained on page 1 3 1 of the Grants Commission report. The tables show that in 1976-77 Queensland had the lowest personal consumption expenditure per head of population of all the States. It was 9.3 per cent below the average. The figures indicate broadly that this State which has many natural advantages nevertheless has the lowest figures of all the States in respect of income and, therefore, has a diminished taxable capacity compared with the other States. 
A claimant State is assessed to have an expenditure need when it has to spend a larger amount per capita than the average per capita cost in New South Wales and Victoria in providing a government service of the same range and quality as in those States. The Commission found that, because Queensland has a higher proportion of its population in the age group of 0 to 18 years than New South Wales and Victoria, it has need for a greater per capita expenditure on child welfare, for instance. Similarly, it found that Queensland's higher ratio of farm units of population than Victoria and New South Wales increases its expenditure needs on services for agriculture. I note also that an assessment is made of Queensland's needs for higher per capita expenditure on police. This is because of the remote and sparsely settled areas of Queensland and the cost of providing police services to them. 
I say in passing that I hope the Grants Commission, in determining grants in the future, will not give such dispersal of police services any added weight because of the Government's periodic calling in of police from outlying areas to Brisbane to prevent people undertaking their democratic rights to march in protest through that city. The cost of administering this undemocratic law is enormous. It has certainly cost Queensland millions of dollars. I sincerely hope that the Grants Commission will not in any way recommend that the Commonwealth subsidise such blatantly undemocratic behaviour by the Queensland Government. If it did so recommend, we would be obliged to take a harsher view of the legislation giving effect to such a recommendation than we have taken of the legislation now before the House. 
The report of the Grants Commission is extremely detailed. It contains a great deal of comparative information regarding expenditure, revenue, economic circumstances and performance of the various States. In the context of this Bill, it is particularly relevant to look at the comparative level of expenditure on important services provided by the State governments. I refer to page 156 of the Grants Commission Report. Table E-7 indicates net State expenditure on certain social services from Consolidated Revenue and special funds. It also shows the total amount spent by various States on various social services on a per capita basis. Queensland's performance in this regard is appalling. The total amount spent by Queensland on social services per capita is 12V4 per cent below the average of the six States. It is the lowest of any State. The total amount spent by Queensland per capita in 1976-77 was $308.06 compared with a State average of $351.97. In this regard, Queensland does not fare well. 
In table E-6 on pages 154 and 155 of the Grants Commission Report, expenditures on social services are broken up into more detail. I ask the House to consider the deficiencies in the services provided by Queensland in these important respects: On secondary education, the expenditure per head by Queensland is 27.2 per cent less than the average of the six States. On technical education, expenditure per head by Queensland is 23.2 per cent below the average of the six States. On libraries and museums expenditure by Queensland is 23.4 per cent below the average of the six States. The total in this education area which includes those I have mentioned- primary education, training of teachers and so on- is 11.7 per cent below the average of the six States. With regard to health, hospitals and welfare for public health, Queensland spends 41.1 per cent less per capita than the average of the six States. In respect of hospitals, an area where one would have thought Queensland had a lot to be proud of, given the history of free hospitalisation in that State, we find that it spends 8.4 per cent less per capita on hospitals than is the average for the six States. On mental hospitals Queensland spends 36.7 per cent less per capita than the average of all States. With regard to relief of the aged, indigent and infirm- one would have thought a very worthy area of expenditure- Queensland spends 57.4 per cent less per capita than the average of all the States. With regard to recreation, Queensland spends 34.4 per cent less than the average of all the States. On child welfare, Queensland spends 18.6 per cent less than the average of all the States. In this total area of health, hospital and welfare, Queensland spends 21.5 per cent less than the average of the six States for such per capita expenditure. 
However, perhaps not surprisingly, Queensland expenditure on police is above the average of that of the six States- 2.8 per cent above the average. There we see by looking at those tables a rather remarkable exposition of the degree to which the State of Queensland has given extraordinarily low priority to expenditures on what one would have thought were absolutely essential and very worthy areas of expenditure. It is an appalling record that the expenditure in those areas is so low, particularly- I emphasise this- as the very legislation that we are now discussing is designed and its very purpose is to enable the claimant States- in this case it is Queensland- to be able to provide services which are at the same standard and quality as those provided by the more populous States. That is what this legislation is all about. 
Queensland has been getting these grants since 1971 and yet the standard of service that it provides per capita is quite clearly far below that of the other States in these very many worthy areas. That is an extraordinary indictment of the administration and government of the State of Queensland. It is a factor which should be borne in mind by the people of Queensland that they are getting a level of service in these very important areas of education, health and welfare which is far below that being provided by the other States, despite the fact that their own government is being funded by the Federal Government specifically with funds designed to enable the Queensland Government to provide services which are of the same standard, quality and range as those provided by the other States. This is an extraordinary revelation and one which should be borne in mind by the members of this House and by the people of Queensland. In conclusion, it is also relevant in this context to bear in mind that Queensland was the leader in the abolition of probate as it is called at the State level. Queensland has sacrificed revenueperhaps it is politically popular to do it- but it has sacrificed an important area of revenue. 
In 1976-77 the amount was $25m and since 1 January 1977 no probate has been applied on estates in Queensland. Queensland has abandoned this area of taxation. It is true that other States have moved towards the abolition of probate but by being the leader Queensland has suffered a loss of revenue which is not made up in any way by equalisation grants such as the one we are discussing at the moment. Therefore, having lost that revenue, it has to make up that revenue from some other area or reduce services even more. I think the most likely thing that the Queensland 
Government would do would be to restrict the level of services it provides even more than it has done hitherto. Of course this is the other side of the coin. 
If you lose the revenue from such taxation areas as probate which apply only at levels which are relatively high- although at the State level that is less true than it has been in the federal area- there has to be some other loss somewhere else; either you raise taxes in some other area or you reduce services; it may be that you do not expand services. In Queensland there is clearly a desperate need to expand the services in the health, education and welfare area. If you lose this kind of revenue on probate then you suffer either from increased income taxes or reduced services. In Queensland there is no scope whatever for a reduction in the standard of services as they are already far below that of the other States. The disadvantaged people of Queensland, those who are the most disadvantaged, the most dependent on these sorts of services, are the most disadvantaged people in Australia and are the ones who suffer most from such moves as the total abolition of probate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
What has been the real level of (a) total public expenditure and (b) Commonwealth Government expenditure on education ona 1974-75 basis for each year since 1974-75. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice on, 17 October 1978: 
Did a former Treasurer give explicit instructions in 
October  1 975  for a set of forecasts from the National Income Forecasting model to be prepared for publication. 
Are there any difficulties which would prevent current forecasts from the model being published. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
What is the estimated price elasticity of demand for imports in Australia. 
What are the estimated price elasticities of demand for important types of imported goods such as petroleum, passenger motor vehicles, electrical machinery, non-electrical machinery and domestic appliances. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on21 November 1978: 
1 ) What were the total receipts and outlays of Commonwealth Government authorities for each year from 1972-73 to 1977-78. 
What was the total deficit of Commonwealth Government authorities for each year from 1972-73 to 1977-78. 
In which year did the highest deficit occur for Commonwealth Government authorities taken together. 
What are the implications for the money supply and the rate of inflation of the deficit in 1 978-79. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Will the trading banks receive a fee for acting as agents of the Primary Industry Bank in its lending activities. If so, how will the fee be calculated. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 978: 
1 ) By how much will the increase in prices for petroleum products resulting from the levy introduced in the 1978 Budget, increase average fuel expenditure costs in the (a) pastoral, (b) wheat/sheep, (c) high rainfall zones of the grazing industries and (d) for all farms in the wheat industry. 
By how much are the Budget-induced changes to prices of petroleum products estimated to increase average fuel expenditure costs in the period 1976-77 to 1979-80 in the (a) pastoral, (b) wheat/sheep, (c) high rainfall zones of the grazing industries and (d) for all farms in the wheat industry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Has the Commonwealth Banking Corporation any influence in the setting of Bankcard interest rates. 
My question concerns the Prime Minister's repeated assurances to the Australian people that inflation would continue to fall. Is it a fact that for the past year the annual rate of inflation has been around the 8 per cent level and that in the December quarter the increase of 2.3 per cent was the highest quarterly rise for a year? Is the Prime Minister aware that the price index of materials used in manufacturing industry increased by 22 per cent in the year to November last and that for non-imported materials the increase was 32 per cent? In view of these figures and the certainty of inflationary pressures continuing, will he advise the House whether the Government stands by its Budget estimates of inflation? If not, what are the Government 's current inflation estimates? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
What is the additional (a) net interest liability and (b) debt repayment cost in Australian dollars for Australia's total official overseas borrowing caused by exchange rate changes since 30 June 1977. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
What were the levels of (a) full-time staff, including staff on leave, (b) casual or part-time staff and (c) total staff employed in the Australian Bureau of Statistics as at (i) 30 June 1975, (ii) 30 June 1976, (iti) 30 June 1977 and (iv) 30 June 1978. 
What ceilings have been set for each of these staff categories for 30 June 1979. 
What was the average level of employment for the Bureau during (a) 1974-75, (b) 1975-76, (c) 1976-77 and (d) 1977-78. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Which members of the staff of the Foreign Investment Review Board have worked on exchange programs with private sector companies since the Board 's inception. 
With which companies have they worked and during what periods. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
What offsetting investments in Australian technology or expertise were made under the Australian Industries Participation Scheme for (a) major defence, and (b) civil aviation purchases during 1977-78. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  boasted that he had the runs on the board but his problem is that he has more unemployment runs on the board than any previous Treasurer in our history. He has 493,000 runs on the board at the present time, and the previous best was 480,000 in the recession of the 1930s. That is the major problem that he has to face. He has so many runs on the board that he is the leading century maker among Australian Treasurers. That is a major problem not only for him but also for his Government, and it is about time this Government started to think about its whole strategy and do something about the fact that it has more runs on the board than any previous government has had. 
The Treasurer said that the Government had followed a consistent strategy for noninflationary economic growth. We say that that claim is absolutely absurd. It has followed a strategy all right but it has been a strategy for continued economic recession, not for economic growth, and the Government has not even been consistent in the implementation of that strategy. Why would a government which says that the defeat of inflation is the prime target introduce substantial increases in indirect taxes and crude oil prices in one mammoth blow and thus greatly increase inflation and renew inflation expectations in this country? Is that consistent with the Government's stated policy? Is it a policy designed to bring about not inflation but economic growth if it continually grinds the country further and further into recession? That is what this Government is doing. 
The Government cannot keep on saying that things are getting better and ask us to look at this month's retail sales figures or at that month's building supplies figures. It has to look at the overall figures, and they are getting worse. It is about time the Government started facing the realities. The fact is that the economy is much more recessed now than it was three years ago when this Government came into office. Inflation has been reduced- we acknowledge that- from the 12 per cent it was in the year before the Labor Government was taken out of office to 8 per cent in the last year, but it has been reduced at enormous cost. The policy which this Government has followed has been a policy, it is said, of beating inflation first. It is said that that is the prime strategy; we have to get inflation down and once we have done that there will be some spontaneous natural revival of the economy. Now, where is the evidence to support that claim? What evidence do we have anywhere that that is likely to be the result of this Government's policy, a policy which is forcing the economy further and further into recession? What makes us believe that there will be this spontaneous economic recovery eventually? Is there any evidence that it is happening here? No. As I have said, our economy is much more recessed now, despite a lower level of inflation, than it was three years ago. 
Is there any evidence of such a spontaneous economic recovery overseas? No, there is not, despite what the Treasurer said towards the end of his speech. What evidence does he have that in other countries a reduction in the level of inflation has brought about a situation in which there has been a spontaneous natural growth of the economy? In West Germany there has not been, despite the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is reported as saying that Chancellor Schmidt said to him that it takes four years before a reduction in the level of inflation leads to spontaneous economic growth. The fact is that the West German Government has been forced to increase public expenditure substantially in order to try to revive its own economy and get the unemployment figures down. The unemployment rate in West Germany in the last 12 months was 2.4 per cent, with a very low rate of inflation; but it has not brought about spontaneous economic growth. 
In fact, if the Treasurer looks at the  Economist  of 5 August 1978 he will see a report- I am sure that he is aware of its general terms- of the West German Government's decision to introduce a $US6 billion package to stimulate the economy. The report in the  Economist  states: 
In fact, halfway through the second year in which growth is falling far below brave government predictions, it is an admission that the public sector needs, in a most ungermanic way, to lead the economy up the growth trail. 
In other words, the Government has to spend some money to try to get the economy going again because it has been recessed by the processes which have been used to reduce inflation, processes which did not naturally bring about economic recovery. The West German Government has had to implement a policy of stimulating the public sector to try to effect economic recovery. Further on the article states: 
So the post-Bonn package is, in effect, an admission that the public sector needs to keep its foot continuously pressed on the accelerator to spark growth. 
That is what it is all about. There is no evidence of the success of the basic policy being pursued by this Government, not even in West Germany, where the Prime Minister says he does have some evidence of its success. The evidence does not exist there. In fact, the contrary is the case. The evidence is that when a government recesses the economy to beat inflation it eventually has to increase public expenditure to get economic growth going. The same story is true in Japan. At the present time Japan is battling to achieve its 6 per cent growth rate, and in order to bring that about the Japanese Government has introduced a Budget providing a 20 per cent increase in public works expenditure because it realises that this is the area where there are high multipliers flowing into all sections of the economy and the area which generates economic growth. Low inflation in Japan- 3. 5 per cent in the last 12 months- has not been enough in itself to stimulate economic recovery. The Japanese Government has had to go for a policy of increased government expenditure. It has channelled money into the public works area particularly- a sensible approach- to try to stimulate the economy and get economic growth going again. 
So, economic recovery will not just happen spontaneously and normally. We can increase unemployment by another 250,000 or so, or perhaps even get inflation down to 4 per cent, but there are enormous costs involved in doing that; and still it will not bring about spontaneous economic recovery, as the West German and 
Japanese examples show. In the United States, as the Treasurer mentioned, the fact is that nine million jobs have been created in the past three years, compared with very few in this country, and a lot of the stimulus for growth there was also due to increased expenditure in the public sector. By way of contrast, in that country there has been a massive job creation program as a result of which, by the middle of last year, some three-quarters of a million people were employed. But the Government ignores all the lessons to be learnt from what has happened in other countries. The reason we will not get spontaneous growth by grinding the economy down and eliminating inflation is that we would just wipe out all expectation that economic recovery will occur. 
There is some sort of natural trade cycle. After there has been a certain degree of recession people start to think that things will come good again. They start to make decisions, perhaps on the expectation of some recovery. If the Government continually introduces policies which grind away that optimism, eventually it takes an enormous amount of stimulus by the Government to try to get the economy going again. A substantial stimulus will be needed in this country in various ways as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has outlined if we are to get economic growth going again. We will not get it by pursuing the present policies and simply by reducing inflation. What we need are policies which reduce inflation and, at the same time, seek to stimulate economic recovery. 
The process which the Government is pursuing is utterly irresponsible and inhuman. The economic costs are enormous. For example, for every 100,000 people unemployed there is a loss of $1.15 billion in wages. That is a loss of over $400m in government revenue. Five hundred thousand people are unemployed at present. The loss of income, output and government revenue is enormous. If we had full employment, government revenues would be about $2 billion greater than they will be now. Extra income would be earned and more tax would be paid. The Government does not seem to see the logic in this kind of approach. The severe social costs of unemployment cannot be ignored. Perhaps Government supporters do not have as many unemployed people in their electorates as Labor supporters have. The unemployed people tend to be amongst the unskilled workers, semi-skilled workers and migrants. Members of the Labor Party see more of those people and are more aware of the social costs. Perhaps this is why we feel more strongly about them. 
The Government must have regard to the enormous damage it is doing to people in the community. Five hundred thousand people are unemployed. They are not just 500,000 statistics. They are being badly damaged in their whole expectations of the future and in their lifestyles. That is something that has to be borne in mind by this Government. This Government's policies are based on completely false notions about wages. I draw the attention of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to the fact that even the Australian Industries Development Association does not support his Government's policies on wages. In its recent report entitled 'Understanding Unemployment' it states that cuts in real wages will not bring about reduced unemployment. The AIDA is a body which is sponsored by major employers in this country. It is taking away from the Government one of the basic features of its economic policy, that is, that we must reduce real wages in order to reduce unemployment. That is false as the AIDA says. The Prime Minister says that for every job created in the Public Service four or five jobs in the private sector are lost. What is the evidence for that statement? What absolute and arrant nonsense it is. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I second the motion. The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has an obligation to explain to the Parliament - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Gellibrand be not further heard. 
. whether the reports of his resignation are true or not. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member for Gellibrand will resume his seat. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
-I wish to address my remarks to that part of the speech delivered today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which referred to the economy. The basic message of this part of the Prime Minister's speech was that there was cause for optimism, that things were getting better and that economic recovery was in sight. What an arrogant, unrepentant statement it really was. It contained no acknowledgement of failure. Reading the speech, one would never have known that this was the speech of a Prime Minister who has taken the country to the level at which there are half a million registered unemployed people. The statement contained no suggestion that he presided over an enormous intensification of economic recession. Rather, it contained this note of enormous optimism that things will get better and that economic recovery is with us. 
I would like to quote the Prime Minister's exact words on that point. He said: 
There is a growing and justifiable mood of optimism about Australia 's economic prospects. 
That is an utterly unreal statement to make when one looks at what the people in our country are feeling at the present time. The  Bulletin  of 13 February contained an article headed 'The outlook is grim, most Australians think'. I will quote from the first paragraph of that article which states: 
Of 19 nations surveyed by the international Gallup Poll, Australians are the most pessimistic regarding unemployment and industrial relations in 1979. Overall Australians are not expecting a better year this year. These are highlights of a world-wide 'end of year survey' conducted at the end of 1978. 
The article then lists tables which deal with various topics such as unemployment, the difficulties ahead, and whether people expect things to get better in various countries around the world. Only 34 per cent of Australians expected that 1979 would be a better year as opposed to 57 per cent a year earlier. When questioned on unemployment, 70 per cent of 
Australians expected more unemployment in 1979 compared to only 57 per cent who thought a year earlier that there would be more unemployment in the ensuing year. Of the 14 or 15 countries listed, the people of Australia were the most pessimistic about unemployment in 1979. That is what the people of Australia think about the prospects for this year. Under the heading of difficulties ahead', the tables show that 58 per cent of Australians expect a year of economic difficulty. Only the people of France and the United States of America are more pessimistic. Just in terms of whether the Prime Minister is making comments which fit in with the mood of the electorate, it is quite clear that he is not. 
Of course, it could be argued that nevertheless the Prime Minister is right and the people are wrong, that the Prime Minister's assessments of what will happen in 1979 are really on the ball. Certainly, it would be good news for the whole nation if what he was saying were right, if economic recovery were about to occur. The basic question all of us in this nation must ask ourselves is: Can we believe the Prime Minister? The answer to that question must be a resounding no for two basic reasons: Firstly, this Prime Minister's credibility has been totally shattered by a whole array of broken promises and false forecasts in the three and a bit years that he has been the Prime Minister of this country. I will allude quickly to some of the basic promises that have been broken and to some of the forecasts which have been proved to be untrue. In 1975, the basic promise was 'jobs for all who want to work'. Instead, the Prime Minister has presided over a Government under which there have been increases in unemployment totalling 230,000 since he made that promise. 'Unemployment to fall after February 1978 and keep falling' was another promise. In fact, it has increased by 61,000. Within a couple of months of being in government the Prime Minister broke the promise made about support for wage indexation. We were told also that the Government would retain Medibank. We all know what has happened to that scheme. It has been demolished in all but name. We were also promised that there would be twice yearly adjustments of pensions. We all know what happened in respect of that promise. Only last night Government members reiterated their breach of promise in regard to this matter. The Government also stated that it would reduce interest rates by two per cent in twelve months from the time of the last election. In fact, we know that interest rates fell by only one per cent and the possibility is that they may now increase. 
Certainly, there will be no reductions in interest rates in the near future. 
There was also the fundamental promise at the last election to reduce taxes. We all know what happened in respect of that promise. It lasted for a few months and then we had an increase in taxes. We are all paying now one and a half cents in the dollar in the form of a tax surcharge. When this Prime Minister says that economic recovery is now getting under way, gives us this basic promise again, we must have grave doubts about it. Indeed, we must have grave doubts about anything he says, particularly in respect of economic recovery. Government members, and the Prime Minister in particular, have been saying that economic recovery was under way ever since they have been in office. They have been telling us that economic recovery is about to get under way when, in fact, we have seen the economy sinking deeper and deeper into recession. It is real Alice in Wonderland stuff. 
Let me quote from the Budget Speech the then Treasurer, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  delivered in 1976 when he introduced his first Budget. He said on 17 August 1976: 
Recovery is now getting under way. The private sector is growing again and confidence is gradually returning. 
These are the same words we are hearing now from the Prime Minister today two and a half years later and it still has not happened. What reason do we have to believe that economic recovery is any more likely to occur now than it was after those words were spoken by the then Treasurer in 1976. Of course, to be fair to the then Treasurer I must point out that he placed one rider on those comments about recovery. He said: 
Restoring the economy is certain to be a protracted task. Before the election we said that it would take a full three year term. 
The Government has had a full three year term and more and we have not seen any economic recovery. In my view, we are not likely to see any in the near future either. The Government and the Prime Minister in particular have no credibility in this area. In view of their record, an appropriate approach to take to any promise or forecast they make is to believe it when you see it. That is the view that the Australian people should take to this Government on its past record. 
Another reason we cannot believe the Prime Minister and what he says today is that the facts do not support him. The facts and the indicators he has looked at simply do not support the attitude that he is now taking. Certainly there are some tentative, scattered, ambiguous signs of economic recovery. But overall, they do not amount to anything which justifies the kind of statements being made by the Prime Minister in respect of the certainty or guarantee of economic recovery. Retail sales are one indicator that the Prime Minister cited. He claimed that there had been a 4.4 per cent increase in retail sales in the month of December and that that was a sign of economic recovery. If we look at the figures for the December quarter and compare them to those for the September quarter, we see that there had been a real fall in retail sales. The Australian Government Statistician has warned that in respect of retail sales figures it is dangerous to take the figures for one month as an indicator. So there we have one indicator, a key one used by the Prime Minister, which is clearly mighty ambiguous, to put it at best. 
The Prime Minister claimed that housing and building approvals- private dwelling approvals- have increased substantially in the December quarter. They certainly have increased, but at the same time building commencements have fallen. The level of building approvals was the same as it was a year ago and below the level of two years ago. Building commencements in the December quarter fell by 3.7 per cent and were at their lowest level since mid- 1976. The Prime Minister says that private investment is growing strongly but today's statistics on new capital expenditure by private enterprise do not support that claim. They show that new capital expenditure in the first six months of 1979- that which is expected- will be 4.3 per cent below that of the last six months in money terms. In real terms, the increase will be greater. Where is this great evidence of confidence by private industry in respect of private investment expectations? It is just not there. 
The Prime Minister says that manufacturing employment has commenced to grow. But all he can point to is a rise of 9,200 positions or a 0.8 per cent increase in the number of persons employed in manufacturing industry between September and November. This is utterly insignificant compared to what has happened since he has been in office. Since the Government headed by the Prime Minister has been in office, between January 1976 and November 1978- the period for which the latest figures are availablethe total number of employed wage and salary earners has decreased by 2,700. In private enterprise, the figure has reduced 78,600 and in manufacturing it has decreased by 78,000. 
Therefore, the figures to which the Prime Minister points are extraordinarily insignificant compared to what has happened while his Government has been in office. 
The Prime Minister has stated that Australia 's external trade position is improving. But the comparison between the first seven months of 1978-79- the current financial year- and the same period last year shows that our external trading position has declined dramatically. Exports for the seven months to January 1979 were 8.9 per cent up on the same period for the previous year but imports were up 19.6 per cent. So the balance of trade fell alarmingly from a positive balance of $638m to only $4m in that one year. That has meant that we had almost a doubling of the deficit on current account in that period. How can the Prime Minister point to these figures in any way and say that they indicate some sort of improvement on external account. The improvement is just not there. 
The Prime Minister said that this figure is a positive indicator that inflation is falling, but there has not been any improvement on the inflation front for the past year. For the last four quarters the figures have been around 8 per cent, just above or just below. There has been no improvement and there is likely to be no improvement in the near future either because of the increase in food prices- a 2 per cent increase was announced today for the month of January- and the fact that this Government has stupidly and ridiculously locked Australia into a crude oil policy which prices all Australian produced oil at import parity. With import parity prices skyrocketing, with a 14 per cent increase guaranteed for this year and further increases almost certain because of what has happened in Iran, higher prices will feed into the Australian economy and be a mighty inflationary factor in the current calendar year. So inflation will not be something the Prime Minister will be able to point to as a positive factor either. 
Apart from all these figures, the Prime Minister ignored the unfavourable indicators. He did not talk about vehicle sales. In December 1978 they were 7 per cent below the December figure for 1977 despite the fact that the last Budget contained a cut in sales tax to stimulate sales of motor vehicles. That does not seem to be working. He totally ignored the September quarter national accounts, the last figures available, which showed that gross non-farm product fell by 0.1 per cent over the previous quarter. There has been a reduction in gross non-farm product; yet we are supposed to be getting a 4 per cent increase in output this financial year. On those figures it certainly will not happen. 
The Prime Minister ignored also factors now acting to retract economic growth. He totally ignored the fact that his policies will ensure that in the second half of this financial year things will be much less favourable than they were in the first half. The income tax surcharge is one of those factors. It is taking $560m off Australian taxpayers as from last November. That will diminish their purchasing power, reduce demand and make it less possible for us to get economic growth and economic recovery. Let me also mention the current tightening of credit. The money supply has been increasing faster than the Government budgeted for so the Government is now putting the squeeze on. We have had two calls to statutory reserve deposits in the past month and a half and the trading banks have been told that they have to tighten their lending to people because the Government wants to restrict the rate of increase in the money supply. 
Both the credit factors and the taxation policies are acting to reduce and contract demand and therefore, prevent any economic recovery from occurring in the near future. The Government will snuff out any chance of the economic recovery which may have occurred, to some degree, had such policies not been implemented. This Government has not been able to achieve economic recovery because of the whole policy stance it has adopted. The policy stance of this Government has been one which has been characterised by the term 'inflation first'; that is, we have to get inflation down first, grind the economy down with recessionary tactics, in the belief that that will bring about some spontaneous economic recovery. Well, will it? This has not happened overseas in countries such as Germany and Japan, where inflation has been reduced to 2 or 3 per cent. There the governments had to act to stimulate the economy by increasing public expenditure. It is not likely to happen here either. 
What is happening is that we are paying enormous prices for the reduction in inflation. There has been a 230,000 increase in unemployment for a reduction in inflation of 4 per cent- from 12 per cent in the last 12 months of the Labor Government to 8 per cent in the last 12 months of this Government. That is what has occurred as a result of the Government's policies. If the Government persists with that policy approach then presumably another 250,000 people will be put out of work in the next couple of years to reduce inflation by another 4 per cent. But we must ask ourselves whether these sorts of policies are the appropriate policies. Of course, they are not. Most Australians would overwhelmingly reject them now. They can see how hopeless and bad they are. They can see that they give no prospect of economic recovery, as the polls show. They are not likely to give economic recovery while the Government refuses to stimulate the economy. 
Policies which are designed to stimulate the economy but which are not inflationary are available to the Government. They are the ones advocated by the current Opposition. The policies we have advocated involve stimulating the economy through increased government expenditure to some degree and reductions in taxation. Those policies would also enable us to reduce inflation, particularly by cutting indirect taxes, which through the wage indexation system, would have a further round of deflationary effects. These kinds of policies are the kinds of policies which this Government should be adopting. If it did, it could achieve economic recovery. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
1 ) Is the National Income Forecast report which was quoted by him during Question Time on 28 September 1978 (Hansard, page 1491) a report based on forecasts made by a Treasury or a Reserve Bank macroeconomic model. 
If so, what assumptions were used in making the estimates quoted by him. 
What rates of- (a) economic growth; (b) consumption, and; (c) investment growth were predicted by the model. 
What were the reasons for the inaccuracy of the unemployment forecasts. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, concerns his statement to Parliament last week in which he claimed that the money supply is under control. I ask: How does the Prime Minister justify that assertion when the money supply has increased by 1 1 per cent in the year to January 1979, which rate of growth is well in excess of the target rate of 6 per cent to 8 per cent? Is it not the case that, contrary to the Prime Minister's assertion, the Government is having great difficulty controlling the money supply and that it has already abandoned the target rate of growth for this year? 
-The Bill currently before the House represents a further attempt by the Government to block off an incredibly extensive network of tax avoidance which poses a grave threat to the equity of the entire taxation system and to Government revenue. Accordingly, the Opposition does not oppose this legislation. This Bill gives effect to previous statements by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the first dating from 19 April last year, a full 10 months ago, announcing measures to block off tax avoidance schemes involving the pre-payment of interest and rent, trust stripping and trust income derived from overseas. The first of these schemes, that involving pre-payment of interest and rent, aims at securing a tax deduction for a supposedly deductible business expense which, in fact, has been created in a highly artificial manner. For instance, a taxpayer enters a scheme whereby he obtains a loan of $1,000 from an accomplice in the scheme and immediately repays $700 as a pre-payment of interest on the loan. He then buys back the loan for $370 and has obtained a $700 tax deduction for a net outlay of $70, which was the fee to the accomplice in the scheme. Schemes involving the pre-payment of rent operate in a similar way. To overcome these schemes, the Bill will either disallow tax deductions for this type of outgoing or limit the deduction for any year to so much of the total amount as could reasonably be expected to be paid in that year. 
Opposition is concerned that, although the Treasurer acknowledged in his second reading speech that variations of these schemes had been uncovered since his original Press statement, he has not acted to include those variations in this legislation. Instead, he proposes to introduce even more legislation during this session to deal with the new schemes. This seems to be a further example of the Government's largely ineffective and ad hoc approach to this serious problem. By acting in this way the Treasurer is unnecessarily using up more of Parliament's valuable time and giving the tax avoidance industry even more time to find new ways around the amendment. 
The second scheme dealt with in this Bill involves trust stripping transactions. Division 6 of the Income Tax Assessment Act taxes trusts according to the principle that the beneficiaries of a trust are liable for tax on any of the trust income to which they are entitled, and if there is any part of the trust income to which no beneficiary is entitled, or if a beneficiary is under a legal disability, then the trustee is liable for tax on that income.Trust stripping schemes aim to remove tax liability from both the trustee and the beneficiary. The schemes rely on imposing a nominal non-taxable beneficiary, such as a charity or a loss company, between the trustee and the true beneficiary. This nominal beneficiary receives the income from the trust and, in exchange for a participation fee, passes it on to the intended beneficiary in a tax free form such as a collapsable loan' which is a loan that is not intended to be repaid. 
To overcome these schemes the legislation looks for the existence of some sort of reimbursement agreement whereby the nominal beneficiary receives a share of trust income in exchange for the provision of money, loans or any other benefit in return. In these circumstances the amount of trust income involved will be treated as if there is no beneficiary entitled to receive it and will be taxed to the trustee at the maximum rate of  6VA  per cent. This type of scheme highlights a fact which the Opposition views with considerable alarm, and that is the increasing use of charitable organisations in tax avoidance schemes. It is appalling that these institutions should allow their tax exempt status to be used as vehicles for such schemes. The Treasurer has several times acknowledged that charities are allowing themselves to be used in this way and warned them against it. If these warnings are to be effective they must be backed up by strict action against any such group that abuses its tax exempt status by participating in these artificial and immoral schemes. 
The third part of this Bill deals with the foreign source income of trusts. At present a trustee is not taxable on any accrued trust income which originates overseas. This is due to a High Court decision in the Union Fidelity case of 1969. Once again, the learned judges in the High Court acted to frustrate Parliament's intentions in tax legislation and put their stamp of approval on the loss of a considerable amount of revenue. The non-taxability of foreign source income is due primarily to confusion over the residence of a trust. To overcome this problem, the legislation defines a 'resident trust' so that a trust can be treated in the same way as a 'resident taxpayer' and can be assessed on both foreign and Australian source income. Measures are included to ensure that beneficiaries are also taxed on both overseas and local income, that non-residents are only taxed on Australian income and that double taxation is avoided. However, these particular measures are stillborn. This is due totally to the Government's unwillingness to introduce a foreign tax credit scheme for the taxing of foreign source income, despite the fact that it originally announced that it intended to introduce such a scheme. 
Under sub-section 23 (9) of the Income Tax Assessment Act any foreign source income received by an Australian resident is exempt from Australian tax if it has been taxed at all, even at one per cent, overseas. So to overcome the proposed amendment a trustee merely has to arrange to have foreign income channelled through a company set up in a tax haven country where it will be taxed at low rates and then remitted to Australia exempt from further tax. Therefore, this amendment will be no more than a minor irritant to determined tax avoiders. The need for a foreign tax credit system was referred to by the Treasurer in his original statement on 8 June last year when he proposed this amendment. Now he conveniently ignores the consequences of not having that system. By capitulating to powerful business interests which lobbied against the tax credit proposal, which is certainly what happened, the Treasurer ensured that this proposed amendment would be ineffective and that a substantial area of tax avoidance could not be closed off. 
The Opposition recognises the inequities and revenue losses which result from these types of tax avoidance schemes and it acknowledges the necessity for appropriate amendments to overcome them. However, whilst supporting the Government's amendments, the Opposition doubts that they will have more than a superficial impact on the tax avoidance industry. Indeed, the industry is openly claiming that it has already defeated the amendments on foreign trust income and will probably soon be able to by-pass the other amendments. That is how effective these amendments are. Indeed, that is the story of most of the Government's efforts to date to stop tax avoidance. No sooner is one scheme stopped when another takes its place. In our view, it is time that the Government made a concerted and effective attack on tax avoidance. As we have stressed in earlier debates on this subject, such a concerted attack must involve action in various areas which are currently not being utilised. Section 260 of the Act, the annihilation provision, on the face of it, declares tax avoidance schemes to be illegal but it has been interpreted in such a way by the High Court as to be meaningless. Surely it must be rewritten in an attempt to draw it in such a way that the High Court will have to uphold it and find tax avoidance schemes to be illegal. 
Retrospectivity is another measure which we have advocated as a means which could be used to devastate the tax avoidance industry. Certainly, from our understanding of people in that industry, there is no doubt that this is something which they greatly fear. At the moment all we have is that the Treasurer announced a scheme on a certain day, apparently as soon as he found out that this scheme was causing loss of revenue, then at some later date he introduced legislation to block off the scheme which was causing the loss of revenue and he backdated the legislation to the date of his announcement. We have said that there is absolutely no reason why that retrospectivity of legislation should go back not just to the date of announcement but, indeed, to the beginning of the financial year involved. That seems to us to be an utterly defensible action for the Government to take. It does not involve drastic retrospectivity; it involves simply going back to the beginning of the financial year in which the income is being earned, on which tax is to be paid or avoided. 
The third measure which we have mentioned previously as being important for the Government to undertake in this area is for it to ban the advertising of tax avoidance schemes. I repeat, this is something which ought to be done. Lately the papers are full of whole page advertisements by various people claiming to have tax avoidance schemes. These advertisements encourage people to get into the tax avoidance business. All these schemes are highly artificial. On the face of it, they should be banned under section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. But, as I mentioned, that section is inoperative. So people are encouraged to get involved in these artificial schemes and the whole industry gathers impetus because of the advertisements which the Government continues to allow. It seems to us that it would be possible to ban the advertising of such tax avoidance schemes. That ought to be done. 
However, . even if these measures were adopted, one major method of tax avoidance would still be available unless further action was taken to eliminate it. I refer to the use of trusts as a tax avoidance device. The fact is that, despite the provisions in this Bill in regard to trusts and despite earlier legislation aimed at reducing the effectiveness of trusts in tax avoidance, trusts remain a major means of avoiding personal and company tax. Trusts have long been a means of avoiding estate duty, but that will soon be unimportant following the cessation of estate duty as from the middle of this year. Substantial evidence of the increasing use of trusts for tax avoidance is available. I refer firstly to some statistics which show a rapid increase in the use of trusts. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows statistics for partnerships, trusts and taxable companies over recent years, which was taken from the taxation statistics of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197903010_35_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This table shows that between 1973-74 and 1975-76- unfortunately, that is the latest financial year for which statistics are available- the number of partnerships increased by 5.5 per cent, the number of taxable companies declined by 8.3 per cent, but the number of trusts increased by 16.9 per cent. So certainly the number of trusts increased at a much faster rate than did partnerships or companies. In regard to the net income of partnerships, trusts and companies, we find that for companies taxable income increased by 18.8 per cent in that 2-year period; for partnerships the taxable income increased by 15.4 per cent; but for trusts the increase in income in that 2-year period was 83.1 per cent. So not only was  there a substantial increase in the number of trusts, particularly compared with partnerships and companies being formed at that time, but also when one looks at the income being channelled through trusts one sees that there was an absolute explosion of such income in that 2-year period. There is very good reason to presume that that trend has continued and that, in fact, the pace might even have quickened since 1975-76. 
As evidence I refer honourable members to a memo which has come into my hands. It is a Treasury memo, headed 'Income Tax: Tax Avoidance by the use of Inter- Vivos Trusts'. It is numbered J/78/239 Pt. 1 and is dated 3 November 1977. This memo, as its heading indicates, addresses itself to the whole issue of tax avoidance through the use of trusts. The first paragraph states: 
This submission reviews the effectiveness of antiavoidance legislation as a means of preventing the alienation of income through the creation of inter-vivos trusts. The review has been divided into four main parts. Firstly, the most effective tax minimisation devices and tax-avoidance schemes utilising Division 6 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, 1 936 are identified. Particular regard is paid in this part to recent memoranda received from the various Deputy Commissioners. 
That is, the Deputy Commissioners of Taxation in the various States. The memo continues: 
The second part of this review outlines the taxation proposals contained in the 1977 Budget which have subsequently been embodied in the - 
The memo then mentions various Bills. It continues: 
Thirdly, an analysis of the effect of the 1977 amendments on the viability of inter-vivos trusts as a tax-minimisation device is attempted. And finally, bearing in mind the hypothosised effect of the 1 977 amendments, this submission identifies areas in which further legislative action will be required and recommends legislative amendments most likely to combat such tax avoidance schemes. 
The memo then goes on to refer to comments made by the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in Melbourne and the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in Adelaide. Paragraph 3 of the memo states: 
The  Deputy  Commissioner in Adelaide in a memorandum dated 3 August 1977 . . . drew attention to the growing practice of the use of Unit trusts and family settlements carrying on trading businesses. The  Deputy  Commissioner noted that a feature common to these arrangements is that the trustee is a limited liability company and produced evidence which suggests that the registration of these 'nominee companies ' is increasing at an alarming rate. 
Paragraph 4 states: 
The Deputy Commissioner in Melbourne in a memorandum dated 14 July 1977 . . . listed three areas in which the creation of inter-vivos trusts were causing concern. The first was the acquisition of existing businesses by newly created inter-vivos trusts, the same area causing most concern in Adelaide. The second relates to the establishment of Charitable Trusts under Deed to provide funds for overseas public charitable purposes. 
Further on, in paragraph 5 the memo states: 
The third area causing concern in Melbourne is illustrated by the creation of 1 , 000 trusts under Codicils to wills- 
The memo then mentions a particular case. It then refers to the types of trusts used for tax avoidance purposes, about which I will say more later. Having done that, the memo goes on, in paragraph 8, to state: 
Having identified some of the types of schemes, it will be helpful to list the main reasons for the proliferation of discretionary inter-vivos trusts: 
'The introduction of the general concessional rebate', to quote the Deputy Commissioner in Melbourne, 7 January 1977 . . ., 'has given a real impetus to taxpayers in both small and large businesses, with or without asset backing, to create trading trusts . . . ' 
The flat50c in the $ rate under s. 99a is not regarded as a penal rate when compared with either individual rates of tax on substantial incomes or company primary tax plus individual tax on dividends. 
I interpolate that that point has now been covered. The memo continues: 
Accumulations in trusts can be distributed free of tax. 
Avoidance of company tax instalments. 
v) Estate planning advantages and various other advantages not related to taxation law. 
Income splitting devices enable a high income earner to have his children or wife assessed on part of that income at much lower rates of taxation in accordance with the progressive tax system. 
Those are the reasons that those Deputy Commissioners of Taxation see for the formation of so many trusts. Clearly, almost all of them relate to tax avoidance. The memo then goes on with two very important paragraphs. Paragraph 9 states: 
The proliferation of the use of inter-vivos trusts for the purposes of tax avoidance prompted the Deputy Commissioner in Melbourne to say in his memorandum dated 7 January 1977, 
The inability to deal with the problem of tax avoidance through the agency of trusts under the existing taxation laws is causing considerable concern in this office. The trust arrangements being entered into at an ever increasing rate are considered to be a negation of the intention of the law and completely nullify any equity as between individual taxpayers, particularly in regard to businessmen and salary and wage earners'. 
Then the memorandum continues in paragraph 10: 
The Deputy Commissioner's observation of the proliferation of trading trusts is, of course, consistent with the information being obtained from other States and warrants immediate legislative action being taken.If the use of trading trusts continues to proliferate, it is inevitable that salary and wage earners will have to bear the burden of meeting theloss of revenue from partnership and private company sources. The effects of such a redistribution of the taxation burden  would be extremely far-reaching in terms of overall consumption demand, would provide a disincentive to the salary and wage earner to earn higher wages, and, most importantly, would give the entrepreneur and businessman an unfair and inequitable tax advantage over the salary and wage earner. 
Those are two tremendously important paragraphs. Both the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in Melbourne, in his memo of January 1977, and the Treasury memo in November 1 977 say explicitly and clearly that while we continue to allow trusts, particularly trading trusts, to be used as a major tax avoidance device, an enormous inequity will be created in the tax system and wage and salary earners will be carrying a much larger share of the burden than would otherwise be the case. That is, of course, something about which we on this side of the House feel very strongly and about which we suggest the Government also should feel strongly. The fact that it has taken very little action in this area, acting only on the periphery rather than at the heart of the problem, means that it is not acting in a way which is being indicated to it by the  Deputy  Commissioners of Taxation and by the Treasury itself that it should act. 
I will give some further evidence of the importance of what is being said there. If we look at what has happened to the amount of income tax revenue from pay-as-you-earn taxpayers, who are wage and salary earners, and from nonpayasyouearn taxpayers over the last two years we can see how the burden is shifting continuously onto wage and salary earners. In 1976-77 PA YE tax revenue was $8, 529m. It increased by 2 1 per cent over the next two years to $ 10,341m, which is the estimated figure for 1978-79. But for nonPAYE taxation the increase that is expected over that two-year period is 2.9 per cent. So the point that is being made in that Treasury memo is borne out by the statistics which are in front of us, that is, that the whole tax burden is being shifted inexorably over to wage and salary earners because of the failure of the Government to lop off the means of tax avoidance for nonPAYE taxpayers. This is something that is scandalous and about which there needs to be much greater community awareness and concern. Wage and salary earners generally should demand of this Government that it take the action necessary to stop this continuation of their bearing a higher portion of the tax burden and to restore equity in the tax system by making nonPAYE taxpayers pay their fair share of the tax. 
The way in which trusts can be used to avoid tax is something to which I would like to refer very briefly. One way is simply by income splitting, by diverting one's income through trusts towards children. There are great tax advantages to be had by distributing trust income in that way. As the law currently stands, any income of a child beneficiary up to a total of $16,608 is taxed at 33V4 per cent and at only 47V4 per cent up to $33,216. If the father is taxed at the maximum marginal rate of 6 1 te per cent, he can still save a lot of tax by putting his income through a trust for distribution to his children who then pay tax at a much lower rate. In this way he avoids substantial amounts of tax. Of course, the interesting point is that the parents can still utilise that income, perhaps to some degree by normal parental control over the financial affairs of their children but, if that is too blatant, the Australian Taxation Office can then demand that higher tax be paid. But there is a more sophisticated way around that. The children may lend the money back to the trusts- that is, another collapsible loan; one not intended for repayment- which increases the capital of the trusts. The parents can then demand repayment of their loan from the trust capital and such supposed repayments are then tax free. So the parents have channelled income to the children who have paid tax at a much lower rate and then the money comes back to the parents through the supposed repayments of the loan. In this way previously taxable income from an asset can be converted into nontaxable capital receipts, and nothing has been done to stop that. 
Trading trusts, as I have mentioned, are responsible for the greatest loss of tax revenue through the avoidance of company tax. The manner in which this occurs is that a profitable business or family income is sold to a unit trust which has been set up to operate the business and receive all income. The beneficiaries are usually the shareholders of the former company or the owner and his wife and children. Generally a $2 company will be set up as a trustee with the previous owners as directors so that they will maintain control of the business. The beneficiaries receive the distributed profits of the business and are taxed at personal income tax rates. In this way normal company tax on company profits, that is, 46 per cent, is totally avoided. Of course, that makes trading trusts enormously attractive to businessmen who wish to avoid the payment of company tax, which presumably is most of them. 
Service trusts have become a popular means of reducing tax liabilities by the alienation of professional income. In some cases a unit trust can be set up to take over a professional business which has previously been conducted as a partnership. The previous partners are then employed by the trust which runs the business and pays the profits to the discretionary family trusts of the partners. However, many professional practices cannot be run in this way because the ethics of the particular profession do not allow businesses to be conducted by a trust. In such cases the Commissioner of Taxation would disallow the use of trusts to reduce tax. However, to get around that problem many professional persons set up a service trust to carry on the non-professional activities of their practice. In one particular case the scheme involved a large firm of chartered accountants transferring the firms clerical and secretarial activities and staff to a unit trust which then provided the services back to the firm at commercial rates. The firm's office furniture and equipment was also transferred to the trust and leased back to the firm. The firm obtained tax deductions under section 5 1 through payment to the trust for these services. The trust then declared dividends out of the profits from providing the services and paid them to its unit holders who were the partners' families or family companies. This scheme was upheld by the Federal Court last year. Quite clearly that is a very convenient way in which professions can bring about a great avoidance of income tax. 
To be fair, the Government has taken some action in regard to trusts, but it has fiddled around only at the edges of the problem despite the clear advice from the Australian Taxation Office and the Treasury that they are major and proliferating means of tax avoidance. For instance, section 99A of the Income Tax Assessment Act applies a penalty rate of tax to income accumulated in a trust where no beneficiary is presently entitled to a share of that trust income. This system was designed to prevent tax avoidance through trusts but left loopholes in that the penalty rate was only 50 per cent rather than the maximum rate of personal income tax of 6 1 te per cent, as it is now, and deceased estates were excluded from its coverage. Both these loopholes have been covered by amendments in recent years. 
Similarly, under section 98 and section 99 taxation of trustees in respect of income for a beneficiary under 16 years of age has been increased somewhat, so reducing the scope for income splitting to some degree but by no means eliminating the advantages of income splitting. For high income people there is still a very great advantage to be obtained in channelling income to their children rather than earning it directly themselves and having to pay the maximum marginal rate of tax on it. The present legislation to overcome trust splitting schemes and nontaxability of foreign source income of trusts are further examples of the Government's dealing with the problem at the periphery, and fairly innocuously at that, rather than tackling the whole problem head on. 
The basic reason for the ineffectiveness of the present Act to prevent tax avoidance through trusts is the acceptance by the law that income splitting of profits and investment income is a permissible activity. So long as the law does not challenge that, trusts will be a major means of tax avoidance. I will come back to that later if there is time. Even within that basic assumption of the law there are grave deficiencies in the existing Act regarding provisions which are meant to limit or restrict the degree of income splitting that is feasible. In section 102 of Division 6 there was thought to be a major deterrent to tax avoidance through income splitting by providing for penalty tax to be paid where income is payable for the benefit of unmarried children under 21 from a trust created by the children's parents. The penalty was an additional tax to raise the tax on that income to what it would have had it been added to the parents' taxable income. This section has been largely ineffective for two reasons. Firstly, the High Court ruled in 1 957 that section 102 did not apply if a child was only contingently entitled to income from the trust, that is, if property was settled on the trust for an infant subject to his attaining, say, the age of 25 or marrying before that age. Any income accumulated in the trust in this case would not be taxable under section 102. Of course, trusts are now structured to get around that problem and to get around this section which was supposed to overcome tax avoidance in this way. 
Also in 1970 the High Court in what is known as Truesdale's Case also ruled that the section had no application if the trust is created by someone other than the parent or the child beneficiary. This would rule out the application of section 102 in the usual case- very much the usual case now- where a settler creates the trust with a nominal amount and the parent then transfers assets to the trust for the benefit of his own children. Of course, that is the way all trusts are created now. The section is utterly ineffective and a similar situation applies to section 99A. 
What could the Government be doing about trusts? What it could be doing is paying more attention to what its advisers are saying. The following statement is made on page 7 of the Treasury memo, under the heading  Recommendations ': 
It is submitted that two distinct sets of legislative amendments are required in order to achieve more equitable taxation treatment under Division 6. The first is that more 'cosmetic' changes are required, along the lines of those introduced in the 1977 Budget . . . 
And cosmetics are what we are about in this Bill before the House. The memo also stated: 
The second rejects one of the basic assumptions upon which taxation liability under Division 6 is based- the acceptance of income-splitting by distributing profits to relatives whose services (if any) and/or capital or property contributions are not commensurate with the remuneration or share of profits received. 
In other words, one should tackle trusts and the whole trusts problem head on. The memo goes on to recommend eight proposals through which this could be done. Only two of the eight recommendations in this Treasury memo have been given effect to and they are the most innocuous of those recommendations. The recommendations of Asprey have not been carried out. They are the recommendations which are also endorsed in this memo. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware that both sets of official unemployment figures understate the real level of unemployment, due to the fact that persons who withdraw completely from the work force when unable to find a job are not counted as unemployed? In this connection has the Minister's attention been drawn to the Australian Bureau of Statistics May 1977 survey of persons not in the work force which showed that 210,000 such people wanted a job but had given up hope of getting one and, having dropped out of the work force, were not counted as unemployed? Will the Minister acknowledge that, even if there has been no growth in the number of these hidden unemployed since this survey- despite the continued rise in official unemployment figures- the real level of unemployment is now over 660,000 or ten per cent of the work force? 
-The Opposition raises this matter of public importance because it is greatly concerned at the Government's actions in regard to taxation since it has been in office. Those actions have brought about a severe redistribution of the tax burden from high income earners to low and middle income earners. Furthermore, it is clear from recent statements by Government spokesmen that the Government will continue and accentuate this trend towards increased inequity in the distribution of the tax burden. Let us look at the past actions of this Government in respect of taxation and the effect that this has had on the equity of the tax burden. In regard to tax indexation, this Government came into office saying that it would implement full tax indexation. It has never implemented full tax indexation. In 1976-77 the figure was 90 per cent of full tax indexation. In 1977-78 it was 80 per cent of full tax indexation. In 1978-79 it was only 35 per cent of full tax indexation. There was clearly in this period a total failure to implement the policy of full tax indexation. To be utterly fair, in respect of the 35 per cent, the reason given was that the Government was introducing income tax cuts. 
It is certainly true that those income tax cuts were introduced, but they were introduced in a way which was extraordinarily inequitable in their incidence. The tax cuts meant that persons on ordinary wages and salaries received very little benefit, while those on high incomes received very substantial benefits indeed. For a person on average weekly earnings the gain from those tax cuts which came in during February 1978 was $3.30 a week. For a person earning $2,000 a week the gain was $111.80 a week. There was a tremendous difference, depending on where one was on the income scale. Forty per cent of the benefit of those tax cuts went to the top 10 per cent of taxpayers. So tax cuts were heavily loaded towards the high income earners and gave very little to ordinary taxpayers in this community. 
But those tax cuts, which had featured so much in the 1977 election, did not last very long anyway. They were quickly wiped out for many taxpayers as from November 1978 by the introduction of a tax surcharge of 1c in the $1 which, as I say, totally eliminated the benefits of the tax cuts for 55 per cent of taxpayers. All those with incomes between $1 14 a week and $238 a week had all the benefits of the tax cuts wiped out by the income tax surcharge which all Australians are currently paying. But high income earners retained most of their large tax cuts. A person earning $2,000 a week received this marvellous tax cut of $1 1 1.80 a week. From the tax cuts he had a tax surcharge of only $49.50, leaving him $62.30 better off as a result of this total package of the tax cut and the imposition of the surcharge. So quite clearly as a result of this combined tax cut and surcharge there was no benefit for the vast majority of taxpayers but a very substantial benefit for high income earners. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in its third quarter 1978 edition of the  Australian Economic Review  summarised this situation in these terms: 
Taken together, the income tax changes announced in the last two Budgets constitute a remarkable exercise in redistribution of tax burdens. 
That is indeed the situation. There has been a tremendous redistribution of the burden to give a much lesser burden to high income earners and an increased burden to large numbers of wage and salary earners. As well as the income tax cuts and surcharge, there were also indirect tax increases which severely affected the equity of the tax system because everyone in the community whether he is a millionaire or a pauper pays the same amount for a litre of petrol, a packet of cigarettes or a glass of beer. If governments raise taxes by large increases in indirect taxes then that is inequitable because it destroys the equity of the tax system. It destroys income distribution unless it offsets income distribution by some other measures. Honourable members will recall that this Government, in its last Budget, introduced very large increases in taxes on alcohol and tobacco products and on crude oil which fed through into petrol prices. All Australians are paying these increases regardless of their incomes. People on the minimum wage, pensioners, people on low incomes are paying the same amount as members of Parliament and even more affluent people in the community. At the time of the last Budget we calculated that for the ordinary person the increase in the price of petrol would cost $1.80 a week on average and cigarettes, tobacco and alcoholic drinks would cost something like another $2 a week which, on top of the loss through the income tax surcharge, meant a very severe reduction in the living standards of a large number of Australians. But of course for people on high incomes the incidence of the impact of this increase in indirect taxes on their Jiving standards is nowhere near as severe as it is for low income earners. 
Also, we have the failure of this Government to act in relation to trusts. This matter has been the subject of some discussion recently in the House. So I do not need to mention it in any detail. But it is important again to point out in this context that the Government's failure to act in relation to trusts other than in a peripheral way means that the equity of the tax system is being destroyed. Indeed, as I have mentioned in the House previously, the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in Melbourne made that very comment in a letter to the Australian Taxation Office when he said that the failure to act effectively against family trusts was destroying the equity of the tax system as between the incidence of taxes on businessmen and that paid by wage and salary earners. The wage and salary earners cannot avoid the payment of tax by using family trusts whereas businessmen have that capability if the Government allows them so to do. 
If one looks at what has happened to the payasyouearn tax payments over the last couple of years and the tax paid by the nonpayasyouearn taxpayers one sees a tremendous difference in the increase in the tax burden. Between 1976-77 and 1978-79 the pay-as-you-earn taxpayers are budgeted to pay an additional 2 1 per cent in taxes to the Federal Government. Nonpayasyouearn taxpayers will pay only an additional 3 per cent over that period. Quite clearly one can see that the non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers- that is the professional people and the businessmen- are using some device to escape the payment of income tax and, on the evidence, that device overwhelmingly is the use of family trusts, service trusts and trading trusts. This Government is failing to take the action required in respect of trusts, despite the fact that it has been recommended by the Taxation Office and the Asprey Committee. The failure to act against family trusts in this way destroys this Government's credibility as a government which is really concerned to eliminate tax avoidance and so increase the equity of the tax system. 
Another factor in the past actions of this Government which is important is the abolition of estate and gift duties. The House will recall that the Government introduced legislation last year to abolish all federal estate and gift duties by the middle of this year. Estate duty was paid by only 12 per cent of estates. So it did not affect more than one in eight of the total number of estates. Only the wealthy were paying estate duty and they were able to avoid much of it. But it was not affecting the vast number of estates in this country. Only one in every eight was taxed in that way. Yet this Government abolished that tax and in abolishing it it clearly has no intention to replace it with any other tax on capital. The approach that the Labor Party took at the time that was done was to say that the Government, by abolishing this tax on capital, was leaving Australia as the only country in the Western world without any taxes on capital and was taking an extremely inequitable decision. This Government has again reduced the equity in the tax system by abolishing all taxes on capital. 
I say again that Australia will be the only country in the Western world which will not be levying a tax on capital as from the middle of this year- that is, apart from the vestiges of probate which will be levied by some of the States. I ask the House to take note of the fact that a number of countries levy not only estate duties or inheritance taxes, which can be combined and called capital transfer taxes, but also wealth taxes and capital gains taxes. These countries levy all three: Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland. Many countries levy at least two of those- that is, estate duty and a capital gains tax. They include the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and France. Canada levies only one, a capital gains tax. New Zealand levies estate duty. But Australia will levy none from the middle of this year. The fact is, as the Asprey Committee showed, that it is totally inequitable to have no taxes on capital. Surely if the Government removes estate duty it should then introduce some other form of tax on capital. The Labor Party has suggested the introduction of a capital gains tax. That was put forward recently by me and by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  This Government is totally opposed to the concept of there being any taxes on capital. It wants the wage and salary earners to pay all the taxes. It does not want the people who earn the capital gains or who own the wealth of this country to pay any tax because of their ownership of that wealth. This Government wants to levy all the taxes on the wage and salary earners. We say that is totally inequitable and that we need to have taxes on capital, such as a capital gains tax, so as to have an equitable tax system. 
It is also a fact that this Government will need to raise substantial additional amounts of tax revenue in the next financial year. This will be necessary for two reasons. Firstly, the fact is that the deficit for 1978-79- the current year- is blowing out. It is not going to be reduced by $500m, as the Government has estimated. Indeed, in an article in the Melbourne  Age  yesterday the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is reported to have admitted that the Budget deficit is blowing out. On top of that problem, which means that the Government will not be reducing the deficit by much at all, if anything, from last year's figure, it has made various promises to abolish various taxes in the next financial year. It has promised to abolish the coal expert levy, which is worth $93m. It has promised to reduce the crude oil levy by the amount by which it will allow Australian producers of crude oil to increase the proportion of Australian crude oil which is priced at import parity. That would cost $110m. It has promised full indexation of personal taxes next year. That was promised in the 1977 Budget. That would cost $500m. It did promise initially to eliminate the income tax surcharge. That would cost $570m. The elimination of death duties, to which I have referred, will cost $50m. This Government promised in the 1976 Budget to implement full stock valuation adjustment over three years, and that three years is up as from the next financial year. That will cost another $350m if the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Government keep their word. 
This Government will have to find very substantial amounts of additional revenue from somewhere else because it will be forgoing all of this revenue if it sticks to its promises. It may not stick to its promises. Indeed, it is quite likely on this Government's past record that it will not stick to its promises. This is particularly true in respect of the income tax surcharge. The Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have on numerous occasions failed to give the House or the country an assurance that there will be no income tax surcharge next financial year. I challenge the Treasurer to say in his reply to me in this debate that there will be no income tax surcharge next financial year. Do not just give us the line about the income tax surcharge legislation running out on 30 June. We all know about that. What we want to know is whether the Government will reimpose it next year. On all the facts of the situation, given the promises that have been made, given the fact that the deficit has blown out and given the fact that this Government will not apply alternative, fairer and more equitable taxes, I say that this Government will have to reimpose such a tax in terms of its own economic logic, and that means that it will be again imposing additional tax burdens on the wage and salary earners- the vast bulk of taxpayers who cannot avoid taxes and about whom this Government does not seem to have much worry. 
The fact is that the Government has forgone the possibility of introducing a capital gains tax. It opposes the idea of introducing a resources rent tax, which would be utterly fair- that is, taxing the super profits of mining companies. The Government opposes the idea of introducing a petroleum revenue tax to take away from the petroleum producing companies the enormous profits which the Government's crude oil pricing policy will give to them over the next several years. The Government refuses to take measures in respect of tax avoidance on family trusts, which would increase equity in the tax system. It refuses to impose higher taxes on high income earners who could afford it given the extraordinarily generous treatment that they have received vis-a-vis the other taxpayers over the last couple of years. The fact is that this Government is a government that will increasingly impose the burden of tax on the ordinary wage and salary earners because it refuses to think of alternative taxes and refuses to think of fairer and more equitable taxes which would enable it to meet its revenue raising objectives without destroying the equity of the tax system. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) For what reasons was the distribution of the Ministerial Document Service reduced. 
What criteria are now used for determining who may and who may not receive the Service. 
3 ) What sum will be saved from the reduced distribution. 
Is this policy consistent with the Government's commitment to open Government. 
-The socalled ministerial statement which we are now debating typifies this Government's approach to the economy. What happened was that last Thursday at some time after 5 o'clock the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  rushed into the House and delivered a statement off the cuff. He had no written notes. He delivered an abusive statement in which he threatened the State of New South Wales with financial repercussions for having the audacity to do what other States have done- to introduce a 3714-hour week for its Electricity Commission employees. This typifies the seatofthepants, ill-considered, threatening approach this Government has to economic policy. Firstly, what was done was not trend setting. As other speakers on this side of the House have already stated, various other areas of government employment, federally and State, have granted weekly hours of work less than 40, 3716 or even 
Of course a similar situation applies even in some areas of private enterprise. In a very similar area- the Electricity Trust of South Australia- a 3716-hour week has been operating since the middle of last year without any adverse economic repercussions. The South Australian  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Hudson,  was reported in the  Australian  newspaper of yesterday, as saying: 
The fact is we in South Australia were able to give our power workers the reduced working week at virtually no extra cost to the community while maintaining among the lowest electricity unit costs in Australia. 
The reason South Australia was able to do that was because of the productivity agreement with the unions in which the unions promised there would be a reduction in work bans or an improvement in working methods which would enable productivity to be improved and there would therefore be no increase in labour costs per hour of work. A similar situation is applying in New South Wales where there has been, as has been said by previous speakers on this side, an agreement by the unions to change work practices in respect of maintenance work and shifts thereby enabling the New South Wales Government to provide a more efficient electricity service. That is the quid pro quo, which it is said will enable the Government to save many millions of dollars. It will mean that there will be no increase in unit costs of production as a result of a reduction in working hours. What is wrong with that? If there is no increase in unit costs what is the problem? 
Honourable members opposite seem to be railing about some tremendous increase in costs. There has been no increase in costs in South Australia and there will be no increase in costs in New South Wales. What was done was not against the wage indexation principles. Those principles specifically encompass this kind of happening. We should understand that that is the situation. It is not as though the union and the State Government were breaching the indexation guidelines. What they were doing was totally within the wage indexation guidelines. Those guidelines were reconsidered last year by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission after lengthy discussions amongst the parties at the wage indexation inquiry which went on for many months. After the inquiry reported back to the Full Bench of the Commission there was a very extensive hearing in which the whole of the wage indexation principles were reconsidered, with almost half of the Arbitration Commission judges and commissioners on that bench. They came down with a set of principles which specifically endorses and encompasses the idea of productivity agreement. Let me read from the  Australian Industrial Law Review  of 27 September 1978 which summarises that judgment. On page 424 under the heading 'Productivity bargaining ' it reads: 
The Full Bench set the parameters for productivity bargaining as follows: 'So far the concept has had a fairly narrow application to hours of work at establishment level and has been dealt with by the Commission only when change was an agreed objective of the employer and employees and where the exercise was undertaken on a joint and co-operative basis, subject to the criteria of negligible cost and maintenance of standards of performance. 
In our opinion this constitutes the proper ambit in which proceedings of this nature should be considered. 
The Arbitration Commission is saying that if the parties can come together and agree on a procedure by which there is a reduction in working hours and the quid pro quo is an arrangement which involves negligible costs- those are the key words in that quote which I have given to the House- then that is okay. The Commission approves of that kind of procedure, and why not? If there is no increase in costs to the consumer then why should not that procedure apply? It is specifically within the wage indexation principles and nothing that honourable members opposite can say can take away from that fact. 
Of course the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who should be expected to know these things and probably does, never mentioned that in his address here today. He talked about the way the Commonwealth Government had argued against productivity bargaining as being an allowable procedure, but the Government was overruled by the Commission. I point out that it was overruled by a bench consisting of almost half of the members of the Arbitration Commission. The Full Bench overruled the Commonwealth Government and said that there should be productivity bargaining provided it proceeds along proper lines, but the Minister for Industrial Relations has conveniently forgot to mention that. 
The Minister said that productivity should not be distributed in this way. He said that if there is any productivity improvement to distribute it should be by way of reduced prices or improved services. There are two points to make about that. Firstly, if he means this as a general proposition is he really saying that the real wages should never increase or the working conditions of workers should never improve in real terms? Does he say that their hours should never come down and their real wages should never go up? If he says that productivity improvement should be distributed only in terms of reduced prices or increased quality of product is he saying that there should never be an increase of real conditions of employment for all wage and salary earners? What an absurd and ridiculous proposition. I am amazed to hear a Minister who generally has some common sense put up such a ridiculous proposition to the Australian people and to this House. 
In this case productivity improvement would not have occurred if there had not been this incentive of reduced hours. It is not as though productivity improvement was there. The only way to get productivity improvement was to offer the reduced hours. It was as though this productivity improvement was available for a reduction in the price of electricity services or whatever. It was not there until the offer was made on reduced working hours. So the point of the Minister about the distribution of productivity improvement just does not make any sense at all. 
The Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  both threatened to penalise the State of New South Wales and that involves- I stress this- a serious breach of promise to another government. It is not something that one does just off the cuff. This Government which has a great record of broken promises to the Australian people- an unprecedented reputation in that regard- is now surpassing that by starting to breach promises that it has made to other governments. That is what is involved in the threats made last week by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister- ill-considered and ill-thought out threats. Let me just quote what the Treasurer had to say last week in this four-paragraph socalled ministerial statement which is more like ministerial rankings. He said: 
In particular, I make it quite clear that there is no way that this Government will go on supporting a guaranteed formula for general revenue payments or tax sharing which enables a State to receive an automatic adjustment for cost increases which result from that State 's irresponsible decisions. 
That was the Treasurer's irresponsible and illthought out threat. That threat involves breaching the first stage of Fraser federalism. That first stage involves the Commonwealth introducing general revenue grants to the States as a percentage of personal income, tax revenue rather than on the previous formula which applied. As a back-up to that new procedure for the sharing of personal income tax receipts there was a guarantee that revenues would not be less than provided under the formula for the guarantee of such grants under the Labor Government. It is just as well that that guarantee was provided because it has been needed every year that it has been able to be applied since 1976-77. 1 refer to Budget Paper No. 7 which deals with payments to or for the states for 1978-79. This details the new arrangements. Under the heading 'Personal Income Tax Sharing Between the Commonwealth and State Governments: Points of Understanding' item No. 11 reads: 
There will be a 'guarantee' arrangement to ensure that the States ' Stage 1 entitlements in any year are not less, in absolute terms, than in the previous year. This arrangement will be supplemented in the first four years of the new scheme ... by a further undertaking that the entitlements will not be less in a year than the amount which would have been yielded in that year by the financial assistance grants formula as laid down in the  States Grants Act  1973. 
That is the specific understanding. That is the guarantee. That is the promise that was made. It is this guarantee and this undertaking about which this Government is now saying: 'To hell with that. We gave that a few years ago. What does that matter? We will just breach that guarantee now. We do not care about broken promises, broken agreements and broken understandings'. There were no qualifications whatsoever to that guarantee. There is nothing in the agreement which says that a State government has to abide by a certain industrial relations policy or whatever. This was a specific, unqualified guarantee. It is that unqualified guarantee which this Government is now seeking to break. It is this unqualified guarantee which is incorporated in the legislation of this Parliament in the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act of 1976. If the Government is going to break this agreement, as it has threatened to do, it will have to change that legislation. So honourable members opposite will all have to stand up here and be counted on just how much they can be trusted in the future when they make promises to governments because they will have to vote here to break promises to other governments. 
The threat of the Treasurer and the Prime Minister is also based on a false understanding of the guarantee formula. The Treasurer said that the Government would not go on supporting a guarantee formula which enables a State to receive an automatic adjustment for cost increases resulting from that State's decisions. I read that section previously from the so-called ministerial statement. The guarantee does not do that. The formula was on the basis of the preceding year's grant for each State being adjusted for increases in three factors. The base rate- that is the previous year's grant to the State- is increased by three factors. They are: The percentage increase in population for that State, an increase in average wages per person employed in Australianot in a particular State, in Australia- and a betterment factor of three per cent. Those three items made up the adjustment formula which applied to the State grants in the previous years under the Labor Government. It is that formula, continued, which provides the guarantee under the current arrangements for the sharing of income tax revenue. I emphasise that the wages factor in the formula is not on a State basis at all; it is for all of Australia. 
The reduction in wages does not increase average wages per person employed. The Bureau of Statistics confirmed that yesterday to the New South Wales Government. It said that reduced hours could increase average wages only if overtime were increased. The very point of the productivity agreement is that there will not need to be an increase in the working of overtime. The idea is that productivity will increase to make up for the reduced working hours of the employees. Even if there were an increase in overtime it would have a minuscule effect on average wages per person employed in Australia. If there were some small increase in overtime for the Electricity Commission workers in New South Wales, the whole 6,000 of them,- I say that will not happen but if it did- what effect would it have on average wages per person employed in Australia? One would not be able to measure it to a fraction of a cent. Yet the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have ranted in this House and outside about how they will not allow the States to increase costs and then have the money automatically recouped under some Federal Government formula for taxation reimbursement. That just would not occur. They just do not understand their own formula. It is incredible that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister are so ignorant of this facet of their own policy about which they have been so proud and boastful in the past. They simply have not understood the way in which the so-called new federalism operates. 
The Treasurer admitted that the Government will not continue with the guarantee in respect of New South Wales. It is an admission of failure of the new federalism policy which I mentioned previously this guarantee is irrelevant. If the new revenue sharing arrangements for personal income tax are working all right and proving better than the previous arrangements there is no need for the guarantee. The guarantee is necessary only if the new arrangements do not provide more than under the old formula. In all previous years the formula has not provided as much as the old formula which operated under the Labor Government. The so-called new federalism has been a farce in the past and on the Treasurer's admission it will continue to be so. He is saying that the Government will not continue this guarantee in the near future. There would be no need for the guarantee if the new arrangements were worth while. Obviously the Treasurer thinks that they are not going to produce more revenue for the States than the old arrangements that operated under the Labor Government. 
These actions totally contradict the Government's arguments that the centre point of its new federalism is increased State independence. Honourable members were told that the new federalism meant that the Federal Government gave the States money and did not tell them what to do with it. We were not told that federalism was all about giving the States more independence. Where is that independence now? When a State undertook legitimate and reasonable action within the wage indexation principles this Government came in here browbeating, thumping and threatening to break the agreement which it made with the State governments in the past. 
My question to the Treasurer concerns the latest statistics on the volume of money which show that, for the 12 months to February 1979, in seasonally-adjusted terms, M3 increased by 15 per cent and Ml by 12 per cent; and for the last 3 months Ml grew at an annual rate of 26 per cent. I ask: As these rates of increase are far in excess of the Budget target rate of growth for the money supply- 6 to 8 per cent- will the Treasurer advise the House whether he has simply lost control of the money supply or there has been a major change of government policy in this respect? Will the Treasurer also advise the House whether he still believes- as he has said in the past- that a reducing rate of increase in the money supply is fundamental to the fight against inflation and, if so, what the implications are for inflation of current money supply developments? Most importantly, will he tell us whether he intends taking action to reduce the money supply rate of growth to somewhere near the Budget target rate and, if so, whether he acknowledges that this will entail a credit squeeze and increased interest rates? 
I second the motion,  Mr Speaker.  The motion which the Opposition has moved reads as follows: 
That this House deplores and condemns the wilful misrepresentation of the Prime Minister on tax matters as part of an obvious tactic designed to conceal the fact that the Government will have to increase direct personal tax and indirect tax as well as substantially reducing existing benefits to the community in order to fund a $ 1,000m revenue shortfall arising because of firm commitments by the Prime Minister already announced to the electorate to be funded in the forthcoming Budget. 
The first point to be made in respect of this matter is that the motion specifically points to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is not in the chamber and who is apparently squibbing this debate. I think that is a particularly important point. The Opposition has not raised this matter lightly. We have raised it because the Prime Minister- the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  also but the Prime Minister in particular because of the particular opportunity he is afforded during Question Time- has, time after time, sought to misrepresent the situation in regard to taxation. We are sick and tired of his misrepresentation of the realities in regard to income tax and taxation generally. We have raised this issue specifically so that he can stand up in this chamber, if he has the courage and the guts to do so, and defend the matter in debate rather than just using the particular advantage he has at Question Time. But apparently he is refusing to take up the challenge. He will leave it to his Treasurer while he skulks in his office. Well so be it. That is the sort of Prime Minister we have. 
-I rephrase it, sir, to say while he sits in his office. 
-The fact is that the Prime Minister is particularly sensitive on this issue of taxation because he came into government posing as a Prime Minister who would provide a low tax system for the people of Australia. He continually spoke about the way in which this Government would be a low tax government- small government, low taxes. This was something that would be tremendously attractive. We all recall that during the 1977 elections the major focus of the Government's election policy was that it would bring in substantial income tax cuts. The reality is that this Government has, since that time, had to reverse substantially its original ideas in regard to taxation and break its fundamental pledge made to the Australian people in respect of income tax at the 1977 elections. It has had to substantially increase income taxes through the income tax surcharge and also through various increases in direct taxation. The result of this is that the Australian people are far less well off than the Prime Minister promised they would be. 
The reason that the Government has had to break its promises in this way is simply because its economy policies in general have failed. They have failed, in particular, in respect of stimulating the economy. As a result of that, the Budget deficit has continued to blow out. The Government has been unable to reduce the Budget deficit in the three years that it has been in office. Therefore it has had to resort to breaking its pledges on taxation in an attempt to do that. The irony of the situation is that by increasing taxes in this way the Government has further recessed the economy and therefore locked itself into a downward spiral which involves a continual resort to higher taxation, continual blow outs of Budget deficits and higher levels of unemployment. I remind the House about this matter of the deficit. Today the Prime Minister said that there were large deficits under the Labor Government. In the three years the Labor Government was in office total deficits amounted to $6.4 billion. That might sound like a lot of money but in the three years of the Fraser Government, total deficits amount to $8.9 billion. So where is this big cut in the Government's Budget deficit which we were promised in 1975? Where are the horrors of large deficits about which we heard when Labor was in government? They have been much larger under this Government. Of course the Government is embarrassed by that situation as I have mentioned. Therefore it has had to resort to increasing taxation in the way that I have already described. 
Now, those increases in taxation have also been made on a very inequitable basis. Not only have the increases made taxpayers generally less well off than the Fraser Government promised the people they would be, but also they have been done in such a-way that people on ordinary incomes- ordinary wage and salary earnershave received no benefit from the income tax cuts which were promised in 1977 and introduced in February 1978. But people on high incomes have received substantial benefits. With the introduction of the income tax surcharge 40 per cent of the benefit went to the top 10 per cent of taxpayers. Those top 10 per cent are still much better off, whereas 55 per cent of taxpayers lost everything they gained out of those income tax cuts. The whole process has been done in a totally inequitable way as well as being a fundamental breach of a promise made to the Australian people. Of course it is not just something that is in the past. 
What the Prime Minister is concerned about is that this is something which is here now and which is facing him in the next Budget, because in this year, 1978-79, we find that the deficit is blowing out again. It is $70m higher than it was at this time last year despite the fact that we have been promised a Budget deficit of $500m less for this financial year. Therefore the Government clearly is faced again with a blowing out of the deficit to some order. The Government has immense problems in terms of what it will do in 1979-80 because on top of that situation it has made all sorts of promises as was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition in respect of the various tax concessions that it will make in 1979-80. Those are very important. It has promised to abolish the coal export levy, death and gift duties and to reduce the incidence of the crude oil levy. All of this will cost $230m. 
Three years ago the Government promised full stock valuation adjustments over a threeyear period. That matter comes up in 1979-80 and will cost $300m unless the Government breaks its promise. The Government has promised full tax indexation in this coming financial year which will cost $400m. It has also, of course, promised that the income tax surcharge was only for a one year period. That amounts to a $570m loss if the Government does not go on with that surcharge. Now all that means that the Government has tremendous and very expensive promises to recoup to the Australian people. We frankly think that it will not be able to keep all those promises. The one that it is least likely to keep is the one relating to the income tax surcharge. 
We have challenged the Treasurer time and time again to say to the Australian people that an income tax surcharge would not be levied again in 1979-80. He has consistently refused to make that promise. Now I challenge him again. Will he say to the Australian people today that he will not renew the legislation for an income tax surcharge in the next financial year? I ask the Treasurer not to say that the legislation runs out at the end of this year. Will he tell us what he intends to do about the matter for the next financial year? That is the important issue. If he is not going to renew that income tax surcharge, then can he tell us what other taxes he will put up in order to bring the Budget deficit down? This morning's Press reports that the Department of Finance estimates the Budget deficit at something like $4 billion for 1979-80. Clearly it has taken into account these various taxation promises of the Government. Therefore the Government will have a much higher deficit than it will have this year, unless it again resorts to increases in taxation. So the fact of the matter is that the Government has not been a low tax government at all. Its ecomonic policies have locked it into a situation in which it has had to resort to continual increases in taxes to try to keep the Budget deficit within some sort of proportion. Therefore the Government is extremely sensitive about the situation. 
The Prime Minister keeps distorting the realities of what has been done. It is simply absurd to keep arguing, as he does, that the Australian people have been saved $3,000m by the introduction of tax indexation by this Government. 
He says that if we had the Hayden tax scales for 1975, if there were no tax indexation on them and if there were current incomes, then $3, 000m more of income tax would be levied. That is absolutely an absurd and ridiculous argument. Firstly, although tax indexation did not apply when the Labor Government was in office, on two or three occasions substantial changes in the tax schedule resulted in this reduction in the impact of taxation. There was not a formal indexation system but there were substantial changes in the tax schedules to reduce the incidence of income tax. Secondly, since that time it has become Labor Party policy to have tax indexation. I have referred the Treasurer to this policy before but he continually ignores it. I repeat that the Labor Party policy - 
-Oh, will the honourable member please be quiet. 
-The Labor Party policy as adopted at the Perth Conference in June 1977, under the heading of 'Taxation', states:   . . adjust the personal income tax schedule and tax rebates for changes in the Consumer Price Index. 
Now, it is ridiculous to assert that there would have been no changes to the income tax schedule. They occurred when we were last in office and we now have a policy which formally accepts the system of adjustment of the tax system for changes in consumer prices. So, I ask honourable members not to keep on with this nonsense, this ridiculous and entirely misleading argument- fraudulent argument almost- that a Labor Government would have raised $3, 000m more in taxes if it had remained in government. That is utterly ridiculous and cannot be substantiated. Of course, the Prime Minister does not just do it on this broad scale. He tries to do it on a personal scale as well. We heard him again argue today, as he has argued before, that under the Labor Party taxes would be $15 a week higher for a person on an average income with a wife and two children than would be the case under the present tax system. Now that is just a ridiculous argument because again it ignores the fact that there would have been adjustment of the tax scales. 
-Do not just say, oh. The fact of it is that that is our policy and it would have happened. 
It was our policy to adjust the tax scales. 
As I mentioned, it was our policy to adjust the tax scales periodically. That has now been formalised. There would have been adjustment of the tax scales. I remind the House that the tax indexation introduced by this Government, has been anything but full tax indexation. Last year it was 33 per cent. It was 90 per cent in the first year and 80 per cent in the second. In three years we have got nowhere near full tax indexation. If we had had tax indexation under the Hayden tax scales to that degree in the last three years people would still be better off. A person on $220 a week would be $3.00 a week better off under the Hayden tax scales than under the tax indexation that is applying at present. If full tax indexation had applied that person would be even better off, The whole assertion of the Government in this respect hinges on the point that there would be no adjustment of the Hayden tax scales. That is an absurd and ridiculous argument. 
One further point to make is that this Government, being locked into a situation of having to increase taxes, has done so, as I mentioned previously, in an inequitable way. That inequity is exposed not only by the fact that the Government resorts to increasing income tax in an inequitable way but also because it refuses to look at alternative means of raising taxes. Ways are available- we have pointed to them- to raise tax revenue in a way which would lower the burden on the Australian people generally. It would put the burden where the capacity really resides. A resources tax, for instance, would tax the windfall and super profits of mining companies which such companies can well afford to pay and would reduce the burden on the Australian taxpayer. There should be some form of taxation of capital in this country. It is highly inequitable and unfair on taxpayers generally to allow those who earn their income from the ownership of capital and through the buying and selling of capital to avoid taxation on that income. 
Most countries in the Western world have a capital gains tax. The fact that such a tax does not apply in this country is a massive inequity and increases the burden on the ordinary Australian taxpayer. The fact that this Government, despite introducing various measures to reduce tax avoidance, refuses to crack down on family trusts, for instance, is also another indication of the way in which the Government refuses to pursue a tax policy which would be equitable and fair. As its own taxation officers pointed out, refusal to crack down on family trusts as tax avoidance measures means that a substantial inequity is allowed to remain in the tax system. The Prime Minister has been massively distorting the truth in respect of taxation. It is a pity that he will not come into the House and debate the matter. It is highly objectionable when the Leader of the Opposition moves a motion condemning the Prime Minister for his misrepresentations that the Prime Minister leaves his defence to the Treasurer and has not the courage to defend his own actions. 
-by leave-Mr  Speaker,  this was a tremendously important conference. I am indeed grateful that I was able to attend. The only problem I had was that we were selected at such short notice that we had only a few days in which to get ready and acquaint ourselves with the very fundamental and important issues which were at stake. In my view, the issues raised were of tremendous importance to the future of the world. They were enormously important to the Third World for the reasons given already by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I just reiterate some of those reasons. One is the Third World poverty, with 750 million people in abject poverty at present and with forecasts of up to 1.7 billion people in abject poverty by the end of the century. International distribution of income is becoming more unequal. Unemployment is already up to 300 million people in the Third World countries with the need to find another 700 million jobs between now and the end of the century just to stop that unemployment level becoming higher. The debt problem of non or less developed countries is becoming enormously high at 27 per cent of export income. On the part of the developed countries, official development assistance, instead of increasing towards the 0.7 per cent objective to which they have all dedicated themselves, has declined to 0.3 1 per cent at present. 
This matter is enormously important to Australia, too, because of humanitarian considerations, because of the future stability of the world and because it raises questions, as it does for all developed countries, as to how we can best help. Whatever we do will involve some sacrifice and economic adjustment with regard to trade or aid or both. It is important to us because the current developments are placing great pressure on our manufacturing industry and employment capacity. What the Third World countries want is a new international economic order. There was only one spokesman for the Third World at this conference, the Pakistani Ambassador to France, Ambassador Akhund.  His  speech was dedicated substantially to supporting the need for a new international economic order. Just what that means is somewhat general and intangible, but certain things are clear. Firstly, it means they want to redress the current unfair balance of economic power between the Third World countries and developed countries and they see such measures as the Common Fund and commodity agreements as being basic in this regard. They want to become much more developed and industrialised and to achieve this objective they need the assistance of developed countries by way of increased development assistance and lower barriers to their exports. 
What has been happening in the last decade or two is that in the absence of acceptance by the developed countries of the new international economic order, Third World countries have had to accept what aid they could obtain. With declining official development assistance they have had to turn to private capital for development, that is, to trans-national corporations, and hence the development of what have become known as export platforms' in various Third World countries. Small segments of the country, or in the case of a small country such as Singapore or Hong Kong virtually the whole of the country, become free trade areas for multi-national companies to operate in and to provide some growth and employment for that country. Many countries in the South East Asian area are in this category and are known as 'newly industrialising countries' or 'NICS'. It seems to me that this is not a good pattern of development to follow, particularly for all less developed countries, firstly because the benefits of growth in many of them do not percolate through to the mass of the population. This, indeed, was part of Ambassador Akhund 's address. Secondly, such a pattern puts great pressure on manufacturing industry and employment in developed countries, especially those such as Australia, which do not benefit from the off-setting export to those countries of high technology and capital goods. Of course, many of the countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development are benefiting at present through exporting such capital items to those countries. We are not in that category. 
The failure of Third World countries to transform their domestic economies to make them more productive, because of political unwillingness to upset established ownership and production systems, means that these countries are not very capable of taking each other's exports. Hence exports which are developed in these export platforms are concentrated in intent on developed countries' markets. In a time of recession, in particular, this means inevitable recourse to increased protection. In these circumstances it seems to me, as a result of consideration of these matters, that we should do at least the following: Firstly, we must join the few developed countries which are providing 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product as official development assistance as soon as possible and urge all other developed countries to do the same. It is to the lasting disgrace of the developed countries, including Australia, that the reverse is happening at present. Secondly, there should be an attempt to persuade Third World countries that the only certain way to increase development is by the transformation and strengthening of their own economies so that they can feed themselves, eliminate poverty and unemployment and get on to a growth path. Thirdly, we should support United Nations' initiatives to place international controls on the activities of trans-national corporations to prevent exploitation of Third World people. Fourthly, we should accept that we must to some extent accommodate Third World industrial development objectives by restructuring our economy to enable us to import some of the products of their development without causing increased unemployment in our own country. I thank the House. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
1 ) What leevel of investment is expected in mining and energy projects during the period 1978-79 to 1980-81. 
What quantity of funds is expected to be available for these projects from each of the domestic sources of capital. 
What level of funds is expected to be required from overseas. 
-by leave-The Opposition welcomes this statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for the light that it throws on some aspects of tax avoidance in this country. The revelation that some $700m of tax revenue has been saved by some of the action taken by this Government in respect of tax avoidance is important knowledge for this Parliament and for the people of Australia to have because it starts to throw more specific light on the enormous extent of tax avoidance in this country and the extent to which it is a major problem for governments- indeed, for all of us who are paying taxes and are not capable of taking advantage of tax avoidance schemes, and who are therefore bearing a heavier brunt of tax than would otherwise be the case. 
In welcoming this statement by the Treasurer, I take issue with a couple of points. The Treasurer's claim that no government has been as active in closing tax avoidance loopholes as his government is certainly true, as it stands. I make two points about that statement. Firstly, the Labor Government, between 1972 and 1975, was not totally inactive in this area, as the Treasurer seems to have implied on a couple of occasions. At least, I have inferred that from his remarks. The fact is that, for instance, in 1 973 the Labor Government took major action against eliminating Norfolk Island as a tax haven. That action was well overdue and in large measure, it certainly stopped the exploitation of that area, although there have been some recent announcements which make it seem as though there may be again some tax avoidance occurring in respect of Norfolk Island. At that time it was certainly a major initiative in preventing tax avoidance occurring there. Also, the Labor Government acted in respect of previous year losses. Of course, it announced the intention to legislate against the Curran scheme although that legislation did not eventuate before the Government went out of office. It was almost a year later that it did go out of office but I remind the Treasurer and the House that on many occasions under the present Government there has been quite a long period between an announcement made by the Treasurer of an intention to legislate and that legislation coming forward. The fact that the Labor Government did not introduce the legislation against the Curran scheme in 1975 was not an unique occurrence, given what has followed. 
The second point I make about the Treasurer's claim is that it is a little like the Government of today announcing to the world that it has done more to legislate against drug abuse than any previous government in the history of this country. If it were to make that announcement, there would be the universal reaction that, of course, that is because the problem is much more acute now than it was under previous governments. I do not blame the Government for that but I do say that the analogy is a fairly relevant one. The reason why this Government has been forced to be so active in respect of tax avoidance is simply that tax avoidance has become much more rife since it has been in office. 
For substantiation of that point, I refer to an article by  Mr B.  H. Pascoe,  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia, in  The Chartered Accountant in Australia,  December 1978. On page 10 of the publication, he states: 
During the past year or two - 
This is written in December of 1 978:  tax avoidance became a big business in Australia. It became a disease which, being allowed to go unchecked, reached epidemic proportions. It is, perhaps, not going too far to say that the tax paying community of Australia almost went mad in its rush to become a party to a tax avoidance scheme. 
On the same page, he continues: 
During an excessively long period, until April 7 this year - 
That is, 1978: 
. there was complete silence from Canberra which, in the minds of some people, indicated a son of tacit approval for such activities. 
The major point I wish to make from that quotation is that here we have the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia saying that tax avoidance became big business in Australia during the period of the Fraser government in the year or two prior to December 1978, which was when he wrote the article. That claim shows up when one looks at the figures for taxes paid by pay-as-you-earn taxpayers as compared with those paid by non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers. Of course, it is the latter group who are able to take advantage of tax avoidance schemes. As I have mentioned, in the period 1976-77 to 1978-79, the projected income tax payments for payasyouearn taxpayers will increase by some 2 1 per cent and, for non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers, they will increase by only 3 per cent. There may be all sorts of reasons for some variation in the rate of increase in the incomes of those two groups, although one would not have thought that there would have been a significantly lesser rate of increase in income for non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers- that is, businessmen- than there would have been for wage and salary earners who are essentially pay-as-you-earn taxpayers. The fact that there is such a vast difference would seem to indicate that schemes are operating and methods are available which enable nonpayasyouearn taxpayers substantially to avoid tax despite all the action which this Government has taken. 
I make the further point that, despite all the amendments, the Government has failed to act against various known tax avoidance devices. I wish to mention three. For instance, internal superannuation schemes are a system which has been mentioned in various places as a blatant tax avoidance device. In the  Small Business Newsletter  of April 1978, there is an article entitled 'Internal Super Funds'. It begins: 
Internally managed superannuation funds are a particularly attractive means of reducing or eliminating company tax. 
The article goes on to explain how the scheme works and where one can have such a scheme installed for a cost of some $200, plus $8 per member of the superannuation fund. I am sure that those matters are known to the Taxation 
Office but no action has been taken against such schemes by this Government. 
In respect of foreign source income, last year the Treasurer announced that it was the intention of the Government to legislate to prevent the use of foreign tax havens; that is, companies, in particular, syphoning their income through places such as Hong Kong, the New Hebrides, Bermuda, Guernsey or other places so that they could have their income taxed at much lower rates than Australian company tax rates; when the income comes back to Australia, as the law still stands, it is not subject to any further tax. The Treasurer announced that that income would be subject to further tax to bring total tax on that income up to the equivalent of Australian company tax. But, under substantial pressure from businesses in Australia, the Treasurer backed off and decided not to go ahead with the closure of that tax avoidance device. To indicate the extent of income tax which is being avoided in this way, I refer briefly to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 19 July 1978, headed Change Hits Foreign Tax Havens'. This article was written at the time the Treasurer announced his intention to legislate, but he did not go ahead with that legislation. The article stated in its first paragraph: 
About one-quarter of a sample of 1 20 top Australian listed companies have subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong or other tax havens. 
The article went on to list various companies which have channelled income profit through Hong Kong and other places. Further on, the article stated: 
Australian accountants in Hong Kong have generally confirmed with Chanticleer - 
That is, the writer of the article- that the use of devices to divert profits to Hong Kong is rife. 
The article went on to mention various companies, such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Comalco organisation, the Pioneer concrete organisation and Burns Philp and Co. Ltd, all of which made over $lm in company profits in Hong Kong in the year to which the article referred. The article provided various other amounts for that tax haven of Hong Kong and others. The fact that the Government backed off means that it knowingly backed off closing an important tax avoidance loophole. Therefore, the Government is not doing all that it could do to close off tax avoidance. 
Probably a far more important area than the two I have mentioned already is the area of trusts. As I have mentioned previously, inter vivos trusts in respect of trading trusts, service trusts and family trusts, are tremendously important as a means of tax avoidance in this country. Although the Government has taken some action to reduce the effect of the use of trusts as a tax avoidance device, the fact remains that it has operated only on the periphery of those devices and has not legislated with any real intent to reduce or to eliminate those devices as a means of tax avoidance. 
The  National Times,  in an article of 19 August 1978, pointed out that, on an income of $40,000 a year a man with a wife and three children would pay tax amounting to $16,000.80 if his business were owned by him. But if it were owned through a family trust, he would be able to allocate the income to all members of his family and reduce the tax payable to only $6,800. That gives honourable members an idea of the enormous amount of tax which can be avoided through income splitting via a family trust. The Government has not legislated effectively in this area. As I have mentioned previously, a memorandum from within the Taxation Office pointed out the enormous inequities which were being created by this failure to legislate. The memo described as cosmetic action which had been taken and said that what was happening was destroying equity within the tax system and was putting a much greater burden of taxation on the shoulders of wage and salary earners. The fact is that, although this Government has done a lot about tax avoidance, it had to do it because the threat to revenue was enormous. Since this Government has been in office tax avoidance has become a booming business and the Government has blatantly failed to legislate in respect of tax avoidance in very important areas. 
The measures proposed by the Treasurer in respect of setting up an advisory committee meet with our approval. It is true that the establishment of such a committee was recommended by the Asprey Taxation Review Committee. It is a pity that the Treasurer has not implemented other recommendations made by the Asprey Committee; for instance, its recommendation in relation to family trusts. The Asprey Committee recommended all sorts of measures which could be taken, by which family trusts could be eliminated as a means of tax avoidance. But that recommendation of the Asprey Committee has not been adopted. However, the establishment of an advisory committee to assist the Treasurer in providing tax avoidance legislation which does not disrupt commercial transactions any more than is absolutely necessary is a sensible policy and we support it. 
Finally, the Treasurer indicated in his statement that the Government is still working on trying to establish a workable section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which is the annihilation provision of that Act which, on the face of it, would seem to provide that all tax avoidance activity was illegal. But it has been interpreted by the High Court in such a way as to be virtually useless. We strongly support any measures which the Government can take to rewrite section 260. We have advocated such action in the past and we hope that the Government will be able to produce a workable provision in the very near future. 
-The reality in respect of the Victorian Government is far different from what the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  would have us believe. The fact is that what  Mr Hamer  has made happen has not been spectacular economic growth in Victoria but rather maladministration, scandalous administration, unemployment and relatively poor economic performance compared with the other States. All States have been badly affected by the Fraser Government's economic policies, but on a comparative basis with other States, Victoria comes out very badly. For instance, in the last two years, from February 1977 to February 1979, registered unemployment in Victoria has increased by 46 per cent. In that period, unemployment in New South Wales increased by only 17 per cent. So there has been a 46 per cent increase in unemployment in Victoria and only a 17 per cent increase in New 
South Wales under its Labor administration. For the country as a whole, the increase in unemployment was 39 per cent, so Victoria was well above the average for the whole country. 
On the Bureau of Statistics figures a similar situation prevails. Victoria is up 44 per cent on unemployment while New South Wales is only up 14 per cent. The figure for Australia, as a whole, has increased by 36 per cent. On this comparative basis, unemployment in Victoria has been appalling in the last two years. Also in respect of employment, in the total civilian wage and salary earners in employment over the last two years- December 1976 to December 1978- in Victoria, there has been a reduction of 9,400, or 0.7 per cent. By comparison, in New South Wales, there has been an increase of 20,000. So, whilst  Mr Hamer  's administration has been losing 10,000 jobs, the New South Wales Government, under  Mr Wran,  has been gaining 20,000. That 20,000 accounts for almost the whole of the increase in Australia of 22,000, or half a per cent, in that period. 
Victoria's performance in this unemployment- employment area has been absolutely appalling. In the building industry- a very important area and one about which State governments can do a lot- building approvals ibr new dwellings in Victoria over the last two years have fallen by 29 per cent. The figure for Australia is down 1 5 per cent and, for New South Wales, there has been an increase of eight per cent. Over the last two years, the number of building commencements in Victoria has declined by 47 per cent. In New South Wales it has declined by 1 1 per cent and, for Australia, it is down 29 per cent. Again, Victoria has an appalling performance in this important area of the building industry. On overall performance, the Index of Economic Performance as published by the economic consultants company of Philips Shrapnel shows that Victoria's performance is much worse than that of New South Wales. That company publishes an index which covers building approvals, new car registrations, weekly bank debits, Commonwealth Employment Service vacancies, overtime and factory employment. 
This index shows that in the year to September 1978- the last figures available to me- the index for Australia increased by 4.2 per cent, by 8.0 per cent in New South Wales and by only 3.5 per cent in Victoria. Again, there is an abysmal performance by the State of Victoria. What are the reasons for this appalling economic performance by the Victorian Government? The State Government's actions have been an important factor in determining the appalling state of the building industry. The fact is that the Hamer administration has severely cut back on capital works and, therefore, it has had a very marked effect not only on the building industry but also on the building supplies industry which is, of course, very much in the private enterprise area. It covers a large part of the manufacturing industry. Public works expenditure was cut by eight per cent in real terms in the last Hamer Budget. In the last three years, there has been a cut of 26 per cent in real terms in capital works expenditure by the Hamer Government. Despite this, the Premier amazingly claimed in his last Budget speech that a major Budget objective was to maintain a maximum public works effort. In that Budget, the amount was cut by eight per cent, and that action followed severe real reductions in the previous two years. I would hate to see what he would do if he were not putting in a maximum effort. Also in that area the Victorian Government has squandered funds in respect of public housing. We know about the scandalous overpayments by the Housing Commission for land. Millions of dollars were handed over to land developers. That money should have been used for the building of houses. Instead, the money was handed over to land developers for reasons the Victorian administration would know best. It has certainly meant that many less houses have been built than would otherwise have been the case. Building activity has been less; there have been less jobs, and fewer houses are available to the public despite long waiting lists for public housing in that State. 
Another reason for Victoria's poor economic performance is the fact that there is a high percentage of labour intensive manufacturing industry in Victoria which has poor growth prospects. This is a point which has been made by the Premier's own department in a report to the Crawford Committee on Structural Adjustment. In the  Age  of 27 February 1979, an article entitled 'Grim decade ahead: Government report dooms industries' begins: 
A confidential State Government report predicts a gloomy future for manufacturing industry and employment in Victoria during the 1980s. 
The report says high concentrations of textile, clothing and footwear industries in the State could lower real incomes and produce difficult structural problems. 
Overall, the report says Victoria's manufacturing outlook will fall below the Australian average in the period 1980 to 1990. 
That report was produced by the Premier's Department. It is not an isolated prediction by some insignificant group. It was produced by the 
Premier's Department in Victoria; therefore, it is a very important finding. It is a finding which the Premier has repudiated; he has repudiated his own department's forecast An article in the Australian  Financial Review  of 28 February reports the Premier as having said, in rebutting the significance of the internal report:  the Premier,  Mr Hamer,  said that far from declining, the clothing, textile and footwear industries had great potential for outward growth. 
If  Mr Hamer  is basing the future of Victoria on the growth prospects of those industries, he is really selling Victoria down the drain as, of course, his own department is telling him. We are going to have trouble maintaining jobs in those industries. Already in the last two years, despite high protection, there has been further job loss in those industries. It is absurd for  Mr Hamer  to ignore that point, stick his head in the sand and say that those industries offer some economic salvation for Victoria. It is important that jobs are kept in those areas as much as possible but we have to look for growth prospects in other industries. Also, the Premier has acquiesed to the Fraser Government's recessionary policies. He has supported the inflation- first approach which has pushed Australia into much deeper levels of recession and which has created much more unemployment. He supported the cutting of Government expenditures, which means he will have less money to spend on Victoria. He has also supported the increases in the long term bond rate- an increase in the February conversion loan of 8.8 per cent to 9.0 per cent. Of course, that is a part of the process of taking us into higher interest rates, which are being held off by the Federal Government until after 5 May. We can be sure interest rates will rise throughout the country after that date. The increase has been held off in an attempt to save  Mr Hamer  at the coming State election. 
Importantly,  Mr Hamer  has totally failed to utilise the State's financial resources to maintain State Government expenditure on capital works. The comparison with New South Wales is particularly important. On taking office the New South Wales Labor Government found that, far from being efficient economic managers, the previous Liberal administration had been quite negligent and had wasted available resources. The Liberals simply had not used efficient money management. The fact is that the Wran Government found large under-used cash balances held by departments and statutory authorities. After carefully assessing the liquidity needs of these bodies, decisions were made about the extent of unnecessary precautionary balances. Those bodies which had high balances over long periods were allocated less in the next year's Budget and encouraged to maintain smaller balances. This released funds for use in much needed capital works, stimulating the New South Wales construction industry and reducing unemployment in that State. This is a major reason for the much better economic performance of New South Wales, compared with Victoria. 
After careful examination and consultation, the New South Wales Government found that there was prudent scope for the Government to draw upon the internal funds of these bodies to an amount of some $230m in 1977-78. There had been about half that amount used in the previous financial year and a similar amount has been used in the current financial year 1978-79. Through its own resources, the Wran Government has been able to find a tremendous amount of offsetting revenue to make up for the cutbacks by the Fraser Government to keep public works going in New South Wales. That is a major reason for the improved economic performance of that State. Victoria has the same capability. In Treasury balances, it has some $238m in short term securities at the present time. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works has $ 128m in short term securities. These funds and the funds of other statutory authorities can be used to some degree- as they have been in New South Wales, and would be used by a Labor administration- to buck up the economy of Victoria, to improve expenditure on capital works and to make Victoria a much more prosperous State. The fact is that what is most needed on 5 May is a vote to weed the Liberals out of the garden State. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
What action has been taken on the recommendations of the Commonwealth/State Working Party on Manpower Planning. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Australian Government participated in any discussion at the United Nations about introduction of a Code of Conduct for the operation of transnational corporations. 
If so, what progress has been made at these discussions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Governor of the Reserve Bank made any major statement in recent years of the same nature as public lectures which he gave in 1971 and 1972 about monetary policy and the approach of the Bank. 
If not, is there any reason for the apparent change in policy of Governors of the Bank giving these periodic lectures. 
Is there any reason why the Reserve Bank should not make a statement about its current approach to monetary policy, given that the Bank's annual report is written in a most general and concise form. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
For what reasons were 18 per cent of all applications for home savings grants received during 1977-78 outstanding at the end of the year. 
What was the total budgetary allocation for grants under the scheme during 1 977-78. 
Would funds budgeted during 1977-78 have been expected to be adequate to pay all approved grants if all applications received during 1977-78 had been processed by the end of the financial year. 
-The Bills now before the House are Appropriation Bills which supplement Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1978-79, which formed the Budget propositions that were debated in the first half of this financial year. The Bills now before the House largely provide for additional appropriations for wage increases, but there are significant variations to the expenditureonBudgetallocationswhichIwould like to draw to the attention of the House. I refer firstly to Appropriation Bill (No. 3). Under the appropriations for the Department of Administrative Services one can see that the allocation for visits abroad of Ministers has been increased by $300,000 or 37.5 per cent after a substantial increase on the previous year's allocation in the original Appropriation Bills. The appropriations for the Attorney-General 's Department provide for an increase in the allocation for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation of just under $900,000 or 7. 1 per cent. Altogether, there has been an increase of 35 per cent on the 1977-78 allocation for ASIO. In the appropriations for the Department of Defence one can see an item covering special purpose aircraft and associated initial equipment and stores. I understand that that relates to the purchase of VIP aircraft for which an allocation of $ 10.2 m has been made. Honourable members will recall that this is just the first step in the proposal to spend some $40m on the purchase of VIP aircraft. Under the appropriations for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet there is an item covering the conveyance of the Governor-General, Ministers of state and others. This again relates to the operating costs of VIP aircraft. The allocation has gone up by $422,000 or 26.4 per cent. 
I refer now to Appropriation Bill (No. 4). Under the appropriations for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs one finds that the National Aboriginal Conference has had its allocation cut by $323,000 or 64 per cent, which seems an extraordinary reduction. The appropriations for the Attorney-General's Department show a reduction in legal aid payments to the States of $3.5m or 50 per cent. With regard to the appropriations for the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, the amount allocated to the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice FullTime Training scheme has been reduced by $3.6m or 9.5 per cent. In the appropriations for the Department of Social Security there is provision for a reduction in grants to homeless persons organisations of $1.9m or 48.7 per cent. Grants to handicapped persons organisations have been cut by $4.5m or 8.6 per cent. The allocation for home care services has been reduced by $2m or 1 9.6 per cent. 
It seems that in those allocations which I have just mentioned there is a certain establishment of priorities which is not unfamiliar to us in regard to the expenditure priorities established by this Government in previous Appropriation Bills. Indeed, it is clear from these Bills that the Government's approach to the economy and to the Australian society is totally unchanged. I therefore move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
Whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House- 
condemns the Government's failure to adopt an economic strategy designed to reduce unemployment: 
deplores its failure to fulfil its promises to reduce inflation and interest rates, and notes with alarm that both are now increasing; 
rejects the Government's determination to place the blame for its economic failures on wage earners, trade unions and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and 
expresses its disgust at the Government's perverted and wasteful expenditure priorities as exemplified by its allocation of substantial funds in this Bill to indulge the travelling comfort of the Ministry whilst increasing the deprivation of the under-privileged '. 
I wish to devote most of my time in this debate to the economy. Doubtless, honourable members opposite will think that the amendment I have just moved is rather unfair in that it is very critical of the Government's handling of the economy. Some of them may feel that they have something to boast about because of some indication of economic recovery. Certainly not the least of the honourable members opposite who would think that there is something to boast about in respect of the economy is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who has been loudly proclaiming that economic recovery is with us and that it is all due to his policies. I shall quote a short paragraph from his speech to the meeting of the Federal Council of the Liberal Party of Australia in Perth on 22 April. He said: 
Confidence is much stronger than it has been for a very long time. This revival is not due to luck, not caused by accident. This recovery has come because we have taken the necessary decisions. 
In my submission that statement is sheer nonsense. There are some signs of improvement in production, employment and exports, but they are not due to this Government's policies. In our view the improvements are due to the economic stimulus of a big rise in rural incomes, which is in turn due to increased rural production and better prices on world markets. Farm incomes have been calculated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to go up by 90 per cent in real terms this financial year, which is a colossal and extraordinary increase. The figure for the December quarter of 1978 for gross farm product will be up by 52 per cent on the figure for the previous December quarter. 
The main reason for the extraordinary increase in the figure for the gross farm product and the increase in farm income is the enormous increase in the value of the wheat crop. According to BAE forecasts, the gross value of wheat production will rise from $940m in 1977-78 to $2,030m in 1978-79. The wheat crop itself will be a record 18.3 million tonnes, which will be 3.5 million tonnes above the previous record. This, of course, is due to higher yields because of favourable growing conditions. Also important to the rural revival is the gross value of cattle and calves slaughtered this year. According to the BAE 's forecast it will be double last year's figure. This in turn is due to an increase in the average price of cattle of some 1 10 per cent compared with last year, which in turn is due to increased export demand. In fact, actual slaughterings will fall somewhat, but this will help to raise the price. Overall, cattle producers will be doing far better. 
The rural boom has nothing to do with the Government's policies, unless the Prime Minister is now taking credit for the weather, which would not be too surprising. Insofar as there has been a recovery that recovery shows the correctness of the Opposition's approach which is that if there is a stimulus to the economy by way of increased demand we can start to get an increase in production and we can start to get an increase in employment opportunities. In this case that increase in demand has come about not through any government policy but through an increase in demand stemming from the much increased incomes of the rural sector. Increases in the gross farm product mean increases in the gross nonfarm product as that income is spent and increased demand permeates the whole Australian economy. The recovery is due, in our view, to the facts that I have mentioned but we must also put that improvement in perspective. The economy is still very recessed. The index of economic activity up to February 1979 of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd still shows that the economy is way below its trend level and is very much in recession. The Australian and New Zealand index to factory production shows that the index has now returned to the levels of 1974, the levels of five years ago. It has certainly gone up in the last few months but it is now at the level that it reached five months previously. 
In regard to employment we see that in seasonally adjusted terms it has increased in the last six months but it is still very low. The total number of the employed wage and salary earners in January 1979 is only 0.4 per cent above the number for the previous year. The number of employed wage and salary earners in private employment in January 1979 is only 2,000 above the number in January 1978 and 48,000 below the number in January 1977. There is still a tremendous way to go in respect of employment. Indeed, if we look at the total number of persons employed- not just wage and salary earners but all persons in the work force- we find that in January 1 979 the number was 9,000 less than in February 1976, soon after this Government took office. Clearly there is a tremendous amount of leeway to make up on the employment front and it is reflected in the unemployment figures. 
The number registered for the unemployment benefit for March was 38,000 or 9 per cent above the level of March 1978, with the total unemployed still near 450,000. We must bear in mind that a survey conducted by the Bureau of Statistics has shown that the number of non-recorded unemployed is in the order of 200,000. 
I remind the House of a survey taken in May 1977 which showed that there were 2 10,000 persons who were not in the work force but who wanted a job. They had just given up hope of getting a job and had, therefore, retired from the work force and were not being counted amongst the unemployed. Clearly the economy is still in a state of acute recession. There is a need for a prolonged period of strong recovery before we can pull out of that recession. It is not likely that that will happen. In our view it is not likely because recovery will be choked off by various factors; firstly, by a very contractionary Budget which appears certain for the year 1979-80; secondly, by rising interest rates and tighter credit; thirdly, by rising inflation; and fourthly, by the incompatibility of the wages policy of this Government with economic recovery. 
Let me refer to the factors which, in our view, are certain to prevent the recurrence of anything like full economic recovery. In regard to the 1978-79 Budget I am sure honourable members of the House are aware that the deficit is likely to blow out once again. The House will recall that last year it blew out by 50 per cent, by $1.1 billion, and this year it will blow out by something less than that. It would appear to be $300m or $400m. The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has admitted that Government expenditure will be $150m above the budgeted level and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has admitted that the deficit could be $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion. In case any honourable member is not prepared to take my word I quote from the  Australian Financial Review  of 24 April: 

 Mr Howard said it was extremely difficult to estimate the currentdeficit,butitcouldbe$3,100millionto$3,200 million. 
Clearly we have the Budget deficit blowing out by up to $400m since the budgeted deficit of $2.8 billion. If that happens I ask the House to take note of what that means in terms of Budget deficits accumulated by the Fraser Government compared to those accumulated by the Whitlam Government. In the three years of the Whitlam Government the three Budgets brought down by that Government produced Budget deficits amounting to $6.4 billion. We were attacked and berated for such supposedly irresponsible financing. In the three years of the Fraser Government, if the Treasurer is right and the Budget deficit this year is in the order of $3.2 billion, then there will be a total accumulation of Budget deficits of $9.3 billion in those three Budgets. It is almost 50 per cent above the accumulated Budget deficits of the Whitlam Government. So much for the attacks which were made on the Labor Government by the Opposition for the supposedly highly irresponsible financing through increased Budget deficits. 
Why has the Budget deficit blown out this year? Firstly, because of the false assessment of unemployment benefits. It appears that they are in the order of $1 10m to $ 120m understated, because the unemployment level is higher than the Government expected, and because of the clear understatement of unemployment benefits in the Budget estimates. The second reason is the changes in the Budget provisions. There were various changes. The means test on family allowances of the so-called newsboy tax was abandoned. The proposal to tax various benefits for the handicapped was abandoned. Both of these items were described by the Treasurer as areas of judgment. There was also a change in the taxation arrangements for lump sum payments, which resulted in a loss of revenue and changes to the plan requiring employers of subcontractors to deduct pay-as-you-earn tax before making payments. All of these mean increased expenditure or reduced revenue. As I have mentioned, that means an increased Budget deficit. 
This sets the scene for the next financial year when there will be a much bigger deficit problem facing the Government. Following the Government's failure to reduce the deficit in those three years it is now putting itself in the position where, if it sticks to its promise, it is going to have a massive deficit problem in 1979-80. It will be starting from a Budget deficit in the previous year of $3.2 billion, and on top of that it has committed itself to a loss of at least a billion dollars net in revenue. Those items come from the abolition of the coal export levy and death and gift duties, and reduced incidence of the crude oil levy, all of which will cost around $230m. 
The Government is committed to the introduction of full trading stock valuation over a threeyear period from 1 976. There is a firm commitment by the then Treasurer to introduce only 50 per cent so far. The other 50 per cent must be introduced if the Government abides by that promise. That will cost $400m. Tax indexation to be fully introduced from 1 July 1979, to which the Government is committed by the previous Treasurer in the 1 977 Budget Speech and by the Prime Minister in the 1977 election, will also cost in the order of $400m. The income tax surcharge, which the Government assured the Australian people would be for only one year, is due to end at the end of this financial year. The nonrenewable cost to revenue is $5 70m. This all adds up to a total revenue loss of $1.6 billion, against which such items as increased income tax from farmers can be offset and a reduction in the cost of the investment allowance of some $200m. 
There is still a billion dollars net which the Government has to find in order not to break its promise. What is most likely to happen is that there will be a combination of the measures I have detailed. The Treasurer in boasting about the Government's performances seems to have stopped talking about the stock valuation adjustment, even the 50 per cent, because it is such a sensitive matter for him. It seems likely that there will be no addition of the other 50 per cent. In fact it has been mentioned in the Press that the Government is contemplating dropping the 50 per cent that it has already introduced,, which would be a very substantial cutback on the promise made. We will have a combination of the breaches of promise and of contractionary policies involving Draconian expenditure cuts. If we have Draconian expenditure cuts and if we have substantially increased taxes, there is no doubt that we are going to exacerbate recessionary factors and chop off the chances of economic recovery in the next financial year. 
Supplementing that there is, as I have mentioned, rising inflation. The Government's Budget forecast of reduced inflation is clearly not on. The Budget forecast inflation of 5 per cent by the end of this financial year. It is certain to be well above that. I do not think that anyone on the Government side will argue with a proposition from the Opposition that it will be at least 8 per cent at the end of this financial year. Inflation has been around 8 per cent for the last five quarters on a 12-month basis. Although the March quarter figure could be taken as suggesting that inflation might be on a downward trend, I do not think that there is any economist in the country who would really believe that. For various reasons the March quarter figure of 1.7 per cent was not a realistic guide to the underlying inflation rate. Firstly, it was unrealistic because the petrol prices were surveyed in mid-January instead of mid-February and missed the increase at the end of January, and also because the effective end of discounting through most of the country, particularly in Melbourne, where it has been very important. Another factor is the Brisbane beer prices where the end of that strike meant the end of imported beer and the consumption of cheaper local products, the result being that the Brisbane price index was unusually low. The March quarter anyway is a seasonally low figure because of falls in the prices of fruit and vegetables. 
We cannot take the March quarter figure of 1.7 per cent as against the December quarter figure of 2.3 per cent as suggesting any reduction in the rate of inflation. In fact, in our view, inflation is certain to pick up in the near future because of the continuing impact of petrol prices. As well as those missed in the March quarter further increases will be recorded in the index such as the increases on 1 1 April, 30 April and others. This Government's crude oil policy of matching Australian crude oil production prices to those on world markets will feed the continuing increase of world crude oil prices into the Australian economy. If I might digress slightly, I point out that quite clearly this simply is not fighting inflation first, as this Government continually maintains is its policy. We cannot fight inflation first if we adopt a policy which imports fully into Australia, in a way which is totally unnecessary, the full impact of a major world inflationary factor and that is the increasing crude oil prices. It is absolutely unnecessary to do that. The policy of moving progressively towards world parity for Australian produced crude oil was a sensible one which we supported, but we totally oppose this mad policy of going immediately to import parity as was provided in the last Budget, thereby introducing a major inflationary factor. It is a complete digression from this Government's supposed policy of fighting inflation first. We also have the increased prices of various commodities and metals and, most recently of all, sugar. We have had dramatic increases in the cost of materials used by manufacturers. It has increased by up to 25 per cent in the last 12 months. This increase has yet to show up in the consumer price index. A lot of inflationary factors are building up which are certain to increase the rate of inflation rather than to allow any reduction in inflation in the near future. Insofar as the Government takes contractionary action to prevent that recurrence of inflation, we are certain to have the economic recovery- or whatever chance there is of economic recoverychoked off by those policies. 
There is this important subject of rising interest rates. There are clear indications that interest rates generally are on the increase. That will also tend to choke off economic recovery. The House will recall that at the last election the Prime Minister made a thoroughly irresponsible promise to reduce interest rates by 2 per cent in 12 months. He maintained that this was a promise which could and would be achieved. Of course, it has not been achieved and it will not be achieved in 12 months, 24 months or 36 months, the way things are going. What the Prime Minister did achieve was a reduction in overdraft and mortgage rates of 1 per cent. That has to be admitted. The bond rate fell by 1.7 per cent up to November 1978, but that was as far as it went. The reduction was achieved because financial institutions were encouraged to buy bonds in large quantities because of the apparent certainty of substantial capital gains. Herein, of course, lies part of the irresponsibility. The financial institutions were apparently guaranteed large capital gains. Surely this was a fairly immoral thing for a Prime Minister to do. That is what he was doing in giving them what they took to be a guarantee. They believed his promises that a 2 per cent reduction in interest rates would occur and therefore there would be large capital gains to be had by people who bought* bonds with interest rates of 10/2 per cent if they sold them when interest rates were generally more like 8'/4 per cent. They expected that that would be the case in 12 months' time. With apparently declining inflation it seemed that these interest rate deductions were sustainable and so for a while the Government was able to persuade the financial institutions to buy up big on government bonds. 
As I have mentioned there is current evidence of rising interest rates. We have had the February conversion loan after the December quarter 2.3 per cent price rise. That rate went up by 0.2 per cent. Then market yields began to rise as the market became concerned that the interest rate structure generally was not sustainable. Recently we had bonds being sold on the market at the rate of 10 per cent or more with the Reserve Bank of Australia trying to establish a rate around 9.7 per cent when compared with ihe official bond rate of 9 per cent. We then had the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  coming in with a temporary, or a long-delayed package, which involved savings bond rates going up 0.5 per cent, semi-government authority rates going up 0.7 per cent, and following that, inevitably, subsequent pressure from building societies, particularly in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, to increase interest rates by up to 1 1  per cent. Interest rates are rising and the Prime Minister's promise is patently not going to be kept- not in 12 months or in any other period- because of the Government's failure to reduce inflation as promised. The reduced interest rate structure simply was not sustainable. 
The rapid increase in the rate of growth of the money supply was also a factor involved here. The money market assumed that a rate of growth in the money supply, well above the Government's target rate, would lead to an acceleration of inflation and, therefore, this increased concern that the interest rate structure simply was not sustainable. I remind the House that the target rate for the growth of the money supply was 6 per cent to 8 per cent as set out in the Budget, but the annual rate of M3 has been about  Vh  per cent in recent months, with Ml rising at an even faster rate. Quite clearly there was concern on the part of those who were involved in the money markets that the Government had perhaps lost control. At least the money supply rate of growth was far ahead of what it had budgeted for. They saw this as being another inflationary factor. This was exacerbated by the Government's reluctance to take action on the money supply. This created uncertainty in the money market with consequent bidding up of interest rates. Some people claim that up to a half a per cent rise in market interest rates was due to this uncertainty in the market through the Government's failure to act and establish a new level of interest rates. 
The Government clearly failed to recognise early enough the potential impact on the money supply of the wheat bonanza. Having increased the first advance payment last November, the Government then found that it had a massive wheat crop to finance. The Government was very slow to come up with the idea of commercial bills as a way of offsetting the money supply expansionary effect of funding that first advance through the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The Treasurer's failure to state whether Government policy in regard to money supply had changed or whether he had simply lost control also added to uncertainty and higher interest rates. The reason for the Government's paralysis in this area for this period of nonaction, in which market interest rates were going up all the time and making it more difficult and more inevitable that there would be substantial increases in interest rates, was that the Government did not want to take any action to raise interest rates, presumably for two reasons. Firstly, because it was tremendously embarrassing given the Prime Minister's promise and, secondly, because of an election in Victoria where the Liberal Government is clearly under enormous challenge. Anything which might look like making the electoral prospects of that Government less attractive was clearly something which it was concerned to stop the Federal Government doing. So there were those sorts of pressures apparently accounting for a period of absolute paralysis by the Government with the consequent unease and bidding up of interest rates, and the inevitable establishment, eventually, of an interest rate structure which was higher than it needed to be. 
The reason interest rates are likely to rise across the board even further is that inflation is tracking up. If it goes well above the 8 per cent level it is inevitable that we will have higher increases in interest rates. There is continued uncertainty because of the Treasurer's failure to set either a new money supply target or new official bond rates. The Treasurer has admitted that the Budget target for the money supply no longer applies, but he will not establish a new money supply target because .he says he might not achieve it. That does not help to create certainty in the economy. Not having money supply target and official bond rates established still leaves this area of substantial uncertainty and creates the greater likelihood of increases in interest rates. The Treasurer's announcement on 22 April increasing the Australian savings bond rates and the semi-government rates simply ignored the official bond rate. He said that this was because we must wait for a new loan before we make such an announcement. It is much more likely, as I have mentioned already, that the Victorian election was a factor in that because an increase in the official bond rate by 0.7 per cent or one per cent would have meant a lot of alarm about general increases in interest rates. The market reaction to the Government's failure to deliver on the interest rate promise and so not provide large capital gains as promised, is also a factor in the likely trend to higher increases in interest rates. Having been promised capital gains which did not eventuate, the market will take a lot more inducement in the future. 
Also, an enormous deficit financing problem will face the Government in the next financial year because we have a tremendous amount of short term money at the present time. The Government has financed this year's deficit largely through Treasury notes, which is short term finance. Some $2.1 billion of short term finance has been circulated compared with $600m last year. So effectively next year the Government will have to finance this year's deficit and next year's deficit as well. This will create great pressure on the Government to sell government bonds. If it is to get the market to take them it will have to increase interest rates. Because of these factors it is highly unlikely that economic recovery will occur. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
Is there an inadequate supply of accountants in Australia. 
If so, what action is being taken to increase the supply of accountants. 
-Recently the Fraser Government's overseas borrowings passed the $4 billion mark. That is startling news not only to most members of this Parliament but also to the electorate at large. Almost everyone in this country realises how a policy for that amount of borrowing contrasts with the attitudes adopted by the Government parties in the past when they were in Opposition, and earlier when they were in government. All Australians recall the actions of the Government parties when in Opposition and their criticism of the Labor Government's proposal to raise $4 billion from overseas. The now Prime Minister  (Mr Malcom Fraser)  was trenchantly critical of such a proposal. I quote from the  Age  dated 2 1 July 1 975 in which he wrote: 
The impact of $4,000m on the Australian economy was ignored. The increased burden of overseas indebtedness for every Australian was brushed aside. The proposed loan would have increased the debt for every Australian family by $1,000. lt would have increased the overseas debt of Australia by four times, from a little over $ 1,000m Australian to over $4.000 m Australian. 
It would have left our sons and daughters with a massive repayment of over $ 18,000m in 20 years. Quite apart from the burden, that must be about the greatest overseas currency gamble in history. 
Since July 1 975 he has had a change of mind and has borrowed $4 billion. He presumably has different thoughts about the relative sense involved in borrowing such amounts. In the first year in which he was in government he still thought that such overseas borrowings were bad. In November 1976 when the Government devalued the Australian dollar by  7Vi  per cent the Prime Minister said- and so did the then Treasurer- that such a massive devaluation was necessary to avoid putting the country into hock for $ 1 ,000m. They could not possibly have a bar of putting the country into such debt. Consequently the dollar was devalued by 1 7.5 per cent. This figure was soon brought back to 12 per cent with successive devaluations before Christmas 1 976 but drifted to a much higher figure. 
In September 1977 this Government changed its mind and instituted a substantial overseas borrowing program. In 1976 the Government borrowed $279m. In the financial year 1 976-77 it borrowed $459m; but in 1977-78 it borrowed $ 1,760m. In September 1977 the Government received loans from the United States and Germany involving amounts up to $5 18m. In 1978-79 this Government has borrowed $ 1,566m with almost monthly borrowings. In August it borrowed $192m from Switzerland and $ 120m from West Germany. In September it borrowed $127m from West Germany. In October it borrowed $187m from Japan and in November $183m from Japan. In December it borrowed $2 14m from Japan; in January, $155m from West Germany; in February, $261m from Switzerland; and in April, $127m from Switzerland. Almost every month the Government has borrowed substantial amounts from Switzerland, Germany and Japan. The total official overseas debt at 30 June 1 976 was $l,325m. This increased by 384 per cent to a total of $5,092m. The Government repaid $109m this financial year. The total debt of $5.1 billion represents a debt of $355 per person in Australia or $980 per taxpayer. These substantial amounts are owed by every Australian taxpayer to foreign financiers. Compare those amounts with amounts which applied while Labor was in office. In June 1973 the cost of overseas borrowings was $96 for each man, woman and child in the country. In June 1974, the amount was $77. In June 1975 it was $88 and today, as I said, it is $355 per head. There has been a dramatic increase in the burden of overseas borrowings on the Australian people. 
At the same time we have had a substantial devaluation. Since November 1976 the currency has been devalued by 2 1 .6 per cent against the trade weighted index. So we have had a severe devaluation and the country has been put into hock, not only for the $ 1 ,000m which was supposed to be the alternative to devaluation but for over $4,000 billion. The implications of this overseas borrowing program are important for the consideration of this Parliament. The increasing debt repayment problem in the future is significant. Our debt obligations in future years will become a severe burden on the balance of payments if the borrowing program is continued. They already represent a substantial burden in the 1980s. 
Last November the Treasurer was kind enough to reply to a question I put on notice in October seeking details of the liability we would have in future financial years as regards interest payments on foreign loans and repayment obligations in each of those years. Let me give the House an indication of some of the figures involved in future years. In the current year, 1978-79, we have to pay a total of $422rn for debt repayment and interest payments. The total next year will be $620m. The following year it will be $581 m and the year after that it will be $847m. It will remain high until 1987-88. 
That was the position at the end of October of last year. Since that time there has' been a substantial increase in our overseas borrowings. We have borrowed another $940m since that time. All the figures I have just given to the House will have to be substantially increased because we have incurred an increased liability to repay debts in the future and also to pay interest on our higher debt. We are building up a massive problem for the future; that is, the problem of having to face in the balance of payments situation the repayment of our overseas debt and also substantial interest payments in future years. I stress that all these amounts are at the current exchange rate. If we continue to devalue against the trade-weighted index of our trading partners, particularly against those very strong countries from which we have been borrowing funds, we will be directly increasing in proportion to that devaluation the burden of repaying that debt and those interest payments. So the repayments obligations which will build up in future years are of very significant proportions. 
If the balance of payments situation does not improve the position will become quite horrendous. It could be argued that we will meet the debt repayment obligations that arise in future years by rolling over those debts; that is, we will renew the loans. But if we renew loans of that order and, in addition, we still have this massive balance of payments problem and have to seek further loans the situation quite clearly would become quite unbearable. In other words, I am saying that the borrowing program is something which just simply cannot be continued into the future at the kind of rate at which it has developed in the last two or three years. The program is reaching the stage where a very substantial difficulty is building up for us in future years in respect of the balance of payments situation. If the balance of payments situation is not corrected very quickly that problem could be immense in the 1 980s. 
The relationship of the debt to the total amount of our overseas reserves is also extremely worrying. The gap between our overseas debt and our international reserves is rapidly expanding and that has great significance for our exchange rate and our ability to continue to borrow. The excess of our overseas official debt to our official reserves was of this order: In June of 1973 it was minus $3 billion- in other words, our official reserves exceeded our overseas official debt by $3 billion; in June 1974 our reserves exceeded our debt by $2.5 billion; and in June 1975 our reserves exceeded our debt by $2.3 billion. It gradually went down until by June 1978 our debt exceeded our reserves by $0.4 billion. Today our debt exceeds our reserves by $1.6 billion. In other words, the turnaround in the proportion of our debt to our official reserves has been so dramatic that now our official overseas debt obligations far exceed our total international reserves. Indeed, they are almost 50 per cent higher. 
It is obvious that if borrowings had not been conducted our international reserves would have been completely wiped out. This situation certainly raises worries regarding our ability to continue to raise such borrowings. It could be that our triple A rating, which is important in terms of a country's ability to raise funds on foreign markets, could even be lost. The  National Times  of 4 November of last year contained an article which quoted  Mr James  Wolfensohn, an Australian merchant banker who is now based in Wall Street, as saying that Australia's triple A rating was in danger if Australia continued to borrow overseas so heavily and if the balance of payments situation remained as bad as it currently was. I will not quote that article. However, I think it is important to note that that was said by someone who is very intricately involved in international financing practices. 
It is clear that the borrowing program on the current scale simply cannot be continued without creating tremendous problems in the future. Therefore, it is tremendously importantly to get the balance of payments situation right while that borrowing program is in progress. The balance of payments situation is in very bad shape at the present time; it has been for some time. 
That is why we have had this very substantial borrowing program. Historically we have had a strong private capital inflow but that has not been present for several years. Admittedly the situation is improving to some extent at the present time and doubtless the Treasurer will want to say something about that. But it should be realised that the levels of private capital inflow that we are getting at present are low by our historical experience, despite the fact that the Government is trying desperately to encourage that private inflow to arrive. This historical reliance on strong capital inflow, although good for our balance of payments situation and our economic development, has also meant increasing overseas ownership of Australian industry. For instance the latest figures indicate that in 1976-77, 59 per cent of our mining industry was foreign controlled. In 1972-73, 35 per cent of our manufacturing industry was foreign controlled. In 1976, 34 per cent of the financial corporations in Australian were foreign controlled. Of course, this high level of foreign ownership is the inevitable concomitant of continuing a very strong level of private capital inflow from overseas and trying to balance the balance of payments situation through that means. 
The Fraser Government has desperately sought to encourage private capital inflow by breaking down the foreign investment guidelines. I do not need to go into detail about that. Since establishing investment guidelines which seemed to be reasonable when it first came to office, the Government has step by step gone back on those guidelines in its desperation to encourage foreign capital to this country. That is not to say that bringing foreign capital here is not a good thing. But what this Government is doing is borrowing overseas vast amounts of money- billions of dollars- and at the same time refusing to invest one cent of these billions of dollars in Australian development projects. It is then breaking down our foreign investment guidelines to encourage private capital inflow into resource-type projects in Australia to build up our exports and to develop the country. 
If we want to improve our balance of payments situation, to develop the Australian economy and to build up our export industries, which is what we should be doing, surely any foreign borrowing program should utilise those funds for the development of Australian export industries. But we have not put aside for such purposes in Australia one cent of the $4 billion that the Government has raised. Instead we have the absurdity of the Government's refusing to do that and then breaking down the foreign investment guidelines to get in private capital to do what we could be doing to some extent with those very substantial funds which this Government has sought to borrow. The Crawford report has pointed to the importance of undertaking this possible means of developing our export oriented industries, yet the Government has refused to do so. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 April1979: 
) Is copper one of the commodities which is expected to be covered by the integrated commodities program at present under discussion in UNCTAD? 
Has the United States of America made proposals for a price stabilisation scheme for copper? 
3 ) If so, what, in brief, are the terms of the US proposals? 
Is it a fact that the Australian Government is fiercely opposing the US proposals; if so what are the reasons for the Government's opposition? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 April1 979: 
) Has agreement been reached at an UNCTAD sponsored meeting on the establishment of an international fund to finance commodity price stabilisation schemes. 
If so, what, in brief, are the terms of the agreement. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. It concerns today's announcement of an increase in food prices of 3. 1 per cent for the month of April, which is the largest monthly rise since February 1973. It brings the annual rate of increase in food prices to 14 per cent. Does the Treasurer agree that this one month's increase in food prices will alone increase the consumer price index by 0.6 per cent? With large increases in petrol prices, building costs and manufacturing inputs also to be included in the June quarter index figures, does the Treasurer concede that the ongoing rate of inflation by the end of the financial year could be double the Budget estimate of 5 per cent? In view of the Government's arguments in the current national wage case that price rises in petrol, alcohol and tobacco products resulting from last year's Budget added 1.9 per cent to the consumer price index in the past two quarters, will the Treasurer acknowledge that the Government's budgetary actions have been a major factor in accelerating the rate of inflation? 
-For the last quarter of an hour the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has blustered and thundered away on the subject of taxation, but he has not given any assurance whatever to the Australian people about the charges that have been made in the Press and in this Parliament that this Government is considering once again breaking more promises. This Government has one unparalleled record. It has broken far more promises than any previous government, State or Federal in our history. Apparently it is about to break more promises. For a quarter of an hour of prime time in the Parliament, the Treasurer has refused to give an assurance or a guarantee to the Parliament or to the Australian people that this Government is not about to break further promises. Of course, those promises relate to the surcharge of 1.5c in the dollar which the Treasurer solemly assured the House in August last year would apply only for one year and the promise made by his predecessor in the 1977 Budget Speech that full taxation indexation would apply in the coming financial year. 
That is the issue that we have put to this Government. We have asked the Treasurer to give us that assurance and he has not given us that assurance. Indeed, he now leaves the House, having given us no comfort whatever about the Government's intention in this area. Quite clearly, what this Government intends to do is break its promises once again in this fundamental and important area of the tax burden which is imposed on the Australian people. This of course is not the first time that we have seen such an enormous breach of promise but it is probably the most blatant of all because it affects every Australian taxpayer. Every Australian taxpayer will now know that promises made to him in previous years will not be kept by this Government. 
The Treasurer made various allegations in the course of his speech. I will deal with a couple of them. He said that last year I advocated that we would need to have higher taxes. What he did not say was that I went on to point out what sorts of taxes should be imposed. What I said, of course, was that we needed to be looking at taxes- not the imposition of higher taxes on wage and salary earners, but on others who had the greater capacity to pay. I said that we should do more about tax avoidance and I will say more about that later. I talked about imposing taxes on the super profits of mining companies and imposing taxes on personal capital at a time when this Government is taking away such taxes. Those are the kinds of tax initiatives about which I was talking. I was not talking about increasing the tax burden on the Australian wage and salary earner. Somehow the Treasurer declined to mention that. The Treasurer said that the Fraser Government has done something about tax indexation. Of course it has done something about tax indexation- it has never introduced Full tax indexation. We had 90 per cent indexation in the first year, 80 per cent in the second year and 33'A per cent in the third year. But we have no guarantees at all about the future. 
Let us trace in a little more detail what has happened in the past. In 1975 and 1977 this Government gave assurances to the Australian people that a lower burden of tax would be imposed on them. This, particularly in 1977, was one of the major issues of the election. Every Australian taxpayer knows that in 1978 the Government introduced legislation to give effect to that promise and then broke that promise later with the imposition of the income tax surcharge. Of course what has happened in the period 1976-77 and 1978-79 is that, as a result of all the Government's efforts, the burden of tax has fallen much more heavily on the pay-as-you earn taxpayer, that is, the wage and salary earner, the person who does not have the chance for tax avoidance. If we look at the tax burden in the last two years- 1976-77 and 1978-79-we find that the total tax payments for pay-as-you-earn taxpayers have risen by 2 1 per cent, assuming that the Budget estimates for this year are somewhere near correct. The total tax payments of nonpayasyouearn taxpayers- these are people who are not wage and salary earners, but who derive incomes in other ways- are estimated to rise by 3 per cent. So that is 3 per cent against 2 1 per cent. Certainly there could be some explanation for this difference through a difference in the rate of increase in incomes. But I am very doubtful that there has been such a dramatically lower rate of increase in incomes for non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers as for pay-as-you-earn taxpayers. Certainly a large part of the explanation must be the fact that non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers have been able to slough off the burden of tax by some smart device or other. Despite all this Treasurer's bluster about how much his Government has done in respect of tax avoidance, the reality is that this Government has a tremendous amount to make up in this whole area. Massive tax avoidance is still taking place. 
Recently it was reported in the Press that a confidential Treasury document had estimated the loss of income tax revenue through tax avoidance as $3,000m- a tremendous loss of revenue. It is because there is such a large loss of revenue and because this Government is faced with much higher Budget deficits than the Whitlam Government ever faced-over $9.5 billion in the last three years as against less than $6.5 billion under the Whitlam Government in its three years in office- that this Government finds itself in this embarrassing position. It is not prepared to take the action to close all the tax avoidance loopholes. It is putting the burden on the wage and salary earner by continually breaking its promises in respect of tax- promises which it made solemnly in 1977, which it broke soon after and which it will break even more in the near future. 
The effectiveness of the Government's action to prevent tax avoidance was described last year by one observer as like patching a diseased elephant with worn out bandaids. That of course is the reality. This Government has introduced various devices to block tax avoidance, but it has still left the larger amount of tax avoidance untouched. Indeed, the Government's own back benchers know that that is the case. Recently a good  Samaritan  delivered to me a document entitled 'The Economic Outlook and Its Implications for the 1979 Budget'. It was prepared by the Treasury back bench committee of the Government and was dated 29 March 1979. This document, prepared by Government back benchers, presumably some of whom are sitting in the chamber now, states: 
However, the incidence of tax avoidance procedures is a joker in the pack. According to the Treasury, there is accumulating evidence that tax avoidance schemes are increasing rapidly, and that this will cause a significant revenue drain unless serious and urgent action is taken. 
There is what Government back benchers really think, despite the fact that the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  or some other Government member who will follow me in this debate might say that what I am saying is wrong. The fact is that what they say in their written document is that they are terribly worried about tax avoidance. Apparently they think the Treasurer is not doing enough to block off tax avoidance. 
If the honourable member would grant me a 10-minute extension of time I would be happy to tell him. The Labor Party has given its response time and time again as to what should be done. Quite clearly, this Government is not prepared to take the necessary action to block this massive tax avoidance. It is simply going to advocate, as was done in this document, that there be an increase in the surcharge. This Government back bench committee recommended that the surcharge be 2c in the dollar instead of 1  Vic  in the dollar, which applied in this current financial year, and that it be made permanent and not another temporary measure. They said that that would only cause them the embarrassment of having to break their promise again- a fairly realistic approach I should imagine. Therefore they said: 'Let us make it a permanent increase of 2c in the dollar'. So they know and recognise that their Treasurer is not doing enough about tax avoidance. But perhaps they do not want him to do enough because they do not recommend in their document that he do more. What they say is that we have to make up for the loss of revenue. Therefore they recommend this tax surcharge which it now appears highly likely that the Government will implement. This tax avoidance question is tremendously important and is a major factor which is relevant to all Australian taxpayers. All of us who pay tax on wages and salaries are going to pay more and more tax because those who are able to use tax avoidance devices are able to pay less and less. Yet the Treasurer boasts that his Government is the one that has done the greatest amount about stopping tax avoidance. The reality is that tax avoidance has become a mammoth problem only since the Fraser Government came to office. When the Whitlam Government and previous governments were in office there was always some level of tax avoidance. But it has become a much greater and a vaster problem since this Government has been in office. 
Let me quote from an article entitled 'The Tax Avoidance Merry-Go-Round' in the  Chartered Accountant in Australia  of December 1978. It was written by  Mr Pascoe,  the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia. It states: 
During the past year or two - 
The past year or two' in an article dated December 1978-  tax avoidance became a big business in Australia. It became a disease which, being allowed to go unchecked, reached epidemic proportions. It is, perhaps, not going too far to say that the tax paying community of Australia almost went mad in its rush to become a party to a tax avoidance scheme. 
So there we have it being said by a very authoritative person, the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia, that tax avoidance has become a major problem under this Government. Because this Government has been so ineffective or so undesirous of stopping tax avoidance, it is going to load more and more tax on the wage and salary earners of this country and make them carry the higher tax burden for this country. That is the reality. The fact is that this Government has also been involved in tax giveaways to high income earners. It has abolished estate and gift tax and the coal export levy. It has introduced the investment allowance and a stock valuation adjustment- 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) Does Telecom use social benefit cost analysis to evaluate potential investment projects. 
If so, what discount rate and shadow wage were used in evaluating the current investment program. 
Have there been any changes in the techniques of investment appraisal since the  Review of continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government, June1973. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
Were the forecast unemployment figures quoted by him during Question Time on 28 September 1978  (Hansard,  page 1491 ), in seasonally adjusted terms; if so, what was the reason for comparing them with actual registered unemployment trends. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented and wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House- 
Condemns the Government for its gross deception of the Australian electorate and its complete disregard for the well-being of Australian taxpayers and the depressed state of the Australian economy, as evidenced by the economic measures announced last Thursday by the Treasurer in the House which will have the effect of: 
Reducing the living standards of all taxpayers; 
Drastically increasing the cost of health care for all people and especially for the low income groups; 
Increasing costs for the rural sector; 
Seriously retarding upgrading of the nation's transport network; 
v ) Increasing inflation; 
Increasing unemployment, and 
Destroying any chance of economic recovery, and 
Calls upon the Government to provide a stimulus to the recessed Australian economy through increased spending on capital works projects and cuts in indirect taxes and income taxes for the lower income groups, as recommended by the Labor Party in its Alternative Budget'. 
The statement which was brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last Thursday and which we are now debating is by any measure an appalling statement. I am sure that the reaction by the vast majority of people in this country was the same as that of the Opposition, namely that they were appalled that such a statement could be made in this Parliament. This statement is appalling because, firstly, it destroyed the last vestige of credibility of this Government. As every honourable member sitting on the Government side knows, including the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  who just read us a little homily about schoolboy economics, this Government in the eyes of this nation stands condemned as a government upon which we cannot rely. It is a government without credibility. Before this statement was made last Thursday night, this Government was in a situation where it bore the distinction of being the least trustworthy government in our history because of broken promises. The statement that was made on Thursday night, as every honourable. member knows, contained several more broken promises such as the promises about tax surcharge, tax indexation, stock valuation adjustments, coal export levy and meat export charges to name a few. As a result of those further broken promises this Government surely must now be without any vestige of credibility. Who could possibly believe any commitment that the Prime Minister may make in the future? When the Prime Minister says in the future that the Government promises to do something no one will believe that statement. That is something that this Government will have to live with in the future. 
Secondly, apart from destroying the last vestige of credibility of this Government this statement also creates much more uncertainty and insecurity in the nation. It does this because it is quite clear that this Government does not know where it is going. In the statement which was delivered, the Government purports, firstly, to give us some indication of government policy. It then says: 'We do not really know what tax policies we should be using in the next Budget so we will have to leave that go for several months'. So between now and the end of November or, at least, until 2 1 August, we will not know what the Government's taxation policies are. The excuse given for this situation is that there may be some change in the factors which come into revenue estimates. What factors are they? We are not told what they are. It seems highly likely that the Government simply is in a stew trying to work out what policies it should be pursuing and trying to find the magic formula for economic recovery. In the process of doing this, of course, it is destroying the security of the nation, such as the personal security of people for such things as health insurance arrangements. The people are bewildered by the continual changes in health insurance arrangements in this country. It has already been shown in previous debate that the Government simply has no real answers in this area except to thrash around trying to find some way of providing health care on the cheap. As a result it is creating great insecurity for people who are concerned about their health and that includes everyone in this country. The Government simply does not know what policies it should be pursuing at the present time. That is quite obvious and that must be a matter of great concern to the nation. 
It should also be a matter of great concern to the nation that as a result of this statement severe imposts will be inflicted on taxpayers in a highly regressive manner. It confirms the tax surcharge of 1 '/2c in the dollars which was introduced last year. That has applied over the last seven months at 2.5c in the dollar. That tax surcharge is now being continued and it is likely to be continued through the next financial year. So we have this regressive 2.5c in the dollar in addition to the tax rates which means, for the lower income earners, an 8 per cent rise in their taxes and, at the top end, a rise of 4.3 per cent. That is because the 2.5c is added to the marginal tax rate on a flat basis. So it is a highly regressive tax increase. The higher the income the lower is the tax increase. The denial of promised tax deductions means that taxpayers are paying much more tax than they had reason to expect. I will give some examples of this. The failure of the government to honour its promise in respect of tax indexation and to wipe out the surcharge means that a taxpayer in the $120 a week bracket will, from 1 July, be paying $4 a week more; at $ 160 a week, $5 a week more; at $220 a week, $6.50 a week more. Those are the amounts of tax that taxpayers will be paying additional to what they would have been paying had this Government been honest and stuck to its promises. 
A further factor to take into account is that this statement greatly increases the cost of health care to the populace. This subject has been covered very well in previous debate. Let me remind the House that the removal of the Commonwealth subsidy for medical care and the increase in public hospital charges are certain to have a combined effect of increasing the cost of health insurance for a family by approximately $3.50 to $4 a week. It is amazing that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  had the gall to claim in his statement that the Government has maintained universal health protection. Quite obviously it has not done that. There is now no government protection for the health cost of such a basic medical item as going to see a general practitioner. So the Government's claim that it is providing universal health protection surely stretches credulity even further than all the other breaches of promise which I have mentioned. Of course, the fact that the increase in health insurance costs is the same, whatever one's income, further adds to the regressive nature of the Government's fiscal policies. It means that the poorer families have to pay the same amount as rich or high income families. Therefore, it is a much greater percentage impost on their living standards and significantly reduces their living standards when compared to those on higher incomes. Furthermore, it is important to note from this statement by the Treasurer that he has admitted that the Government's policies for the next financial year will not reduce inflation or unemployment. On  Nation-wide,  following the statement in this House on Thursday night, the Treasurer admitted that inflation would not be reduced in the next financial year. He also admitted that unemployment would not be reduced. In fact, he said it could be a little higher. When asked his reckoning on unemployment, he stated: 
I think it would be in the order of what it was in the early part of this year. It may be a little higher. 
So there we have an acknowledgement from the Treasurer that unemployment is more likely to get worse rather than better in the future. The Government's excuse for all these enormous breaches of promise- that is the reduction of living standards of the Australian people, the increase in taxes and the whole array of matters which I have just mentioned- is that we must have Budget responsibility. This was the basic theme of the speech from the Minister for Defence. He said that we had to have Budget responsibility and that if we did not have this kind of Budget then we were not doing the right thing by the Australian nation because we were not being economically responsible. He might like to know, having given us a lecture on the need to reduce deficits, that in the three years of the Labor Government the total amount of deficits was $6.4 billion. In the three years of the Fraser Government the total deficits are going to be about $9.3 billion. I cannot be exact about the last percentage point on the Government's Budget deficit because we have not got the final figure for this financial year. But assuming it is $3.2 billion which the Treasurer estimated a few weeks ago, then it is $9.3 billion for the three deficits over the last three financial years. If economic irresponsibility is measured by the size of deficits it would seem that the Fraser Government is being far more irresponsible than the Labor Government. 
Let me say a few more things about Budget responsibility. However one interprets that, Budget responsibility does not excuse dishonesty. This 
Government stands condemned by the people of this nation as dishonest because it made all those promises about fists full of dollars and tax cuts at the last election. They are simply not being fulfilled. Budget responsibility does not excuse that. If the Government does not know whether it can meet the promises then for goodness' sake it should not make them. Do not come crying later that there has been a change in circumstances, that something has happened that was not expected. Budget responsibility does not excuse dishonesty. In any case, the Government's concept of Budget responsibility is utterly invalid. This Government's package would be very much more relevant to an economy in the midst of an economic boom rather than in the midst of a severe economic recession. The Government's central aim, it says, is the need to reduce the deficit because this will bear down on inflation. But the Government completely ignores the fact that this process of increasing taxes and reducing Government expenditure will bear down on employment so creating more unemployment. This has been what has happened ever since this Government has been in office. Surely even the densest member on the Government side must be starting to realise that that is what has been happening while this Government has been in office. Since this Government has been in office its whole economic policy has been marked by a process of cutting back on government expenditure and latterly increasing taxes with a view to reducing the deficit. What has happened? It has not reduced the deficit. The deficit this year will be $3.2 billion. The Government has not reduced the deficit as I have mentioned. Collectively, it is much higher than the deficit of the Labor Government. It has not done that because it has not been able to regenerate economic recovery. The Government has not been able to regenerate economic recovery because the policy that it has produced to reduce the deficit has created more unemployment. The higher the level of unemployment, the higher the level of the deficit. This is the basic economic lesson which this Government simply cannot understand. If one imposes policies to restrict demand, by increasing taxes and cutting government expenditure continuously with the aim of reducing the deficit, what in fact happens, and what has certainly happened year after year after year- it will happen again next year if these policies are continued- is that the Budget deficit blows out. That happens because there is a lot less people at work than expected and therefore there is less tax gained through personal income tax and from company tax. The Government also pays a lot more in unemployment benefits. The result is that the Budget deficit blows out. 
The Government knows that the deficit blew out by 50 per cent last year. In a newspaper this morning it is estimated that the blowout will be 25 per cent. The whole continuous basis of the Government's economic policy is based on a concept which is fundamentally wrong. It is based on the assumption that the Government can cut the Budget deficit by strict fiscal measures. These measures have not worked in the past and will not work in the future because the Government is winding down the economy. In the last financial year this has been offset to some extent by a very dramatic increase in farm incomes which has given a filip to demand and given the economy some semblance of regeneration. But that is going to be cut off at the socks again by these policies. The increase in taxescontinuation of the surcharge and not continuing with tax indexation and the rest of the packagemeans that the Government is going to be cutting back on demand even further. In doing that it is going to be winding the economy down, cutting back on demand and increasing unemployment. - The Treasurer admits that higher unemployment will result in January and February next year. Again the Treasurer admitted that the policy will not reduce inflation. So this whole policy is based on an assumption which is just fundamentally wrong. Surely this Government finally must start to see that its policies will not work this way. 
If one looks at the countries which have managed to get their rate of inflation right down to 2 per cent and 3 per cent, such as West Germany and Japan, one finds that reaching those figures was not enough to get their economies moving again. They both had to increase public expenditure to try to get their economies moving again. Australia does not need packages, like this one, which deflate the economy and give much less chance of full employment than we had before. What Australia needs is entirely the opposite approach. We need a stimulatory approach which will increase government expenditure to a moderate degree and some reduction in taxes to get the economy going. That process in itself, of getting the economy moving, will reduce the deficit. If we could get back to somewhere near full employment the deficit would be automatically reduced. 
The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at Melbourne University has estimated that last year's Budget on a full employment level of activity represented a Budget surplus of $ 1 billion. The same will be even more true of next year's Budget. On the figures now available it is likely to mean an ever more contractionary Budget. With full employment the Budget surplus would be much greater than $ 1 billion. This indicates the extraordinary nature of this Government's policies. If only this Government could turn the policies around. If it had an expansionary stimulatory fiscal policy it could wipe out the deficit. The Opposition wants to do this but by the sensible approach of creating full employment, not by the mad economically irrational approach of creating more unemployment 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the seasonal adjustment factors for registered unemployment published for the first time in the March issue of the  Australian Labour Bulletin. 
On the basis of these factors, has the estimated seasonally adjusted registered unemployment risen from 408,000 at the end of December 1978 to 422,000 at the end of January 1 979 and 432,000 at the end of February 1 979. 
What does the Government conclude about the state of the labour market from these figures. 
-The Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill is a Bill of shame. Its purpose is to give effect to three broken promises and an outrageous tax fiddle. It need hardly be said, therefore, that the Opposition strongly opposes this legislation. The principal measure contained in the Bill is to override existing income tax legislation in respect of the requirement for the income tax surcharge to end on 30 June 1979 and for indexation of the personal income tax schedule to apply from 1 July 1979. As every member of this House and most people in this nation are by now aware, these two matters were each the subject of specific unqualified promises by the Government. However, the Government has seen fit, by this legislation, to break those promises and to provide that pay-as-you-earn deductions will continue at their present rate up to 30 November or such earlier date as may be set by proclamation; but for several months at least the supposedly temporary tax surcharge will continue and tax indexation will not be applied. 
The impact of these dishonourable decisions on Australian taxpayers will be substantial. The continuance of the surcharge at the rate at which it applied since November 1978 means, in effect, that unless and until some subsequent decision is taken to change it at the time of the August Budget the rate of the surcharge for 1979-80 has been moved up from l.Sc in the dollar this year to 2.57c in the dollar next financial year. The effect of this higher surcharge is considerable for all taxpayers, and particularly so for the lower income earners. Being levied as a flat rate rather than as a percentage, the surcharge is quite inequitable in its incidence on taxpayers. Thus a taxpayer whose income is between approximately $3,900 per annum and $16,600 per annum has a base rate marginal tax of 32c in the dollar. The impact of the surcharge on his marginal tax rate is to take it to 34.7c in the dollar, that is, a rise of 8 per cent. For a taxpayer whose income is between $ 1 6,600 and $33,200 the basic marginal rate is 46c in the dollar. The impact of the surcharge is to take it to 48.57c or an increase of 5.6 per cent- rather less than the 8 per cent rise applying to those in the lower marginal tax bracket. For a taxpayer who has a high income and who is unable to find a tax avoidance scheme which brings his taxable income below $33,200 per year, the basic marginal rate is 60c in the dollar, which will now become 62.57c in the dollar, that is, a rise of 4.3 per cent in his marginal rate. 
Thus the tax surcharge is quite inequitable. The higher the income, the lower the percentage increase in the marginal tax rate as a result of the surcharge. If the Government believed it had to have a surcharge, why did it not express it in an equitable form? The same percentage rise in all marginal tax rates would have ensured equal treatment of taxpayers, but, as this Government has shown in so many instances, it is not really concerned about equity at all. Despite the brazen description by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the mini-Budget as an equitable package, as he described it in the statement he made in the House last night, it is patently clear from consideration of the impact of the surcharge that it is highly inequitable. 
The suspension of tax indexation also represents a significant tax impost on taxpayers. This Government has frequently proclaimed that tax indexation- that is, adjustment of the tax schedule for inflation- is necessary to prevent what it calls taxation by stealth, by which it means the increasing incidence of taxation as inflation takes taxpayers into higher tax brackets. Such a process was most marked in the 23 years between 1949 and 1972, during which taxation by stealth, if one wants to call it that, was a stock in trade of the conservative governments then ruling this country. Following the report of the Mathews Committee of Inquiry into Inflation and Taxation in 1 975- a report which was commissioned by the then Labor Government- the Fraser Government gave effect to that Committee's recommendations for tax indexation with much rhetoric about its being essential to keep governments honest. 
Such statements seem to be a very strong indictment of the Menzies, Holt, Gorton and McMahon governments and have now left the Fraser Government hoisted on its own petard. By its own admission, the suspension of tax indexation is an admission of its own dishonesty. If tax indexation is essential to honesty in government, as this Government has proclaimed very often, the Bill we are now debating, which prevents the application of the promised tax indexation, is evidence of this Government's dishonesty. That this deprivation of tax indexation also involves a blatant breach of an electoral promise only compounds further that conclusion. It also means that the tax burden on taxpayers will be increased. 
It is ironic that supporters of the Government have sought refuge in the argument that weekly pay-as-you-earn payments will not increase at any given level of income. That certainly is true. What they cannot avoid is that the denial of tax indexation means that the increase in the tax burden on all taxpayers whose incomes have increased no faster than the rate of inflation and which has occurred automatically as their income has increased will be allowed to continue. Thus, in a very real sense, the Government's denial of tax indexation does involve the decision to increase the tax burden on taxpayers generally. The combined effect of these measures on taxpayers is to burden even the lowly paid with a tax bill several dollars a week higher than would have applied had the Government honoured its promises. To demonstrate that, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which spells out the cost to taxpayers of the Government's broken promises. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905303_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table calculates the cost to taxpayers in the case of a single taxpayer and also a taxpayer with a dependent spouse. It shows the present weekly tax at various levels of income; what that weekly tax would be without the surcharge; what the tax would be without the surcharge and with full tax indexation; and what is the total weekly cost of the Government's broken promises to taxpayers at the various income levels. We see that the cost to those with dependent spouses and with an income of $120 a week is $4 a week. At an income of $ 1 60 a week the cost becomes $5 a week; at $200, $6; and at $220, $6.50. Quite considerable increases have occurred in the tax burden for taxpayers as a result of this Government's broken promises. For as long as the Government fails to adhere to its promises in the next financial year then so long will those be the weekly costs borne by taxpayers as a result of those two broken promises. 
The table which I have incorporated in  Hansard  refers to full tax indexation. What the Opposition has taken as full tax indexation is an adjustment factor of 7.9 percent, which is the full rise in the consumer price index for the year to March 1979 over the year to March 1978. In this regard we differ from the Government as to what is meant by full tax indexation. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made plain in his mini-Budget statement that if tax indexation is introduced for any part of the next financial year the adjustment factor used will be 6.5 per cent, not the 7.9 per cent indicated by consideration of the complete consumer price index. The reason for the difference is that the Government intends to discount for the next increase in all indirect taxes including the crude oil levy in the last two Budgets and for the effect on the consumer price index of the phasing in of the import parity pricing policy for Australian produced crude oil. This policy allows the oil producing companies to increase the proportion of their production that they can price at import parity year by year. The legislation covering the tax indexation factor is to be changed to enable this to be done. 
One could well query this whole policy of discounting for oil price increases since the aim of the policy is presumably primarily to discourage the consumption of oil and to encourage the search for it and the development of resources already discovered, and to encourage the search for alternative energy sources- at any rate, those are the reasons put forward by the Australian Government's counsel in the current national wage case as being the reasons for the Government 's introduction of that policy. Insofar as the policy is meant to discourage consumption, it does that overwhelmingly by way of a price effect, not an income effect. The large increase in the crude oil levy in the last Budget had the effect of substantially raising the price of Australian produced crude oil not already priced at import parity. That meant a large rise in the price of retail petrol. It is that large relative price rise that has the effect of discouraging consumption. Certainly, to the extent that the real disposable income of taxpayers is reduced, there will be some further discouragement to spend money on petrol, as indeed on everything else, but it will be almost negligible in comparison with the price effect. In our view the crude oil levy is not like an ordinary indirect tax as its prime intention is not to reduce consumption overall but to reduce consumption of a particular item, that is, petrol and related products. If the reason for the levy is to reduce consumption, the Government is being very coy in asserting that as being the reason. It did not say so in the national wage case and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  in introducing the levy last year, did not give that as a reason for doing it. 
This reasoning is even more applicable to the decision of the Government which is incorporated in the Bill now before us, that is, to discount for the price rise attributable to the phasing in of the policy of allowing Australian producers of crude oil to price an increasing percentage of their production at import parity. That policy results not in revenue to the Government but in greatly increased profits to oil producers. They would, of course, pay company tax on that. It is in no way a tax measure; yet the Government wants to treat it as such on the flimsy excuse that not to do so would offset the intended downward effect of the consumption of petrol. This is absolute nonsense as the income effect on the consumption of oil in adjusting the tax schedule for an increase in price would be utterly negligible. 
However, an even bigger fiddle of the tax indexation system- assuming it is reintroduced in some form eventually- is to be found in the Government's treatment of increases in the consumer price index resulting from alterations to health care arrangements in this country. The Government's treatment of this matter is quite scandalous. In 1976 the first massive attack on Medibank occurred resulting in a very substantial rise of the order of 3 per cent in the consumer price index in the December quarter of 1976. The Government then altered the legislation in the Income Tax (Rates) Act to include price rises attributable to the increased costs of health insurance and the health insurance levy amongst the factors to be used in discounting the consumer price index when working out the tax indexation factor. However, that legislation referred only to such increases in the December quarter of 1976; not in any subsequent quarter. Thus the price rise attributable to the increase in health insurance costs at that time was discounted and the tax schedule was not adjusted for it. 
In the Budget of August last year the system was changed again, and this had the effect of reducing the cost of health insurance. I am sure all honourable members will recall that the change in the health insurance scheme at that time resulted in a quite substantial reduction in the cost of health insurance. That had the effect of reducing the consumer price index by 1.4 per cent in the December quarter of 1 978. However, in working out the tax indexation factor that perhaps would be applied in the coming financial year, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has taken absolutely no account of the reduction in the consumer price index attributable to the change in health care arrangements. He has completely ignored this factor. If he had included it, then instead of having an adjustment factor of 6.5 per cent for tax indexation purposes he would have had an adjustment factor of 7.9 per cent, which happens also to be the figure one gets if one looks at the total CPI discount for nothing. The Treasurer has taken out the increases in the index attributable to net increases in indirect taxes, including the crude oil levy, and also those price increases attributable to the phasing-in of import parity pricing by oil producing companies, but he has taken no account whatever of the 1 .4 per cent reduction attributable to health insurance rearrangements in last year's Budget. 
It is absolutely scandalous that the Government tries to have it both ways. When the health care rearrangements increase the index the Government passes legislation to make sure that that does not get taken into account in the tax indexation calculations. When it has the effect of reducing the consumer price index, the Government simply ignores it, instead of adding the figure back in, as it should do if it is going to be at all fair to Australian taxpayers. What is involved here is a straight out fiddle of the tax indexation system. There is nothing more to be said about it. Indeed, it is a very shabby piece of duplicity. It will mean that taxpayers in the general bracket of 32 cents in the dollar, as a base marginal rate of tax, will be losing 36 cents every week if the tax indexation system is brought back, and we are not at all sure yet that that will happen. The tax indexation aspect is something about which we have great concern. We have great concern about the Government's treatment of the oil pricing factor, both in respect of the crude oil levy and even more so in respect of the phasing in of the import parity pricing policy for oil producing companies. We are especially concerned about the extraordinary piece of duplicity involved in not taking account of the impact on the consumer price index of the health insurance rearrangements in last year's Budget. 
What the Government will eventually decide to do in the next financial year in respect of taxation is still unclear because it has postponed any final announcement on tax rates of 1979-80 until the Budget is brought down on 2 1 August. That in itself is rather extraordinary. This Government is clearly at sixes and sevens as to what it should be doing. It is torn between a desire to satisfy its fundamentalists, who believe that anything that lowers the deficit is a good thing, and those who are worried about the political implications of breaking promises. Being unable to resolve that quandary, the Government has postponed the final decision until the last minute of Budget preparation. So much for the Government that promised sound economic management. This blatant indecision is not the action of a government which is sure of its policies and consistent in their implementation; rather it is the product of a government which is searching desperately for the way out, for the magic formula which will bring about fulfilment of the wild and extravagant promises of economic recovery upon which this Government rode to power. 
It is important, therefore, that these taxation measures are seen in their appropriate context. The context in which these acts of indecision and dishonour have occurred is that after three and a half years of office- half a year longer than the Labor Government had in office- it becomes clearer day by day that this Government does not have the answers. Its inability to reduce the deficit, despite continual cutbacks in government expenditure, its breaches of various promises to lower taxation, and its fiddling with public accounts to exclude various items from the Budget sector, provide startling evidence of the extent to which this Government has failed. Combined deficits over three years of almost $3 billion, or 45 per cent, greater than those accumulated under the Labor Government tell the story here. 
If, as the Liberal and National Country parties proclaimed frequently when Labor was in office, the deficit is the measure of government economic irresponsibility, then the Fraser Government has been far more irresponsible than the Labor Government. This must surely worry Government members and supporters. What should worry them more is that the Government's failure to reduce the deficit results largely from the failure of its policies to bring about economic recovery. Rather, the economy has sunk deeper into recession, as shown by the large and continuing increase in unemployment. That increase has been the inevitable result of the policies used to reduce the deficit. The severe reductions in government expenditure, and the more recent increases in taxation, have restricted the level of demand in the economy and that has plunged the economy further into recession. With more people unemployed and a low level of economic activity, there was a shortfall of personal and company income tax receipts and an increase in the total payout for unemployment benefits. Thus the Budget deficit has not been reduced as expected. It has blown out to a figure well beyond its budgeted level. This is what happened in 1977-78, when the Budget blew out by 50 per cent. Again this year, despite the completely fortuitous explosion, indeed doubling, of farm income, which has offset the contractionary impact of budgetary policy, it still appears that the deficit will blow out by up to 25 per cent. 
At Question Time today the Treasurer admitted that we would have a Budget deficit of $3.5 billion, 25 per cent higher than had been budgeted for. Thus, the Budget deficit will again be over the $3 billion, despite the tax surcharge. The Government must bear that in mind. The Government put on a tax surcharge, but despite the fact that it will bring in $5 60m this year, the Budget deficit is going to be $3'/2 billion greater than the deficit last year. The Government has locked the nation into a downward spiral which is marked by continual cutbacks on government expenditure and increases in direct and indirect taxation, reduced economic activity, increased unemployment, blowout of the deficit, and then further counter-productive expenditure cutbacks and tax increases to reduce the deficit, which only further accentuate the whole downward spiral. These policies are taking us nowhere. They are not even reducing inflation. Both the Prime Minister and the Treasurer admitted recently that no reduction in inflation is in prospect over the next year. But still the lesson has not been learnt. 
In his statement last Thursday the Treasurer in effect announced more of the same, but just how much more he was not able to say. What we do know is that the Government's breach of promise on the surcharge and tax indexation will mean an added tax burden for all taxpayers beyond what they had been led to expect they would pay in 1979-80. That increased taxation will leave less money in the pockets of taxpayers for them to spend, as has been shown by the table I incorporated earlier in  Hansard.  Therefore, there is less likelihood of a substantial rise in the extremely important area of consumer demand than would have been the case had the promised tax measures been implemented. If the Government decides in the next two months that it must maintain throughout this financial year the surcharge at its current rate and to deny any degree of tax indexation, that will mean, from what one can gather from the Treasurer's statement that the Government will collect approximately an extra $1.5 billion more than would have been the case had it kept both its taxation promises. That amount of $1.5 billion is made up of $980m from the full impact of the tax surcharge over the course of the whole year at 2.57c in the dollar and a little over $500m from the effect of tax indexation. 
Such an increase, on top of the income tax that would be raised by the tax that would be paid in any case on increased incomes of existing taxpayers as well as the additional incomes of new taxpayers, would represent a stupendous tax rise. If total taxable income rose by 8 per cent, that would raise an additional $1 billion, even without the increases stemming from the surcharge and the denial of tax indexation. A total rise of $2.5 billion in personal income tax would represent an increase of 20 per cent in one year and would be massively contractionary. On the basis of the forward estimates of a Budget deficit of $4,600m which was mentioned by the Treasurer and the other announced revenue measures and expenditure reductions, a deficit of less than $2 billion would be nominally possible if the current tax schedule were retained. But the contraction of economic activity which that would produce would certainly cause a substantial deficit blowout. Therefore, all that would be achieved would be a further severe twist to the downward spiral on which this Government has set the Australian economy. 
To the extent that the Government decides to implement in the Budget one or other of its promises, the contractionary impact of its policies will be accordingly reduced. However, the Treasurer has made it quite clear that there is no chance of the Government's honouring both promises. In this context it should be noted that there is a considerable incentive for the Government to make a move towards honouring one of those promises, namely, that of tax indexation rather than that in relation to the surcharge, because the cost of honouring fully the pledge of tax indexation, would be only half that of ending the surcharge. Taxpayers can therefore have every expectation that the tax surcharge will continue throughout this year, which will means that an additional $1 billion in tax revenue will be gathered from personal income tax payers, whatever happens to tax indexation. 
Quite apart from questioning the highly dubious logic on which this policy is based, this prospect also raises the very relevant question of seeking other sources of revenue rather than continuously placing the burden on wage and salary earners. In this respect, as has been mentioned many times before in this House, the Opposition urges the Government to consider other forms of tax revenue, such as a tax of some kind on personal capital. This Government has abolished such taxes. Of course, it is all very well for the Government to say that it is abolishing such taxes as estate and gift duties. If it does so, it will mean that the Government will have to raise $100m from somewhere else. Under the current system that will lead to the situation of the ordinary wage and salary earners, most of whom would never have paid estate and gift duty anyway, having to fork out the extra $100m in tax revenue. 
Similarly, the Government has said that it will not impose a resource rent tax on the super profits of mining companies. If the Government forgoes the revenue which would be obtainable from those sources, a heavier burden will be placed on wage and salary earners. As I mentioned previously, the same situation applies in respect of tax avoidance. If the Government will not take the really hard decisions on tax avoidance but instead continues to try to patch up the current system in a most unsatisfactory way that will simply mean that tax avoidance will continue to be rampant and that the Government will therefore want to increase levels of income tax to gain the necessary revenue. 
The Government simply has to cease placing the burden on wage and salary earners. It has to look at other ways of raising revenue. As we have said, there are three ways of doing this which should be considered by this Government. It should look at some form of tax on capital, which equity demands in any case; it should certainly look at the taxes paid on the super profits of mining companies; and most certainly it should take much more effective decisions in respect of tax avoidance. If those things are not done we will see much higher tax surcharges being imposed in the future as this Government tries desperately to gain the necessary revenue. 
The legislation which is now before us breaks one further promise, that is, in respect of the stock valuation adjustment. Of course, the stock valuation adjustment was recommended by the Mathews Committee, as was tax indexation. In 1976 this Government promised that it would implement the stock valuation adjustment in full over the course of three years. It has decided to break that promise. It has introduced an adjustment to the extent of only 50-per cent. The legislation which is currently before us will do away entirely with that item. In introducing the stock valuation adjustment the Government was certainly fulfilling part of the intention of the Mathews Committee. But also it failed to take account of the fact that the Mathews Committee recommended that if there were to be a stock valuation adjustment, there should also be some adjustment in respect of liabilities because inflation reduces the cost of repaying debts. That factor should also be taken into account in assessing the taxable capacity of companies, if one is to make inflation adjustments. 
In introducing the stock valuation adjustment, this Government, whilst stating that it would implement the adjustment in full eventually, never at any stage mentioned that it might get around to the other side of the matter which would square the balance somewhat. Therefore, in our view, the loss of a stock valuation adjustment is not something which we deplore. We probably would not have introduced it in the form in which this Government has done so, in any case. If we had introduced that aspect of the Mathews report in respect of companies, we would certainly have wanted to introduce all parts of the proposal. We would not have introduced just that part which gave companies increased profits and done nothing about the other part which would have had the effect of somewhat reducing company profits. 
Finally, the legislation now before the House, as I said in opening, is a Bill of shame. It gives effect to three broken promises, which surely is a cause of enormous discomfort for all Government members. It introduces a quite extraordinary tax fiddle. It is an amazing piece of duplicity which probably no government will have the gall to undertake in any future tax Bill. 
-by leave-The statement made by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has some shortcomings in the view of the Opposition. It does not explain in any way to the House or the public at large what the role of the independent auditor is. I think it might at least have been explained to the House that this is a new role brought about by the audit legislation amendments made earlier this year. The role of the independent auditor is to audit the Auditor-General's Office and to undertake efficiency audits. Some explanation of that fact is perhaps relevant to understanding the importance of this appointment. 
It is worthy of note also- and those with a cynical point of view might care to take particular note- that the Government has given no reasons for choosing Hungerfords as against other firms of accountants or auditors. I think it is relevant in that context to note that the firm of Hungerfords was once known as Hungerford Spooner and the Spooner referred to was  Sir William  Spooner who was a Minister for National Development in various Menzies' governments. This company, therefore, has close associations with the Liberal Party. I think that  Sir William  Spooner was a foundation member of the Liberal Party when it was formed around 1940. Perhaps in that context some explanation should have been given why this company was chosen against others. 
It is also relevant, perhaps, to note that in this context the firm of Hungerfords is more particularly known for its work in liquidations rather than for auditing. Given the state of the economy at present, it is worthy of note that the Government has now called in the liquidator. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Are there any occupations in Australia for which the supply of personnel is expected to be inadequate if the rate of economic growth increases to a more normal trend level; if so, what are they. 
What action does the Government intend to take to eliminate these shortfalls and when will the shortfalls be eliminated. 
-The Bills now before the House are mere machinery matters, but they open up an area of interesting discussion in relation to taxation. What the Bills do formally is to abolish the valuation boards which had the function of resolving disputes over property valuations made by the Commissioner of Taxation. Such valuations arose principally in connection with estate and gift duties. With the impending abolition of these taxes from 30 June, the need for these boards largely disappears. So these Bills abolish the boards and provide that any residual duties of the boards will be carried out by a taxation board of review or a supreme court. The Bills also transfer to the taxation boards of review the function currently residing in the  chairman  of the valuation boards to inquire into and report on the financial position of persons who seek exemption from payments of income tax and also estate duty or payroll tax where payment of the full amount would involve serious hardship. So, as I mentioned, these are mere machinery amendments consequent upon the abolition of estate and gift duty. 
However, what these Bills represent is something different from a mere machinery matter. They are, in fact, the final nail in the coffin of Australia 's only comprehensive national taxes on capital. They leave us in a unique position in the world. Every other developed Western country has some form of tax on capital at the national level. After 30 June all Australia will have will be extremely limited and easily avoided capital gains tax provisions under section 26 (a) and section  26AAA  of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Section 26 (a), which provides for the inclusion in assessable income of capital gains where the intention of the taxpayer in acquiring the asset was to obtain such a gain, has been rendered virtually useless by the High Court of Australia. Section  26AAA,  which was introduced by the Labor Government and provides for inclusion in assessable income of gains realised within 12 months of acquiring an asset, is easily avoided simply by holding the assets and not realising until the year has run out. Thus, Australia, in effect, has no capital gains tax and in 25 days time will have no other national tax on personal capital either. The uniqueness of our position has been demonstrated by the Treasury in its Taxation Paper No. 11 published in December 1974 on estate and gift duties. In that paper the Treasury had this to say: 
New Zealand and Ireland, like Australia, have both estate duties and income tax, but no other general taxes on capital or wealth. The United States and all Western European countries other than Ireland not only levy income tax and estate duty, but also either capital gains taxes or net worth taxes (or in many cases both). If Australia had no death duties (it is often said- though rarely by persons concerned with the operation and principles of the tax system as a whole- that they should be abolished) and did not impose any other form of capital tax, Australia would be in an exceptional position on this aspect of 'capacity to pay'. It would be the only advanced western country levying no other direct tax apart from income tax. 
So said the Treasury in December 1 974, pointing out that Australia's position would be utterly unique in the Western world and it would have implications for the equity of the tax system. All countries have some form of death duties, except for Canada which abolished death duties at the national level in 1972 but imposed a comprehensive capital gains tax. Other countries with which we want to compare ourselves have substantial taxes on personal capital, such as the United States which imposes a comprehensive capital gains tax and also has estate duties. Great Britain has a capital gains tax and estate duties. Sweden, with which perhaps we do not so often compare ourselves, has a capital gains tax, an inheritance tax, which is a form of an estate tax but a more equitable one, and a net wealth tax. 
I pointed this out a year ago when the Bill to abolish estate and gift duties was brought in to the House, a Bill which was introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  without offering any reasons for the abolition of these taxes. It is absolutely remarkable that the Treasurer could come before this House, as he did a year ago, propose the abolition of the only comprehensive national taxes on capital and not give one reason for doing so. It was the Opposition's view then that there must be some form of capital tax to ensure equity in the tax system. It is even more strongly our belief now, especially as tax avoidance is resulting in high income earners and the wealthy escaping their fair share of income tax. That means there is all the more reason to apply effective taxes on capital now. 
There are various reasons why we consider the lack of capital taxation is a bad thing. Firstly, it reduces the equity of the tax system. This stems simply from the fact that people with the same incomes, if they are paying different taxes- as they do if there is no taxation of capital gains applying- are not being treated equitably. There is a difference in the treatment of those who earn their income through wages and salaries and those who earn income at least in part through capital gains because the second category of people are not paying the same level of tax as the former. Secondly, people with substantial wealth are clearly better off than those without such wealth- that is, they have a higher capacity to pay even if they have no higher income. In this regard, perhaps the Treasury is worthy of further quotation. In the same publication I referred to previously, Taxation Paper No. 1 1 of December 1974, this statement appears directly after my previous quotation: 
This broad view would support some tax on assets as an essential component of the tax system to recognise the advantages which accrue from the ownership of wealth. 
That is the end of the quote from the Treasury, a not very radical source. That is one reason why we need taxation on personal capital. Without it one does not have an equitable tax system. Further, it is a bad thing not to have capital taxation because its absence - 
Would you mind shutting up for a while? You have been a constant interjector for all the time I have been speaking. If you just shut up you might hear something and learn something. 
I am talking to the honourable member for St George who would know nothing about this subject whatever. He is just sitting there chattering away, apparently in some sort of government campaign to start showing a bit of life because its members know that their standing in this community is so poor at the present time. The second reason for having taxation on capital is that without it there is an increased tax burden on wage and salary earners. The lack of capital taxation means that the Government has to find other ways to apply taxation. Almost inevitably it means that more tax is paid by those who cannot avoid it, essentially wage and salary earners. 
The abolition of estate duty does not favour most wage and salary earners. Relatively few of them would have acquired an estate that was taxable on their death. For many whose estate was taxable the amounts paid in estate duty would not have been large. This is because the exemption for property passing to a spouse was $90,000 and $98,000 for primary producers. If a property were jointly owned then quite clearly an estate passing to a spouse would have to be very substantial, in the order of $ 1 80,000, before any death duty would have been applied. Even without a spouse, the estate had to be valued at over $40,000 or $48,000 in the case of a primary producer before the tax applied. In fact, only 12 per cent of estates were assessable for duty- that is, about one in every eight estates are taxed under this tax as it stands at present. Therefore, its abolition is of no benefit to most wage and salary earners. In fact, it is more than that; it is a positive detriment to them if they have to pay more tax to make up for the lost revenue of $100m, an amount which should have been much higher than that if loopholes in the tax had not been allowed to continue. 
The evidence of the tax burden of wage and salary earners increasing unfairly is discerned from a comparison of the increase in their tax burden over the last two years with that of the non-pay-as-you-earn or provisional taxpayers, those people who earn more than $400 a year from non-wage and salary sources and therefore are liable for provisional tax. On the basis of the 1978-79 Budget estimates, it was shown that in the two years from 1976-77 to 1978-79, payasyouearn taxpayers' liability in total was to increase by 21.2 per cent. That is a fairly substantial rise, particularly for a government which says it is a low-tax party. For nonpayasyouearn taxpayers the increase over that period as shown in the Budget Papers was to be 2.9 per cent. So there we had wage and salary earners tax obligations in the period 1976-77 to 1978-79 going up by 21.2 per cent on the face of the 
Budget estimates. For provisional taxpayers, the people who are not wage and salary earners but earn their incomes from various business sources, rent, interest, dividends et cetera, their tax payments were to go up by 2.9 per cent, a very substantial difference indeed. 
But these figures are somewhat superseded by the Treasurer's statement in the House last week. In answering a question about the deficit he told us that the deficit was going to blow out by $700m. He gave us some reasons why that was so and said one of the reasons was that payasyouearn revenue would be down $46m on what was estimated in the Budget. On the other hand, he said that revenue from non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers, provisional taxpayers, would be $200m less than the Budget estimates, much of which he said was due to tax avoidance arrangements. On that basis, over the period from 1976-77 to 1978-79, in the last two years, pay-as-you-earn taxpayers, the wage and salary earners, are going to have their taxes go up by 20.7 per cent. 
The member for Denison says rubbish'. 
-Well, the member for St George. I thought it was a suitably asinine comment for the member for Denison but I will attribute it to the member for St George. It is just a matter of taking the figures which are obtainable from the Budget Papers and the Treasurer's statement. There is no worry about their accuracy. 
Pay-as-you-earn taxpayers tax is up by 20.7 per cent and non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers, on the basis of those figures, will have their tax obligation go down by 5 per cent. I ask the House to contemplate what is involved in this matter. In the last two years wage and salary earners tax obligation has gone up by over 20 per cent. For non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers it is down by 5 per cent. How can that be? How can it be that wage and salary earners have their tax up by 2 1 per cent and the provisional taxpayers, those who earned their income through rent, interest, dividends and other business sources, have their tax payments down by 5 per cent? How can that be? Of course the answer is that it has a hell of a lot to do with tax avoidance. It is extremely inequitable if, on top of this system in which nonwage and salary earners are avoiding tax hand over fist and actually reducing their tax obligations, the Government starts abolishing taxes on capital which are paid by provisional tax payers. In that situation the Government is compounding the already gross inequity of the taxation system. That is something to which the Opposition totally objects. 
Pursuing this arithmetic a little further, if the provisional taxpayers over the last two years had the same increase in their total tax payments as wage and salary earners have, then they would have been up for an extra $524m this year. This gives some idea of the kind of avoidance of taxes these people have been able to achieve over the last couple of years. If they had the same increase in their tax payments as wage and salary earners it would mean an extra $5 00m plus over that two-year period. We might well say: 'It could be that the tax paid by provisional taxpayers has not gone up so fast because their numbers have not increased in the same way as the numbers of wage and salary earners have increased, or because their incomes have not increased at the same rate as those of wage and salary earners.' Let me pursue that matter a little further. We find that the number of self-employed persons who are provisional taxpayers has increased by 2.9 per cent over the two years to March this year. That is a 2.9 per cent increase in the number of self-employed persons. The total number of wage and salary earners in that period has increased by 0.8 per cent. Over the two year period the increase in the number of provisional taxpayers has been three and a half times the increase in the number of pay-as-you-earn taxpayers. The fact that provisional taxpayers obligations have gone down cannot in any way be attributed to the fact that there are fewer of them. 
On the other hand, we should look also at incomes. If we consider the national accounts we start to get some extraordinarily interesting figures on the movements of incomes for wage and salary earners and for non-wage and salary earners over the last two years. If the incomes of provisional taxpayers had increased at a lower rate than those of wage and salary earners then that would be some part of the explanation as to why their tax obligation had not gone up at the same rate, although it would hardly explain a decrease. But these figures in the national accounts show that from the December quarter 1976 to the December quarter 1977, the total amount of wages, salaries and supplements paid went up by 1 7 per cent. That is 1 7 per cent for wage and salary earners. For personal income from non-farm unincorporated enterprises and from dwellings interest and dividends we find an increase of 33 per cent, or double the rate of increase for wage and salary earners. In that period personal income from farm unincorporated enterprises increased by 48 per cent. So the total personal income from all unincorporated enterprises and from rents, interest and dividends increased by 37 per cent against wage earners' incomes, which increased by 17 percent. 
I stress the importance of these figures. Over the last two years, from the December quarter 1976 to the December quarter 1978, there has been an increase in wage and salary incomes of 17 per cent in total, and for non-wage and salary incomes an increase of 37 per cent in total, according to the national accounts. Yet at the same time we find that the total amount of tax paid by these wage and salary earners has increased by approximately 2 1 per cent for this financial year compared with 1976-77, whereas the total amount of tax paid by the non-wage and salary earners is down by 5 per cent. Quite clearly, there is tremendous inequity involved here. Wage and salary earners have had a much lower rate of increase in their incomes; the rate of increase in their tax has been greater than the rate of increase in their income. On the other hand, provisional taxpayers have had a very high rate of increase in income and their tax obligations have gone down. 
I think this brings home dramatically just what is happening in our society. We are being absolutely ripped off by people who are avoiding tax hand over fist, and those people are not wage and salary earners. They are people who are earning income through various other business sources, and quite clearly they are tremendously effective in evading tax. Despite all the claims of this Government about what it has done to stop tax avoidance, this is the end result. These are the figures for this financial year compared with the figures two years ago. Quite clearly, the tax system is becoming totally inequitable. The tax obligation of wage and salary earners is being loaded. The tax obligation of provisional taxpayers is actually going down, despite the fact that their incomes are moving in the opposite direction. 
This is very important material indeed, but it is not the end of the story. If we look at companies, we find that a similar situation arises. The gross operating surplus of trade in companies is perhaps some guide as to what is happening to company incomes overall. For the December quarter of 1978 the figure is up by 12 per cent over the figure for the previous year. At the same time, on the figures given in the Budget Papers we find that the total amount of company tax paid this year- less the $200m which the 
Treasurer in his statement to the House last week said would not be gathered- will be down by 2.4 per cent. The total amount of company tax gathered this year, on the Treasurer's figures, will be less than it was last year. This again is further evidence of the importance of tax avoidance. Tax avoidance is practised not only by personal income taxpayers but also by companies, and we have a dramatic example of that in companies having a substantial increase in income this financial year and at the same time reducing company tax payments. That is dramatic evidence of the effect of tax avoidance. In his statement last week the Treasurer admitted that tax avoidance was affecting revenue gained from companies, but these figures put it in a more dramatic light. 
These figures in total show that over the last two years there has been a most amazing explosion of tax avoidance. The kinds of developments to which I have been referring have happened only in the last two years. It is not something that happened in the period when the Labor Government was in office. It is something that happened over the last two years. It shows that the statement made by  Mr Bruce  Pascoe, the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia, as reported in the  Chartered Accountant in Australia  of December 1978, is exactly spot on. He said: 
During the past year or two - 
He was speaking in December 1978-  -tax avoidance became a big business in Australia. It became a disease which, being allowed to go unchecked reached epidemic proportions. It is, perhaps, not going too far to say that the taxpaying community of Australia almost went mad in its rush to become a party to a tax avoidance scheme. 
That was said by the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia in December 1978 about the previous two-year period under the Fraser Government. The figures that I have given tonight bear testimony to the truth of that statement. A most amazingly effective tax avoidance procedure has been worked out by many provisional taxpayers and Australian companies. It is in the context of this massive tax avoidance and distortion of the equity of the tax system that it is an absolute outrage for this Government to be further reducing taxes which are paid by the wealthier section of this community, and that is what it is doing by abolishing wealth and gift duties. It is taking away a tax which did not apply to the vast bulk of estates of wage and salary earners when they died, but applied basically to the estates of wealthier people. They certainly were able to avoid it substantially because of the loopholes that were allowed to remain. Effectively, it was some sort of tax on capital, and to take it away at a time when the whole tax system is being massively distorted in favour of the high income groups is an absolute outrage. 
Every wage and salary earner in this country should be outraged by the fact that this has happened. Especially is that so when at the same time as the Government is abolishing this tax on capital it is opening up a massive tax avoidance loophole, and it is doing that by abolishing gift tax. I will explain to the House just how that comes about. Gift tax was important for two reasons. The first was to prevent avoidance of estate duty through estates being given away before death. In fact, there are various loopholes in the gift tax which allow people to avoid that tax and to give away estates before death, but that is somewhat by the way. The intention of the legislation was to prevent the avoidance of estate duty. Secondly, it had the importance of preventing the avoidance of income tax by income splitting, and that is something which was recognised by the Treasury. In the publication to which I referred earlier, 'Treasury Taxation Paper No. 1 1 December 1974, Estate Duty and Gift Duty ', it is stated: 
If it is desired to maintain the individual as the basic taxpaying unit, the role of gift duties must also be seen as one of protecting income tax revenue, and of achieving equity in the treatment of recipients of wage and of property income, by reducing the purely tax incentives for inter vivos transfers of wealth. Though not discussed further here, gift duties must be seen as complementing the present Australian income tax as well as being an  essential  supplement to estate duty. 
In December 1974 the Treasury was saying that gift duty was important as a means of preventing avoidance of income tax. Here we have a Government, supposedly concerned about the avoidance of income tax- in fact it has already passed that legislation and what we are discussing here tonight is just a consequence of thatwhich is about to abolish a piece of taxation which is designed in part to prevent the avoidance of income tax. What an absurd situation. Let me explain to the House how that operated. Income splitting can occur without a gift tax by facilitating the handing of income assets to children and to a spouse and so paying tax on the asset at much lower rates than if the income from the asset had all gone to the principal income earner. Trusts are another way of splitting income and they have been greatly used to avoid paying tax. But the abolition of gift tax will make trusts largely unnecessary as an income splitting device. 
I shall give an example which will bring this point home. Take the case of a doctor who earns $35,000 a year in salary- probably a fairly lowpaid doctor- on which he pays tax at a marginal rate of 6 1.5c in every dollar in this financial year, assuming he has no other tax avoidance scheme, which again is probably a fairly large assumption. Secondly, let us assume that he buys a block of flats which earn a taxable income of $20,000 a year and that the flats are valued at $250,000. Without giving away the asset or without resort to trusts, he will pay tax in total on his income of $55,000- which is made up of the original $35,000 plus $25,000 return on the flats-of $24,948. The tax on the income from the flats is effectively $12,300. So, the total tax paid is almost $25,000. The tax on the additional income is $12,300. If he establishes a discretionary trust, that tax can be substantially reduced. The Government will allow him to do that because it thinks that trusts are a good thing. If he gives the flats to the trust and splits the income between a wife and two minor children equally, the wife and each of the two children will get an income of $6,668. The wife will pay tax of $930. The children will pay tax of $2,233 each. That gives a total tax paid on the income from the flats of only $5,396. Therefore, by resort to a trust, he has immediately saved $6,904, which is not a bad day's work. 
That is not the end of the story because if he, under this Government's generous provisionswhich honourable members opposite are happy to endorse- decides: 'Well, to hell with using a trust; that is a complicated legal device which is a bit expensive to set up: I will give the assets to my wife and children', he can get the income tax reduced even further. If he does that, the tax on the income from those assets paid by the wife and the two children will be $930 each, which gives a total tax paid of $2,789. He will save $9,300 more than he would had he kept the income for himself. Of course, he can still effectively use the income because his wife has it. He can spend it on his children's education, their clothes and their entertainment, et cetera. That is expenditure that he would have had anyway. Therefore, he saves a massive amount of money. This example I think shows how incredible this Government is. At the same time as it is making great noises and getting headlines by saying that it will rewrite section 260, it has passed legislation which is opening up opportunities for massive tax avoidance. It has passed legislation which will render trusts unnecessary. It has passed legislation which will enable greater tax savings to be made than would be possible under the present system by the use of trusts. 
How can a government be believed which says that it is really concerned about equity in the tax system, if this is what it is doing? That great reduction in tax by giving the assets to the children would not have been possible while the gift tax applied, without incurring a very substantial gift tax. In the example that I have given of the block of flats worth $250,000, the gift tax payable would have been $65,062.50. That would be a fairly substantial dissuader and something which would cause someone to think again before he decided to give assets to his children. Most likely he would say: 'Well, I will avoid that gift tax; I will use a trust'. Now he will not have to bother doing that. The gift tax, the $65,000 dissuader, is not there. AH that he will need to do now is to give the income to his dependants and to laugh at the enormous reduction in tax that this will provide. It is absolutely amazing that a government which says that it is so concerned about tax avoidance will enable such massive income splitting to occur and, therefore, rob itself of tremendous amounts of income into the future. 
Briefly, I think it is important to note also that the lack of capital taxes is bad for a third reason, quite apart from the two that I have already given, that is, that it causes inequity in the tax system and increases the burden on wage and salary earners. It increases the inequality of the distribution of income and wealth. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to pursue this matter. Both the distribution of income and wealth in this country are far less equitable than is generally imagined. There is grave inequality of income and wealth ownership in this country. In respect of wealth, I quickly remind the House that surveys show that the bottom 10 per cent of income earners owns 0.27 per cent of total personal net wealth in this country. The top 1 per cent owns 22 per cent of net wealth and the top 10 per cent owns 58.5 per cent of all net wealth. There is gross inequity of ownership of wealth in this country. The Australian Labor Party strongly believes that we need to introduce taxes on capital to overcome these three deficiencies that I have mentioned and to introduce equity in the tax system to remove the burden of tax on wage and salary earners, to right the enormous tax avoidance which is occurring, and to restore some equity into the distribution of income and wealth. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Has work begun on the preparation of a Standard Occupational Classification. 
What funds and personnel have been allocated to this task. 
When is it expected that the Standard Occupational Classification will be completed. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
What funds and personnel have been allocated to the introduction of manpower planning and/or manpower forecasting within his Department. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) How many persons are employed on a (a) full-time and (b) part-time basis in the Australian Services Canteens Organisation store at Woomera, South Australia? 
With the proposed replacement of ASCO by the Army and Air Force Canteen Service Organisation at Woomera, how many staff will be employed by AAFCANS? 
Will civilian employees at Woomera be eligible to serve on the local committee to be established to advise on the local operations of AAFCANS? 
I ask the Treasurer whether he is concerned that the already low level of consumer confidence has recently been further depressed as shown by State retail sales and motor vehicle registrations, and in particular by the publication last week of a poll which showed such confidence to be at its lowest ebb since such polls commenced five years ago? Is the Treasurer also aware that the pollsters have concluded that that alarming situation is due to a strong adverse reaction to the mini-budget of last May and to deep concern by consumers regarding their personal financial positions which will not be alleviated by marginal tax cuts? In view of these findings will the Treasurer now concede that as an exercise in economic management, the minibudget of last May was a disaster? 
-The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill which is now before the House is a minor piece of legislation. This is indicated by the fact that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr MacKellar),  when introducing it, spoke for only three minutes. Of course, ministerial brevity is not always a good indicator of the minor importance of legislation. I recall that the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill which was introduced two years ago by the present Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  had an accompanying second reading speech of less than two minutes. That is certainly a highly controversial piece of legislation. In this particular case the Minister's brevity in the second reading speech was entirely justified. 
The Bill seeks to clarify the law relating to sales tax at the top rate of  2Vh  per cent so as to remove doubts arising from the development of new products and from the production of various combination products incorporating some items which in isolation would be subject to tax at the rate of  2Vh  per cent but which would otherwise attract a lesser rate. The types of items particularly involved in this legislation are radio and television sets, record players and records, record holders, tape recorders and tape players, cassettes and cassette holders and other sound reproduction equipment. The principal purpose of the Bill is to insert a new provision in the Act to the effect that in the case of products that contain components that would in isolation be subject to sales tax at the rate of 27V4 per cent, those products will be subject to the rate of 27! per cent if the componency which in isolation is subject to that rate forms more than 50 per cent of the total value of the products concerned. 
More simply, in the case of a cocktail cabinet incorporating a television set or some form of sound system, the rate of tax would be determined by the proportion of the value of the cabinet that the television set or sound system comprised. If the television set contained in such an item of furniture comprised over 50 per cent of the total value, the tax payable would be 27.5 per cent. If it was less than 50 per cent, the tax would be that applying to cocktail cabinets alone which is a mere 2.5 per cent. 
The effect of this decision will be greatly to differentiate the price of these similar products. For instance, a cocktail cabinet containing a television set with a wholesale price of $1,000 could be priced very differently after tax with just very minor changes. If the television set comprised 49 per cent of the total value of the combined unit, that is, the cocktail cabinet incorporating the television set, the tax would be only $22.50. If the television set was 5 1 per cent of the total value of the combined unit, the tax would be $275. The effect of this extraordinary tax difference in very similar items will therefore presumably be substantially to discourage the production of such combined items where the proportion of total value comprised by a television set or sound system is more than 50 per cent of the value. There will be a very substantial incentive indeed for consumers to purchase such items separately rather than buying pieces of furniture which incorporate such highly taxed products. 
Despite the somewhat anomalous situation which may arise, the Opposition recognises the need for some arbitrary decision to be made as to the point at which the 27.5 per cent shall apply to such items, Given that reality, the level of 50 per cent does not seem unreasonable. The Opposition therefore does not oppose the Bill. However, it should be noted that one way of reducing the degree of potential anomaly would be to reduce the upper rates of sales tax. There are, in fact, good macro-economic reasons for doing that at the present time. It would reduce prices and so be anti-inflationary and would also stimulate demand for consumer products. Given this present state of consumer confidence, this would not be a bad thing. However, I have no confidence whatever in the likelihood of such a common-sense announcement being made in the Budget which will be brought down tonight. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What preparations are being made by his Depanment for UNCTAD 5. 
Will the Government offer opportunities for public consultation over the issues to be debated at UNCTAD S. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon  notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) What evidence is there for the conclusion in the report of the Committee of Officials on Medical Manpower Supply that past changes in health insurance arrangements and increases in medical fees have combined to increase medical incomes at a faster rate than incomes in the community generally. 
What is (a) the average income of full-time doctors, (b) their median income and (c) their range of income. 
What steps are being taken to study this issue as recommended in the report. 
What means of limiting the growth of medical incomes to more equitable rates are under consideration. 
I address to the Treasurer a question concerning the national account statistics which were released last night and which show that real non-farm product declined by 0.9 per cent seasonally adjusted in the June quarter. I ask: Is the Treasurer alarmed at this slump in economic activity? Were these figures available to the Government when it drew up its Budget? Is the Treasurer concerned that last night's very contractionary Budget will intensify this downturn and bring about a major depression? 

 -Mr Speaker, I second the motion because it is essential to expose the complete misrepresentation of the facts in this matter by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Gellibrand be not further heard. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
-The Budget which we are now debating is a mean, despicable and disastrous Budget which will be contractionary, inflationary and thoroughly inequitable. Speakers on our side of the House have shown this to be irrefutably so, but let me briefly recapitulate some of those points. First, I refer to the contractionary nature of this Budget. There is a large increase in receipts which are up 15.4 per cent, compared with only a 9.1 per cent increase in government expenditure, which is a real fall. If that large increase in receipts came about because of a large increase in real income- that is, because of strong economic growth- it would not be contractionary. In fact, it will occur with low rates of economic growth and the tax burden will rise. Therefore, it is contractionary. Professor Nevile of the University of New South Wales has described this Budget as the most contractionary Budget in over a quarter of a century. He is certainly one of the foremost fiscal analysts in this country. The Government argues that the contractionary effect will be offset by the improved expectations of a better business environment. But this is nothing more than guesswork and is highly unlikely to occur in our view. The assumed 3 per cent rate of growth in non-farm gross product is highly optimistic. We confidently forecast that it will be nowhere near achieved. 
This Budget on the very face of it will also mean more unemployment. Even if the Budget's targets are achieved it will mean more unemployment. The Budget states that there will be a 1 per cent increase in employment. That would mean an increase of some 60,000 people in jobs. But that implies a rise in unemployment, either official or unofficial, that is, hidden unemployment, of some 50,000 people. The number of people aged over 15 years is growing at a rate of 1.8 per cent a year. That means that the work force should be increasing by 1 10,000 people a year, a figure endorsed last year by the then Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. If we create only 60,000 additional jobs 50,000 more people will be unemployed whether they show up officially as unemployed people or not. They are persons who would have been in the work force and who would have had jobs if they could have got them. Undoubtedly, on the face of the Budget there will be a substantial increase in unemployment. If the Budget targets for the rate of growth are not achieved, as is highly likely, then so much larger will be the increase in unemployment. 
This Budget is inflationary. On the very face of it, it says that there will be an increase in inflation this year of more than 10 per cent. We will return to double digit inflation. Nothing the Government says can draw away from that fact. The Budget will reduce the living standards of a great majority of the population. That is also an undoubted fact on the very face of the Budget. We are told that real wages will fall. The Budget is produced on the assumption that prices will increase by more than 10 per cent but that wages will increase by only 9 per cent to 9W per cent. Prices will be up more than wages. The real purchasing power of wages will be down. There is also an increase in taxation. The Budget assumes that pay-as-you-earn taxpayers will pay 1 5 per cent more tax this year than they paid last year. 
Wages will rise by 9 per cent to 9Vi per cent but taxes will rise by 15 per cent. One per cent of that 15 per cent rise is accounted for by an assumed increase in employment. Therefore, perhaps the proper comparison is 14 per cent. But a rise of even 14 per cent is clearly a substantial increase in the proportion of income that wage and salary earners will pay in tax. Not only will people's real wages be reduced but their real disposable take home pay will be further reduced by the increase in the proportion of their income that they pay in tax. 
On top of that, for the third year in a row there is no rise in family allowances. There will be a 10 per cent fall in their value. By the end of this year they will have declined by 48 per cent in real value from the time that they were introduced. Their real purchasing power has effectively been halved since 1976. The real disposable income of wage earner households will decline because of reduced real wages, increased real taxes and reduced real family allowances. Those are undeniable facts on the very basis of the Budget itself. No interpretation is needed. I have taken those figures straight out of the Budget. Furthermore, this Budget is a redistributive Budget as all previous Fraser Budgets have been. This one fits into that mould very well. It redistributes income from the not so wealthy to the wealthy, from the poor to the rich. 
-It is not a lot of nonsense. If the honourable member listens to the figures he will understand. The rise in income tax is much higher for low income earners than for high income earners. The higher the income a person earns the lesser is the percentage increase in his tax this year. There has been a rise in petrol tax. A person pays the same amount for a litre of petrol whether he is a pauper or a millionaire or whether he is unemployed or is earning $ 100,000 a year as a general practitioner or a surgeon. Therefore, the incidence of that tax is greatest on lower income earners. That is the very nature of indirect taxes. This Budget encompasses a massive increase in indirect taxes through the petrol tax. It shifts the tax burden more heavily on to the low income earners. 
Health costs increases are the same no matter what a person's income is. He pays the same for health insurance whether he is on the minimum wage or whether he earns $100,000 a year. Therefore, the increase in health costs impinges most heavily on lower income earners. The real fall in the value of family allowances impinges most heavily on low income earners because the allowances are a higher proportion of their total income. Not to increase family allowances in line with inflation provides a greater impost on the incomes and living standards of low income earners. There has been no rise in the unemployment benefit for 75 per cent of the unemployedall those who are single. They do not get a zack out of this Budget. Quite clearly, their incomes will be reduced by 10 per cent this year. Prices will be up by 10 per cent yet there is no increase in the unemployment benefit. 
There is no rise in the allowance for the dependent children of pensioners and beneficiaries. There are half a million children in this category. Half a million children are the dependants of pensioners and recipients of the unemployment benefit and the sickness benefit. They have received no increase as they have received no increase in any previous Fraser Budget. This shows a despicable disregard of the welfare of children. In the International Year of the Child it is perhaps even more despicable than it would have been in any other year. The Government clearly does not give a damn about forcing half a million children into deeper poverty. There is no rise in the rent allowance for pensioners who are totally dependent on the pension and who have to pay rent. There has never been a rise whilst this Government has been in office. Clearly, these people are in increasingly desperate circumstances as rents increase substantially. 
From every aspect this is a despicable and mean Budget. How does the Government come to produce such a depressing, heartless and illconceived document? It does so principally because of its absolute obsession with the deficit, its belief that reduction of the deficit is a fundamental pre-condition for economic recovery. This is a very important point. It requires a detailed analysis to show how utterly wrong this belief is. I do not have time to do that today. For now let me make three points. Firstly, we acknowledge that the continuance of high deficits creates some problems for economic management so it is desirable to reduce substantially the deficit. But the question is this: How do we best go about doing it? That is what we are arguing about. Secondly, the deficit is the natural result of a substantial recession. It could, therefore, be eliminated by a substantial return to full employment. If the deficit is the product of recession, if we get rid of the recession we get rid of the deficit. Surely that makes some sense? Thirdly, government measures to reduce the deficit before economic recovery simply make that recovery much less achievable. Things such as a massive increase in crude oil levies intensify the recession and inflation. They create more unemployment which leads inevitably to an ever-growing burden of taxation. These are three fundamental points which members opposite would do well to think about. They are points which I will take up in a future debate. 
For the rest of the time available to me I will concentrate on massive government misrepresentations in the course of the debate on this Budget, both in this House and outside it. Firstly, let me refer to the state of the economy. The Budget was framed on the assumption that the economy was moving along nicely and that we were gradually developing stronger economic growth and that things were on the right path. That view simply does not accord with the facts. The Government has done its best to bury the facts in the Budget documents themselves. The most important facts are contained in the national accounts. They have usually been taken as some sort of guide as to how the economy is moving. Statement No. 2 of this Budget includes a section at the beginning which sets out to bag the national accounts and say that we cannot really take much notice of them as being a reliable indicator of the state of the economy. The Government does that for one good reason. The June quarter figures, which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  admitted at Question Time soon after the Budget was brought down, showed a reduction of 0.9 per cent in the rate of growth in non-farm gross product. In other words, there was no growth at all. It fell by 0.9 per cent in the June quarter in real terms. That is an alarming occurrence. If the growth rate has actually turned down to the point where it is negative we should all be alarmed. 
The Government hastily inserted at the beginning of Statement No. 2 a section to say that we cannot really take notice of the national accounts as they are almost always revised upwards in future years. That simply is not the case. Table 1 in Statement No. 2 indicates that in the previous two years, 1977-78 and 1976-77, the revisions of the rate of growth of gross product have been downward. They have not been upward at all. Therfore the very assumption that the Government makes from the table- namely, that it can be expected that the figures for 1978-79, which are looking a bit sick at the moment, will be revised upwards in the future- just does not hang together on the basis of the Government's table. Furthermore, there are arithmetical mistakes in that table. The average figures shown at the bottom of that table are wrong for the section headed 'Two years later' and the section headed 
Three years later'. The situation is overstated in both cases. 
So quite clearly the Government has set out to try to throw a veil over the national accounts. When the Budget had been drawn up it was concerned to find that its assumptions about the rate of growth of the economy were wrong and that gross domestic product was tending downwards. That, of course, is a very important matter. 
Other factors about the state of the economy are cause for alarm. Let us look at the item personal consumption. That is a very important item if we are looking for the prospective rate of growth of the economy. If we are to have economic recovery, we clearly have to have an increase in the real level of personal consumption. The news we have had over the last quarter or so has not been good. The real level of retail sales fell by 2 per cent in the June quarter. That situation is certainly alarming. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research conducted a survey on consumer confidence in July. That survey found that consumer confidence was at the lowest level it had been for any of the previous 5 years during which the Institute had been conducting these reviews. So clearly there was no cause for optimism in the area of personal consumption. When that situation is coupled with the decline in living standards, we must have real fears about the trend in personal consumption in the future. 
In the area of private business investment, the Budget assumes a 4'/2 per cent growth in real terms. However, on the day before the Budget was announced the Bureau of Statistics produced a survey on new fixed capital expenditure for the next 6 months- that is, up to December 1979. It showed that the investors or the businessmen expected that there would be a decline of 2 per cent in money terms in the amount of money they expected to invest in that 6-month period compared with the amount invested in the same 6 months of 1978. If we take into account the inflation rate, we are looking at a real fall of at least 8 per cent in new capital investment in the current half year. That prospect is totally contrary to Budget assumptions. 
So the Government's basic assumptions about the state of the economy on which this Budget is based are incorrect. Rather than a steadily improving and expanding economy, we had before the Budget was introduced, an economy which showed major signs of further contraction. On top of that the Government has introduced a very contractionary Budget. It is not an antiinflationary Budget, as the Treasurer and the Government would have us believe. They have continually said that this Budget is, if anything, an anti-inflationary Budget. The fact is that it encompasses an increase in inflation, and that increase in inflation will come about because of the deliberate policy decisions of the Government to increase prices. The Government has invented this new way of fighting inflation. It is done by increasing prices substantially; it is done by increasing the price of petrol, health costs and a whole load of imported materials and goods. By this means, according to the Government, inflation is beaten. The logic of that will escape most people in this country, because there is no logic in it. 
Quite clearly what the Government is doing is feeding inflation and inflationary expectations by these kinds of decisions. It has deliberately increased the crude oil levy, thereby adding 1.2 per cent to prices this year. That decision was not made by the oil producing countries; it was made by the Fraser Government. The same situation applies to health costs. It will add 1.3 per cent to the consumer price index. Some unknown amount will be added by the 2 per cent increase in the price of imported materials which previously entered the country duty free. So, as I say, the Government is following this process of fighting inflation by increasing prices. It is an absurd policy. 
The Government claims that it is cutting taxes. It is true that at a point in time during the year pay-as-you-earn tax deductions will be reduced, but the proportion of income paid in tax by all taxpayers will increase this year. It is the impact over the whole year that matters. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables which show the impact of the Budget tax changes. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909136_49_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. These tables speak for themselves. They show that the lower the income a person receives the higher is the percentage increase in tax this year. This, of course, is thoroughly inequitable. On top of that we have to bear in mind the fact that the increased health costs will take away from people any reduction in tax to which they might be entitled after December before they even get it. That is particularly likely to be the case if they are low income earners. Why do we have this higher income tax burden? We have it because of the promises the Government has broken. I refer to its promise to abolish the surcharge at the end of July this year and its promise to implement full tax indexation for 1979-80. The Government has done neither of these things. It has only reduced the surcharge of 1.5c to 1.07c, and tax indexation has been abandoned. 
Why does the Government propose to reduce the surcharge rather than to implement tax indexation? The Treasurer says the reason is that people do not understand tax indexation. Therefore, the Government decided instead just to forget about that and to abolish the surcharge. It proposes to get its increased taxes by not implementing tax indexation. But the whole point of having tax indexation is to stop tax increases by stealth, that is, without people knowing about them. The Government said that it was essential to keep governments honest, and therefore to have tax indexation. Now by abandoning it the Government is being patently dishonest by its own definition. 
The Treasurer, when he says that the people do not understand tax indexation, is really saying, that it is easier to increase taxes by not indexing the tax scales- that is, by being dishonestthan it is to do it openly by way of a tax surcharge. That is what he is really saying when he says that people do not understand tax indexation and that that is the reason the Government did not bother to go on with it. The Treasurer also defended non-tax indexation by saying that there are now only three marginal rates used instead of the seven used previously and that therefore, tax indexation is less important. What arrant nonsense. This shows total confusion of marginal rates of tax with average rates of tax. So long as we have a progressive tax system, whether there are three, seven, fifteen or thirty steps, and there is no indexation the proportion of income tax increases for everyone who pays tax, regardless of his income, so long as there is inflation. The Treasurer is talking absolute rubbish in suggesting otherwise. 
He also asserted that tax indexation would be reintroduced only if wage increases and inflation were low. This is arrantly absurd. If there is no inflation tax indexation is irrelevant. No one needs tax indexation if there is no inflation. The Treasurer says that we can have indexation if there is no inflation but if there is substantial inflation we cannot have tax indexation. However, that is when it is needed. That is when it has some relevance. The Government's whole argument about tax indexation shows tremendous perversity, deviousness and dishonesty. 
I do not have time to go over the utter misrepresentation that the Hayden tax scales would cost taxpayers more than current tax scales as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said time and time again; that matter will have to wait for a subsequent time to be discussed. I must finish up by moving an amendment to this mean and despicable Budget. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the second reading, this House condemns the Fraser Government for presenting a budget which- 
reduces the real living standards of Australian families; 
will increase unemployment to the highest level in the nation's history; 
facilitates and stimulates the recent fresh outbreak of inflation; 
ensures that economic growth will be well below the nation's productive capacity; 
fails to introduce an effective job creation program, particularly for the young; 
savagely reduces the allocation of funds for job training and re-training program; 
will be responsible for the highest level of tax and total revenue collections in the nation's history; 
forces State and local governments either to reduce their services or increase their charges, and 
intensifies the lack of credibility of the Prime Minister and his government and adds to their long list of broken promises'. 
If the members of the Government parties have any integrity at all they will certainly support that amendment. 
-The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  finished his speech by talking about compensation. It is interesting that he should finish on that note. I would have thought that that was one of the last things that any supporter of this Government would want to talk about publicly. The treatment it is giving to Commonwealth employees who are injured and in need of workers compensation is a disgrace. The Government has increased the rate of compensation by 10 per cent in the last four years and left those people way behind the rate of inflation. It has greatly reduced their real standards of living and has provided great troubles and traumas for the people who depend directly on legislation by the Parliament for their standards of living. If honourable members opposite want to talk about compensation let them start by talking about that aspect of it. 
In its anxiety to capitalise on what it sees as the politically populuar tactic of indulging in union bashing at the time of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress, this Government has abandoned all standards of decency. On Tuesday we had the appalling episode of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  vehemently attacking personally the leader of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  while he was attending his mother's funeral. I know that the political debate in this country is pretty rough but apparently we have completely abandoned all standards. We do not declare any truces at any time. Even when a man is in mourning for his mother he becomes the subject of vehement attacks by the Prime Minister and his Minister for Industrial Relations. I think that it was a disgraceful performance on the pan of both of them. Today at 5.30 p.m. the Minister for Industrial Relations made what was supposedly a ministerial statement. It contained not one element of a policy initiative. It was simply an excuse to beat up an issue which the Government sees as being politically popular for it. If the Government wants to debate this issue that is fine by us. We believe that it will come out the loser. 
This Government took office at a time when there was a wages system in this country which was working reasonably well. We had great troubles in establishing wage indexation. We had been through the traumas of the high inflation of 1974 with all other countries in the Western world. The Labor Government responded to those traumas by advocating a wage indexation system so that employees would be assured that there would be some guarantee of maintenance of their real standards of living through the maintenance of their real levels of wages and that they would not have to make substantial wage claims in anticipation of future inflation as the matter would be taken care of by this orderly centralised wage fixation system. That is what this Government inherited. It said that it supported wage indexation. What did the Government do as soon as it took office? It did its very best to sabotage wage indexation. It has been doing so ever since and has been serving this country very badly. It has brought about a situation in which wage indexation is on its knees. The Government is the body responsible for that situation. Wage indexation is an equitable, sensible system to adopt. It should be supported by any Federal government. We have no hesitation in saying that we strongly support a system of quarterly wage indexation. 
As part of the policy of attacking wage indexation, this Government set about a policy of continuous denigration of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Every time the Commission made a decision which did not conform in any way with the Government's policy, which was that there should be no wage increase at all most of the time, it was attacked in the Press and publicly by the Prime Minister and other Ministers. To say the least, this is a rather unusual situation but vigorous attacks on the Arbitration Commission have been a constant pattern in the period of the Fraser Government. The Government's policy also involved non-co-operation with the Commission in respect of the policy decisions it took on increasing prices, on many occasions by way of indirect taxes, and by other measures. The Commission has said time and again that these increases make it more difficult for it to maintain an orderly wage indexation system. This Government has paid no attention to that. It has attacked the Commission every time it has made a decision which it did not like. 
The inevitable result of those policies in forcing the Commission to award much less than full wage indexation has been that the living standards of wage and salary earners in this country have been inexorably reduced. That is something which this Government must face up to. In the real world outside the Parliament a tremendous resentment is building up amongst the wage and salary earners of this country about the fact that their real living standards are being reduced because real wages are being cut. Wages are not keeping up with prices. Taxes are increasing as a proportion of income. Family allowances are being rapidly eroded by inflation and the Government's refusal to adjust them for inflation. Those factors are bearing down on the capacity of families to lead the kinds of lives they have led in the past and to live in the style to which they have been accustomed. Honourable members should forget about improvements; people cannot maintain the standards of living they had in the past under a Labor Government. 
I will give some examples. A person on the average award wage, which in 1978-79 was about $ 1 53 a week, will have a wage increase of 9 per cent this year. That is what the Government forecasts. He will find that his standard of living this year will be 6.6 per cent lower than it was in 1975-76 as a result of the reduction in his real wages, increases in his tax burden and the nonadjustment of family allowances. I assume that such a person would have a couple of children and a dependent spouse. That is a very significant reduction. Where will it end? Has the Government given any indication of when it will stop increasing the proportion of income paid in tax or when it will start the adjustment of family allowances? Has it given any indication of when it will support the maintenance of real wages, let alone increases in wages for productivity? It simply has not done that. Therefore, the future expectation of anyone in this country is not only that his living standard is not likely to be maintained but also that it is likely to continue to fall in the foreseeable future if the Government's policies are maintained. 
At the same time, people know because of the tremendous publicity the practice has been given over the last year or so that many people are ripping off the system. Such people are essentially non-wage and salary earners. Through tax avoidance schemes they have been able to reduce their tax burden greatly whilst their incomes have been increasing far in excess of the rate of increase in wages and salaries. Over the period 1976-77 to 1978-79 the increase in the real incomes of non-wage and salary earners has been double the rate of increase in the incomes of wage and salary earners. But the total tax paid by non-wage and salary earners has decreased by 5 per cent whilst the total tax paid by wage and salary earners has increased by 22 per cent. That indicates tremendous inequity. Those in nonwage and salary sectors are getting twice the rate of increase in their gross wages and paying 5 per cent less tax on that much increased income while wage earners are paying 22 per cent more. Those are the facts. It is the realisation of what is happening which is building up a tremendous resentment and causing pressures for increased wages. This is understandable. 
This sense of injustice is heightened by the fact that the Government has abandoned all pretence of prices justification. We have a body called the Prices Justification Tribunal but essentially it has been deprived of any power to do anything effective about price justification or control. The rationale for these kinds of policies is presumably what has been spelt out at times in the more obscure sections of Budget papers and elsewhere. The Government regards real wages as excessive. It says that they have run ahead of productivity and have reduced profit share and the incentive to invest. This real wage overhang, as it is called- the excessive increase in wages ahead of productivity- is a dubious argument. In most countries there was some increase in wages ahead of productivity in 1974. But there is no natural identification of that with increased unemployment in other countries. In Germany, which had the lowest real wage overhang of any country in the Western world, there was a big rise in unemployment. In Sweden, which had a very large real wage overhang- it was much larger than that in this country- unemployment fell. So how does one make any sense of this real wage overhang argument? Quite clearly no logical argument has been developed on the basis that real wage increases naturally mean increased unemployment. 
In any case, and much more importantly now, the real wage overhang has certainly been eliminated. The continual cutbacks in the real level of wages and the non-application of any increase for productivity have meant that any overhang has disappeared long since. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has accepted that. It said many judgments ago that the real wage overhang, to all intents and purposes, no longer exists. Yet this Government still insists that it must reduce real wages and transfer incomes from wage earners to profits because that is necessary to bring about economic recovery. It says that any wage increase will cause more unemployment. It is quite clearly an absurd argument that any wage increase destroys a job. How is it that in the 1950s and the 1960s when we had almost continuous full employment wage increases did not destroy jobs? If that was the situation then how is it that now when there is no real wage overhang we can say that wage increases mean the destruction of jobs? It is utterly absurd to say that. Yet that is what this Government keeps on saying. 
Of course, the Government wants to cut real wages further in order to depress living standards further. Understandably the trade unions are not going to accept that proposition. That is why we got this tough decision from the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Despite the fact that there is so much unemployment, this decision of the ACTU reasserts its determination to try to get the wage increases which are being denied to workers through the orderly wage fixing process. What else are the trade unions to do? Are they simply to say to their members: 'Do not worry about the fact that your living standards are declining all the time; just lay back and cop it, because that is what you have to do'? It is utterly absurd to expect that to happen. I am quite adamant that the ACTU attitude will have no effect on the rate of increase in job creation in this country, anyway. 
More recently the Government has said: Since indexation has been pushed close to the point of collapse, now we will offer some form of full wage indexation but discount for price increases emanating from government decisions'. What does the Government mean by that, that it would discount for oil price increases, for increases in other indirect taxes, for health costs, for tariff increases, for devaluation? I understand that some suggestion has been put at wage inquiries that it would discount even for beef price increases. After all those things are taken into account, there is almost nothing left. So how can that be any guarantee of wage indexation? If the Government guaranteed to increase wages every six months in line with prices, discounting for all those items I mentioned, there would be practically no increase at all. Quite clearly the unions would reject the proposal out of hand, and they did. One simply could not expect any other response. Any other response would have meant a union official saying to his members: 'We have just got to accept drastically reduced living standards- living standards which will be reduced even more than they have been till now'. One could hardly expect the union members to accept such a proposition. 
The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  called that rejection 'unthinking pigheadedness'. I think that he is the one who is being unthinking and pigheaded to expect the unions to adopt such an unreasonable proposal involving continuous reductions in the real living standards and wages of their members. In arguing for the acceptance of that proposal, he claimed that the certainty of adjustment- that is the way in which he saw it- would remove pressure for unions to go outside the system by taking industrial action. However, as I have said, quite obviously there would be no certainty of adjustment because of all these discountings. If there were full wage indexation, as the Labor Party proposes, without all this discounting, there would be that certainty of adjustment and therefore, on the Minister's own logic, there would be a removal of the pressures to seek inflation compensation outside the system. On the Minister's own logic, full wage indexation would have the effect of preventing this movement outside the system. It would prevent increased industrial disputation and the seeking of increases outside wage indexation. I am glad to see that the Minister, perhaps in a rather roundabout way, is supporting the kind of logic which we put forward for supporting wage indexation. 
There is an alternative to this kind of policy which involves continuous reductions in living standards and which simply is incompatible with economic recovery. If by some miracle the Government could achieve economic recovery it would simply mean that the unions would then seek wage increases and the Government have to clamp down again. So the Government's policy is incompatible with economic recovery. The only alternative to that is the kind of policy which we have proposed- that is, an allembracing policy encompassing prices, nonwage incomes, wages and taxes. The whole matter could then be looked at in terms of after-tax incomes as well as pre-tax incomes. A cooperative prices and incomes policy could be devised with the trade unions. That is the only proposal which is compatible with the restoration of full employment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MartinOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 29 August1 979: 
) What is the total stock of Government housing in the Australian Capital Territory, sub-divided by type. 
How many of these units, by type, were vacant as at the most recent date for which information is available. 
Is there a waiting list for public housing; if so, how many households are on the waiting list. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) How many officials in his Department are working full time on any aspect of disarmament. 
Is his Department contributing financially to the study of any aspect of disarmament by persons in any other organisation; if so, which are the organisations and what sum is being contributed. 
-The Opposition raises this matter of public importance today because we are concerned that an action on the part of the Fraser Government is contributing in no small way to the scandalous developments in Queensland regarding the BjelkePetersen Fund. This is occurring despite the fact that revelations regarding some aspects of the scandalous nature of that fund have been made by members of the . Liberal Party. At the same time we find action or inaction on the part of their federal colleagues in this Parliament resulting in the perpetuation of that scandal and the development of it through the coercion of people into making contributions to the Bjelke-Petersen Fund. This coercion is being applied by means of tax deductibility; that is, the Bjelke-Petersen Fund is being advertised to potential donors as being tax deductible. To this stage we believe that there is every reason to consider that the tax deductibility may well apply to such contributions because this Government has not taken the action necessary to prevent that from occurring. That is of concern to us because we regard this fund as objectionable and scandalous. The Bjelke-Petersen Fund was commenced as we understand it early this year. The objective of the fund was spelt out in a letter which was widely circulated in Queensland by the Queensland State  President  of the National Party,  Sir Robert  Sparkes. In that letter he said in part: 
Incredible though it may seem, despite the fact that our Party is battling to protect the free enterprise system in which individuals and companies have thousands of millions of dollars at stake our capacity to combat the socialists and the communists is impaired by a chronic shortage of funds. 
To overcome this serious financial disability and to pay tribute to Jo Bjelke-Petersen 's outstanding efforts to preserve the free enterprise system, it has been decided to establish the Jo Bjelke-Petersen Foundation. 
The brochure which I left with you explains in some detail the facts concerning the Foundation. Briefly, the intention is that the funds raised by the Foundation would be invested in buildings in carefully selected centres and the net income that is earned would be employed mainly in two ways. 
Firstly, about half would be applied towards the cost of election campaigns. 
Secondly, the balance would be largely used to promote the merits of the free enterprise philosophy and generally enhance the effectiveness of the Party organisation in its struggle to preserve the free enterprise system. 
It is clear from what is said there by the Queensland State President of the National Party that the objective of this fund is blatantly political. 
It is a slush fund, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said. It is to enable the National Party to improve its standing in Queensland. It certainly needs some shoring up. It plans to buy buildings throughout Queensland. For a $100,000 donation - 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
What is the estimated impact on the CPI during 1979-80 of the (a) changes to health insurance arrangements, (b) abolition of the trading stock valuation adjustments, (c) 2 per cent indirect levy on most duty free imports announced on 24 May 1 979 and (d) crude oil levy. 
-by leave- We regard the decision by the Government not to contribute to the Evatt Memorial Foundation to be a rather mean and narrow approach and taken for the wrong reasons. At least, the reasons given are not correct, as I am advised. I am advised that the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that only current members of the Australian Labor Party National Executive are eligible to be members of the Foundation is wrong. The Executive Committee of the Evatt Foundation consists of a number of people who are not members of the Australian Labor Party National Executive as well as a number of people who are. 
A person shall cease to be a member of the Association if he (a) ceases to be a member of the National Executive . . . 
-The Prime Minister has the advantage of me in one respect. I have just been given my copy and he has had one. The original statement made by the Prime Minister - 
It is not a disgrace because we were only advised that this statement was to be made about a quarter of an hour before it was in fact made. If we had been given more time, we would have had all the material available. The  original statement made by the Prime Minister in the speech that he had prepared and brought into the House was that his first reason for the Commonwealth's not giving any donation to this Foundation was that only current members of the Australian Labor Party National Executive were eligible to become members of it. That certainly is not true. 
Furthermore, he says that some of the purposes of the Foundation have particular Labor movement associations. He has not spelled out what he means by that. I assume that what he has in mind is the assumption that because the Evatt Foundation proposes to establish in Canberra a museum and a reference library, both of which will be related to Labor history, and will therefore record a very important part of Australia's national heritage, that is somehow a party-political objective and therefore something that should not be supported by the Commonwealth Government. We do not regard that as being anything like a party-political approach. It is just recording an important part of this nation's heritage, making sure that it is available in a form which would be capable of appreciation and use by people interested in Labor history, and that that is something which is worthwhile retaining. Of course, if the Prime Minister sees it differently, as he apparently does, such donations will not be made, but I must say that the important point is that if the Government takes this approach to the Evatt Foundation, which is patently not a political fund-raising activity at all, but rather one which seeks to record and to revere the name of a very famous Australian, we will have a very sour approach to the Menzies Foundation. We have not approached that in any political way at all, but because of the action of the Government in respect to the Evatt Foundation, I am sure that he will find on the part of people associated with the Australian Labor Party- not just members of Parliament but supporters throughout the country- a rather more sour approach towards the Menzies Foundation than would otherwise have been the case, and I regard that as unfortunate. 
Leave granted. 
CONSTITUTION OF THE HERBERT VERE EVATT MEMORIAL FOUNDATION INCORPORATED 
Name 
The name of the Association shall be HERBERT VERE EVATT MEMORIAL FOUNDATION INCORPORATED ( hereinafter called' the Association '). 
Object 
The basic objects of the Association are: 
to promote and advance education and educational institutions including the provision of scholarships, grants and bursaries 
to aid and assist students, schools, universities and colleges in Australia and overseas 
to promote and assist other educational purposes both in Australia and overseas. 
In addition to the basic objects of the Association the objects and purposes of the Association shall be deemed to include: 
the purchase, taking on lease or in exchange, and the hiring or otherwise acquiring of any real or personal property that may be deemed necessary or convenient for any of the objects or purposes of the Association; 
the buying, selling and supplying of, and dealing in, goods of all kinds; 
the construction, maintenance and alteration of buildings or works necessary or convenient for any of the objects or purposes of the Association; 
) the accepting of any gift, whether subject to a special trust or not, for any one or more of the objects or purposes of the Association; 
the taking of such steps from time to time as the committee or the members in general meeting may deem expedient for the purpose of procuring contributions to the funds of the Association, whether by way of donations, subscriptions or otherwise; 
the printing and publishing of such newspapers, periodicals, books, leaflets or other documents as the committee or the members in general meeting may think desirable for the promotion of the objects and purposes of the Association; 
the borrowing and raising of money in such manner and on such terms as the committee may think fit or as may be approved or directed by resolution passed at a general meeting; and securing the repayment of money so raised or borrowed or the payment of a debt or liability of the Association by giving mortgages, charges or securities upon or over all or any of the real or personal property of the Association; 
h ) the investment of any moneys of the Association not immediately required for any of its objects or purposes in such manner as the committee may from time to time determine; 
the making of gifts, subscriptions or donations to any of the funds, authorities or institutions to which paragraph (a) of subsection (1 ) of section 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, as amended, of the Commonwealth relates. 
) the establishment and support, or aiding in the establishment and support, of associations, institutions, funds, trusts, schemes, and conveniences calculated to benefit servants or past servants of the Association and their dependants, and the granting of pensions, allowances, or other benefits to servants or past servants of the Association and their dependants, and the making of payments towards insurance in relation to any other purposes; 
k ) the establishment and support or aiding in the establishment or support of any other association formed for any of the basic objects of the Association; 
the doing of all such other lawful things as are incidental or conducive to the attainment of the basic objects of the Association or of any of the objects and purposes specified in the foregoing provisions of this sub-rule. 
Members 
The first members of the Association shall be the members of the first Committee. 
The persons eligible to become members of the Association are current members of the Australian Labor Party National Executive. 
Every applicant for membership shall pay an annual subscription of not less than $2.00. 
A person shall cease to be a member of the Association ifhe: 
ceases to be a member of the National Executive 
b ) becomes bankrupt 
becomes of unsound mind 
resigns 
dies. 
Members are not liable to contribute towards the payment of the debts and liabilities of the Association or the costs, charges and expenses of a winding up of the Association. 
Office bearers 
The Office Bearers of the Association shall be: 
a President 
b ) a Deputy President 
a Treasurer 
a Secretary 
a Public Officer (who is a person resident in the Australian Capital Territory) for the purpose of the Associations Incorporation Ordinance. 
Management 
The business and affairs of the Association shall be under the management of the Committee of the Association which shall be elected from financial members and/or persons interested in the advancement of education who are invited by the Australian Labor Party National Executive to become members of the Committee. 
1. The Committee shall include the  President,  Secretary, Treasurer and Public Officer and shall consist of not less than 10 nor more than 20 members. 
Election 
The Committee shall be elected at the Annual General Meeting. 
Re-election 
All members of the Committee shall be eligible for re-election. 
Chairman 
The  President  shall be the  chairman  at any general meeting or special meeting but in the absence of the  President  the  Deputy President  and in the absence of both, a member of the Committee elected by a majority of the Committee present and voting shall be  chairman. 
Quorum 
Five members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. 
Powers of committee 
By Laws 
6. A majority of the Committee shall have power to make and enforce by-laws for the control and management of the Association. 
Conditions and Requirements of Donors 
The Committee shall make such by-laws as it shall deem necessary to carry out the trusts, conditions and requirements of donors as indicated by them when they made a gift or request to the Association. 
Vacancy 
The Committee shall have power from time to time to fill a temporary vacancy occurring in the Committee. 
Patron 
9. The Committee may elect a patron or patrons. 
Common seal 
The seal of the Association shall not be affixed to any instrument except by the authority of a resolution of the Committee, and in the presence of at least two members of the Committee and of the Secretary or such other person as the Committee may appoint for the purpose, and those two members of the Committee and the Secretary or other person as aforesaid shall sign every instrument to which the seal of the Association is so affixed in their presence. 
Auditor 2 1. (a) At each annual general meeting of the Association, the members present shall appoint a person who is not a mem ber or the public officer of the Association as the auditor of the Association. 
A person so appointed shall hold office until the annual general meeting next after that at which he is appointed, and is eligible for re-appointment. 
The first auditor of the Association may be appointed by the committee before the first annual general meeting, and, if so appointed, shall hold office until the first annual general meeting. 
If an appointment is not made at an annual general meeting the Committee shall appoint an auditor of the Association for the then current financial year of the Association. 
If a casual vacancy occurs in the office of auditor during the course of a financial year of the Association, the committee may appoint a person as the auditor and the person so appointed shall hold office until the next succeeding annual general meeting. 
Audit of accounts 22. (a) Once at least in each financial year of the Association, the accounts of the Association shall be examined by the auditor. 
The auditor shall certify as to the correctness of the accounts of the Association and shall report thereon to the members present at the annual general meeting. 
The auditor- 
has a right of access to the accounts, books, records, vouchers and documents of the Association; 
may require from the servants of the Association such information and explanations as may be necessary for the performance of his duties as auditor; 
may employ persons to assist him in investigating the accounts of the Association; and 
may, in relation to the accounts of the Association, examine any member of the committee or any servant of the Association. 
General and special meetings 
Annual Meeting 
The annual general meeting shall be held at such time and place in the second quarter of each year as the Committee shall decide and shall be convened by the secretary. 
Special Meeting 
The secretary at the written request of ten or more members shall call a special meeting of the members which shall have full power to overrule or amend any decision of the Committee or to remove from office and/or replace any member or members of the Committee. 
Financial Year 
The financial year shall close on the 30th day of July in each year. 
Books of Accounts and Records 
Accounts 26. (a) True accounts shall be kept- 
of all sums of money received and expended by the Association and the matter in respect of which the receipt or expenditure takes place; and 
of the property, credits and liabilities of the Association, and subject to any reasonable restrictions as to time and manner of inspecting them that may be imposed by the Association for the time being, these accounts shall be open to the inspection of the members of the Association. 
The Treasurer of the Association shall faithfully keep all general records, accounting books and records of receipt and expenditure connected with the operations and business of the association in such form and manner as the committee may direct. 
The Accounts, books and records referred to in subrules (a) and (b) of this rule shall be kept at the Association 's office or at such other place as the Committee may decide. 
Record of members 
The secretary shall keep a record of members in which shall be entered their names and the amount of their respective membership fee and subscription for each year. 
Record of gifts and donors 
The secretary shall keep an up-to-date record of all gifts and bequests. The record shall contain particulars of all trusts, conditions and requirements (if any) which the donor may have prescribed in the document creating or imposed imposed the time of making the gift or bequest. 
Selection and Removal of Applicants 
Application 
All applications for aid and assistance which are made in the prescribed form shall be considered by the Committee. 
Determination 
Subject to rule 16 above, the majority of the Committee present and voting may determine the allocation of funds for aid and assistance of educational institutions and /or for scholarships, bursaries, grants of money or other assistance for any educational purpose or purposes. 
Alteration of Rules 
Amendment 
These rules may be amended from time to time by a resolution passed by a majority of the members of the association present and voting at a general meeting of the Association of which at least fourteen days' notice in writing specifying the proposed amendment or amendments shall have been given to the members provided that the name of the Association or its objects as stated in rules 2 and 3 above or rule 3 1 below shall not be altered. 
Income and Profits of the Association 
The profits (if any) and other income and property of the Association however derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise by ways of profits to the members or any person claiming through or under them provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the payment in good faith of remuneration to any officers or servants of the Association or to any member thereof or of the Committee or other person in return for any services actually rendered to the Association. 
-The Bill now before the House is a commonplace machinery Bill but it raises important issues in relation to the deficit. I would like to say quite a bit about the deficit after I have dealt with the more technical aspect of the Bill. The Bill provides authority for borrowing necessary to make up the expected deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund during the current financial year. The funds borrowed under this Bill cover much of the overall Budget deficit which is estimated to be $2.2 billion during 1 979-80, of which $ 1 .6 billion is in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The Bill authorises borowings for defence purposes so that the approval ofthe Loan Council is not required. Commonwealth governments have taken the view that borrowings to finance the Commonwealth deficit should not be subject to State government approval. A simple and now traditional procedure for providing adequate legislative authority for borrowing to finance a deficit is through a Loan Act which authorises borrowings for defence purposes, so defence expenditure already approved under an Appropriation Bill can be transferred out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and charged to the Loan Fund. As I said, this is a normal type of machinery piece of legislation. It is clear from what I have said what this Bill is about. It is largely to finance the deficit. 
I would like to deal in some detail with the Government's view of the deficit because clearly, over the last several years, there has been a great deal said in this Parliament and outside it about the nature of the deficit. I think that it is not unfair to say that this Government has an absolute obsession with the deficit. It believes, for various reasons, that reduction in the deficit is a fundamental precondition for economic recovery. The first reason is because of its belief that deficits represent irresponsible financing of Government expenditure, that deficits cause inflation and so lower deficits reduce inflation, that lower deficits enable reduced interest rates, and that lower inflation and interest rates are basic to economic recovery. Those are the basic assumptions of the Government in respect of deficits. 
There are many points that I would like to make. The first point to note is that this Government, which has said so much about the need to reduce the deficit, has been so spectacularly unsuccessful in so doing. The deficits of the Fraser Government have been far higher than the collective deficits of the previous Whitlam Government. If honourable members look at the three years of the Whitlam Government and the three years of the Fraser Government, honourable members will find that of the collective Budget deficits for the full three financial years of both governments the collective deficits of the Fraser Government are 50 per cent higher. For the years 1976-77 to 1978-79 the collective Budget deficits were $9.6 billion. For the previous three years the deficits were $6.4 billion. It is quite clear, on the face of the Budget deficit figures, that the Fraser governments Budget deficits, after three years of government, have been 50 per cent higher than those of the previous Labor Government. That is the result from looking at only the Budget sector. 
If we take into account the non-Budget sector to get the total Commonwealth sector deficit we find an even more spectacular difference. That should be done because this Government has been distorting and misrepresenting the Budget deficit figures by prepayments in the year 1975-76 so that it can load expenditures into a year which it can blame on the Whitlam Government and take them off a year which would be attributable to the Fraser Government. It is doing this by moving various items out of the Budget sector into the non-Budget sector of Commonwealth Government expenditure. The Government has been manipulating the Budget deficit, but despite those substantial manipulations, the fact is that its accumulative Budget deficits for three years have been 50 per cent higher than those of the previous Labor Government. 
If honourable members look at the total Commonwealth sector, which avoids these distortions by playing with what is in the Budget sector and what is outside it, and take the total Commonwealth sector they will find that for the three years of the Labor Government the collective deficits were $6.4 billion. For the three years of the Fraser Government, from 1976-77 to 1978-79, the total deficit was $10.8 billion-69 per cent higher than for the three years of the Labor Government. All of these figures come from page 245 of the Budget Paper No. 1. They are readily verifiable from the tables on that page. It is quite clear that the collective Budgets of the Fraser Government went far higher despite all the rhetoric we have heard about the need to reduce Budget deficits. 
It could be argued that what is relevant is not the actual amount of the deficit, although the Government usually seems to argue that that is very relevant, but rather that one must look at the deficit as a proportion of the gross domestic product. That way it would be seen in the context of the total national production and income. That is fair enough. If one does that one finds that the point still holds that the Fraser Government deficits have been higher than those of the Labor Government. The three years of the Labor Government from 1973-74 to 1975-76, the total Commonwealth sector deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product averaged 3.3 per cent. For the period of the Fraser Government it has averaged 3.9 per cent, again substantially above the figure for the Labor Government. 
If one takes actual money amounts as a percentage of gross domestic product the point still holds that the deficit figure is much higher under Fraser. Even if one takes into account the State and local government sectors, not just the Commonwealth sector, and gets a total government deficit figure for Australia, the point still holds. It is relevant to do that to some degree because this Government has been off-loading expenditures on to State governments and local government authorities, forcing upon them the decision as to whether they will spend moneys on certain projects or not. In one sense one could say what is relevant is this total public sector deficit. For the three years of the Labor Government it averaged 4.6 per cent of the gross domestic product and for the three years of Fraser Government it has averaged 5.5 per cent. Whatever basis one uses one makes the rather remarkable discovery that the Government, which has made so much noise about the need to reduce the deficit, has been so spectacularly unsuccessful in so doing. That I think is a rather interesting opening to the whole discussion on the deficit. 
We acknowledge that high deficits, and especially continuing high deficits, create some problems for economic management. I am not saying deficits do not matter. I want to make that absolutely clear. One of the problems that it creates is simply the cost of servicing the public debt. Interest payments on the public debt this year will be over $2 billion and are estimated to constitute 6.9 per cent of total Budget outlays. However, that must be seen against the fact that 10 years ago in 1969-70 public debt interest payments were 7.4 per cent of total Budget outlays. So this year's level is still below the level of a decade ago. It is interesting to note also that that percentage fell continuously from 1969-70 until 1975-76. So interest payments on the public debt as a proportion of gross domestic product fell year by year during the period of the Labor Government until in 1975-76 it was 4.4 per cent, but since then they have resumed a steady upward path. Now they are back to 6.9 per cent, as I mentioned. 
If a large deficit continued for many years into the future it would become an increasingly large item in the Budget. Clearly that would be undesirable. We would be using more and more of our revenues for payment of interest on our public debt and clearly that would be a highly undesirable procedure. It is said that there can be a difficulty in selling government securities to finance the deficit. We acknowledge that there could well be something in that point. This is sometimes referred to as a stock and flow problem. The Government has the problem of continuing to persuade those who buy government securities not only to hold the government securities that they have but also to take more. The argument goes that continuing high deficits will choke up the financial markets with government paper, and it will become increasingly difficult to get people to hold what they have and take the increasing amounts necessary to finance the higher deficit. However, despite substantial deficits over the last few years it does not seem that this is a great problem at present. Financial institutions are not choked with government paper, as some financial commentators would have us believe they are. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows government securities as a proportion of the assets of financial institutions. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909276_81_0.jpg"></graphic>

Sources: C. of A., Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1978, Budget Paper No. 6; Reserve Bank, Statistical Bulletin, Financial Flow Accounts Supplement, January 1979. 
This table shows the total amount of government securities on issue in Australia- not just Commonwealth Government securities but other government securities as well-for the years 1967-68 to 1976-77 as a proportion of the total assets of financial institutions. The table shows that there was almost a continuous reduction year by year in the percentage that total government securities on issue in Australia represented as a proportion of the total assets of financial institutions. It follows from that that there is now much less pressure on the financial institutions than there was, say, 10 years ago with the much lower proportion of their assets being taken up with government securities than was the case a decade earlier. Although there may be something in this point at some stage, I find it hard to believe that there is something in it at present. It does not seem that financial markets are choked with government paper. Therefore the whole problem about the stock and flow aspects or persuading the financial markets to take up government paper to finance the deficit is a current problem. 
Nevertheless, it is clearly desirable substantially to reduce the deficit. The question therefore is how best to eliminate it. That is what we are really arguing about, not whether continuing high deficits are good. Clearly they create problems if they continue at high levels. The question is: How do we go about eliminating or substantially reducing the deficit. Before considering that it is relevant at this stage to ask why the Fraser Government has been so spectacularly unsuccessful in reducing the size of the deficit despite its axiom of having severe restrictions on various expenditure programs. There are two reasons. Tax avoidance is one reason. It has exploded under the present Government, despite various measures to end specific tax avoidance schemes. At the end of last year the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia acknowledged that tax avoidance had really taken off only in the last two years-that is, in 1977 and 1978. Of course, we have always had tax avoidance but the explosion of it occurred in that quite recent period. 
The figures for the income tax being paid by various groups reveal how true that is. In the years 1976-77 to 1978-79 the total tax paid by pay-as-you-earn taxpayers- essentially wage and salary earners who pay their taxes and who are not able to enter into tax avoidance schemes- increased by 22 per cent. Total tax payments of non pay-as-you-earn taxpayersthose who earn their incomes through dividends, businesses of various kinds, farming et ceterawent down in the same period by 5 per cent. That is a quite extraordinary difference. Wage and salary earners' tax payments went up very substantially and non-wage and salary earners had an absolute reduction in the amount of taxes paid. Company tax receipts also went down by 2 per cent last year. Obviously, tax avoidance has a lot to do with the differences in the trends between the taxes paid by wage and salary earners and those paid by non-wage and salary earners. 
The other important reason for the very high deficits ofthe Fraser Government is that they are essentially the products of recession. If there is a substantial number of unemployed and a recession there is going to be a high deficit level. The expansion of the deficit first occurred in 1974-75 and was the result of the recession. There was only a small deficit in the first full year ofthe Labor Government- 1973-74. The deficit in that year was $293m. If one looks at the domestic budget- that is, excluding overseas transactions and looking only at those transactions in Australia- one finds that there was a domestic surplus of $21 lm that year. After June 1974 unemployment began to rise quite rapidly and therefore the deficit naturally increased. As expected taxation revenue did not eventuate and unemployment increased so expenditure on unemployment benefit increased correspondingly. In addition, in 1974-75 the Government increased expenditure in an attempt to offset the recession. This also added to the deficit for that year. The deficit in 1974-75 blew out to $2.6 billion and subsequent deficits have remained high ever since, despite constant Government rhetoric on the importance of reducing the deficit. 
It is crucial to understand that that is the inevitable result of recession. The more unemployed resources that we have the greater the deficit is going to be. As I have already mentioned, the fact is that so much tax revenue is lost through having people not in work. Not only is income tax lost from wage and salary earners but also company tax is lost because companies are not operating at such high levels and their profits are not so high. The Government also loses sales tax revenue because there are fewer items being bought and there is much more to pay in unemployment benefits. With those two factors- loss of tax revenue and increased expenditure- it is inevitable that there will be a substantial expansion of the deficit. That is what happened in 1974-75, and that is what has happened ever since. It is essentially why, despite all the rhetoric about how we have to reduce the deficit, the Fraser Government has found that at face value its deficits have been 50 per cent higher than those of the Whitlam Government. All this has occurred because the Government has not been able to get rid of recession. 
A measure of this is given by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, which has calculated that if we were to get back to full employment the deficit would totally disappear. It calculated that with current tax and expenditure programs, we could totally eliminate the deficit with a return to full employment. In fact, the Institute went further than that and said that if we got back to full employment by some absolute miracle, given present tax and expenditure programs, we would find that Australia would have not a deficit but a surplus of $3 billion. Of course, that calculation involves various assumptions and may be it is out by a billion or two. But, essentially the point remains that if we could get back to full employment, the deficit would be wiped out 
This is the essential difference in economic policy strategy between the Opposition and the Government. The Opposition says that the way to eliminate the deficit is to move towards full employment; the Government says that we cannot move towards full employment unless the deficit is eliminated. As I will explain later, the very measures taken to eliminate the deficit ensure that we stay in substantial recession; the recession then worsens and a continuing high deficit results. We have this absurd situation of the Government saying that recovery is dependent on reducing the deficit, but measures adopted to reduce the deficit ensure that we move deeper into recession and, of course, that the deficit blows out. In 1977-78 it was found that despite the best efforts of the Government to reduce the deficit, the deficit blew out by 50 per cent. That is an enormous blow-out. The deficit that resulted was 50 per cent higher than the planned deficit because of the fact that recession was higher and tax avoidance also was operating. 
Last year, despite the utterly fortuitous rural boom which generated much higher levels of economic activity than would otherwise have been the case, there was still a 25 per cent blowout of the deficit. Again, that was because of recession and because of tax avoidance. So, in the Opposition's view the Government's policy is pushing the economy into what I have described as a recessionary vortex. That is, that as we move into recession the deficit gets higher. The Government then says that we have to get rid of the deficit so it increases taxes and cuts expenditure programs to reduce the deficit, but all that does is force us into greater levels of recession and higher levels of unemployment, and the deficit blows out again. So, we have these continuing high deficits but more and more unemployment. That is the path Australia has been on, with various minor fluctuations up and down, over the past three and a half years and it is the path on which Australia will continue while present policies are pursued. 
The other point which is relevant is that it has great implications for the tax burden in this country. The Government's policy is increasing the tax burden on the Australian people and this burden is significantly higher under the Fraser Government than it was under the Labor Government. Despite all the rhetoric about how this Government will cut taxes and give people more choices as to how they spend their money, the tax burden is much higher now under the Fraser Government than it was under the Labor Government. I refer honourable members to page 247 of Budget Paper No. 1, on which there is a table headed 'Receipts of Public Authorities as Proportions of GDP'. It shows extraordinarily interesting figures. It shows that for the three years of the Labor Government- 1973-74 to 1975-76- income tax as a proportion of gross domestic product was 15.9 per cent. For the next three years, under the Fraser Government, the average was 16.5 per cent. That takes us up to only the end of last year; it will certainly be much higher in this current year. 
So, there is no doubt that the incidence of income tax, taking total income tax payments as a proportion of gross domestic product, is higher under the Fraser Government than it was under Labor. Of course, that does not take account of the fact that there was all this tax avoidance. If tax avoidance had not been going on, the figure of 16.5 per cent under the Fraser Government would have been rather higher. If we look at all taxes and all receipts received by the Commonwealth Government we find that for the three years of the Labor Government they represented 25.2 per cent of the GDP and for the three years of the Fraser Government they represented 26.5 per cent of the GDP. So again it is substantially higher. If one looks at the total level for all public authorities, taking into account State and local governments, one would find that for the three years of the Labor Government it was 31.6 per cent of GDP and for the three years of the Fraser 
Government, 33.3 per cent. So on any basisincome tax of the Commonwealth Government, total taxes by the Commonwealth Government, total taxes for all government- we find the situation is the same. The tax burden is greater under the present government than it was under the Labor Government. This is the inevitable consequence of the Government's deficit paranoia. Its whole determination is to reduce the deficit first. The means of doing that is to increase taxes, thereby forcing higher levels of taxation on the economy and on the people of Australia, and ensuring that we remain in the levels of substantial recession and high unemployment. So the higher deficits of the Fraser Government are, in large measure, a logical product of the means by which the Government has been seeking to reduce the deficit. The very measures it has used to reduce the deficit have further recessed the economy. The deficit has remained high and the Australian people have been left with a growing tax burden and more and more unemployment. Of course, this year's Budget will reinforce and accentuate that trend. Being a severely contractionary Budget it will certainly ensure that employment and output growth is minimal and there will, therefore, be a tendency for the deficit to blow out again. However, the distinct possibility of a further unbudgeted increase in the crude oil levy, following any rise in prices by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries this year, will have an opposite offsetting effect on the deficit but only at a cost of further increasing the tax burden and further contracting the Australian economy. 
This year's Budget will severely increase the tax burden on Australian taxpayers, even without a further rise in the crude oil levy. Payasyouearn receipts are estimated to rise by 15 per cent compared to wage increases of 9 per cent to 9Vi per cent on which the Budget is estimated. So we have got this large increase in the tax burden again where taxes are up much higher than wages. Overall tax receipts will rise 15.4 per cent compared to 8.9 per cent last year; more than double the rate of increase in the previous year. This large rise in receipts is the major means by which the Government hopes to reduce the deficit. Again the extent to which it does so will be at the expense of more recession and a higher tax burden on Australian taxpayers. We will all be deeper than ever into the recessionary vortex. Apart from explaining why the deficit remains high this analysis also explains why a government that has proclaimed itself the low tax party has become the ever high tax party. It is a logical consequence of its economic strategy and the difficulty of slashing too deeply into public expenditure because the Australian public sector is already very small by international standards. 
So long as the Government continues to pursue its policy of reducing the deficit first, then so long can we expect the tax burden to increase. What makes this Government believe that the deficit reduction is fundamental to economic recovery? There are essentially two answers to that question. One is that it believes its own propaganda. In Opposition it made great political capital about the large deficit that occurred in 1 974-75 when recession hit the Australian economy. It especially attributed our high rate of inflation to the increased deficit in complete contradiction of the facts, and when in government it has continually asserted the need to reduce the deficit in order to overcome inflation. In this regard it should be noted that Australia's inflation rise in the early 1970s occurred when there was almost no deficit at all. Inflation was near its peak before any substantial deficit developed. Inflation reached its peak in March 1975 and then slowly declined as the deficit continued to increase. Now those are the facts of what happened in the period of the Labor Government. Inflation did not come as a result of some enormous increase in the deficit. Inflation preceded the deficit and the deficit is attributable not to inflation but to the fact that we had a very substantial move into recession which has deepened ever since. 
The inflation rate for the 12 months to the June quarter of 1974 was 14.4 per cent. But the Budget was still in domestic surplus at that time. For the first half year of 1974 the domestic surplus, seasonally adjusted at an annual rate, was $2 50m compared with $150m in the previous half year. Yet inflation was accelerating all the time. In the second half of 1974 the domestic deficit began to appear but it only became really large in the first half of 1 975 by which time inflation had already reached its peak. In March 1975, the inflation rate was 17.6 per cent. It then fell notably in the next 12 months so that by March 1976 it was down to 13.4 per cent. The deficit reflecting the continued slump in economic activity had continued to rise. So it is utterly simplistic to attribute our increase in inflation at that time to the deficit. The deficit had little to do with the rate of inflation. On the same point, it is instructive to analyse the situation in other countries, that is, to compare the movements in deficits in other countries and their inflation rates. At this stage, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows deficits and prices in various Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries in the period 1974 to 1978. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909276_85_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This is an extremely interesting table. It shows a general picture for all the countries of increasing deficits but falling inflation rates over the period 1974 to 1978. Most of the countries have a higher deficit than Australia. The deficit figures are all shown as a proportion of the gross domestic product and are taken from standard national accounts produced by the OECD. They show that Australia had a surplus in 1974 when the inflation rate was at its highest. Over the period from then, the deficit has continued to rise, but the inflation rate has continued to fall. In Austria, there has been the same pattern as Australia, but it has a much larger deficit and a much lower inflation rate. The situation in Canada is similar to Austria. In Germany, there is a higher deficit than ours, but the inflation rate is far below ours. In Japan there is a much higher deficit but a much lower inflation rate. It is the same picture in the Netherlands. In Sweden there is a smaller deficit than we had in 1978, but a higher rate of inflation. 
That is just a quick summation of what this table shows. It shows quite clearly that there is no discernable relationship between the size of the deficit and the rate of inflation. It is clear from our own history and from the experience of other countries that there is no discernable association between deficits and inflation. I hasten to add that this is not to say that they are irrelevant to inflation. Clearly they are one of the relevant factors, but that is all that they are. The deficit is clearly not the determinant fact in regard to inflation that some financial commentators and this Government would have us believe. I believe that it is tremendously important for members of this Parliament to understand that point. There have been so many misrepresentations made about it. The fact of the situation is that the relationship between inflation and deficits is simply nothing like what the Government would have the people of this country believe. The whole premise of the Government's economic policy, which hinges on this assumption of the tight relationship, is shown to be totally false when one analyses not only our own history but also the history of other countries. 
Various economic arguments have been put forward as a rationalisation for this supposed link between the need to reduce the deficit as a means of reducing inflation and thereby bringing about some form of non-inflationary economic growth. The Treasury has argued in the detailed Budget Papers and in a published article by its head,  Mr Stone,  and some financial commentators, that deficit reduction is important and essential to economic recovery. In so doing, it is admitted by those who hold to this argument that the long accepted analysis from Keynesian economics that a deficit increase through reduced taxes or increased government expenditure would have stimulatory effects on the economy and conversely that a deficit reduction by tax rises or an expenditure cut would have contractionary effects on the economy. They say that that is correct in the short term; so, it is accepted. It is accepted by those who put forward this argument that we need to slash the deficit first. Nevertheless the Keynesian argument is that doing that will have contractionary effects in the short term because we will take money out of the economy by reducing government expenditure or increasing taxes and this will tend to reduce economic activity. What they try to sayunfortunately, time is running out on me- is that there is a whole array of expectations in the economy which will offset that recessionary Keynesian factor and bring about some form of stimulus. They have never shown anything to prove that. 
There is no economic analysis, econometrics or any other form which I know of which supports that except very shaky assumptions related to the supposed expectations of business, consumers, wage earners and the economy generally. I believe that those expectations are falsely assumed by the Government and the Treasury. I suggest that if we are to get back to some form of economic recovery in this country we need a complete change of economic approach and we need to break this paranoia with the deficit. We need instead to have stimulatory economic policies which, by bringing about economic recovery, will in the end bring about the abolition of the deficit. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What proportion of the production costs of the manufacturing sector are employment costs. 
What proportion of total production costs are due to the pay (including cash, prerequisites and allowances) of managerial, executive and other staff not employed under awards. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What proportion of the production costs of banking and insurance are employment costs; 
What proportion of total production costs are due to the pay (including cash, perquisites and allowances) of 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
I ) What proportion of the production costs of retailing are employment costs; 
What proportion of total production costs are due to the pay (including cash, perquisites and allowances) of managerial, executive and other staff not employed under awards. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What proportion of the production costs of mining are employment costs. 
What proportion of total production costs are due to the pay (including cash, perquisites and allowances) of managerial, executive and other staff not employed under awards. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Is any income earned by an unemployed person over $6 a week confiscated through an equal reduction in unemployment benefit. 
Does this confiscation have any effect on the incentive for unemployed persons to seek part time or casual work. 
Would the incentive for unemployed people to seek pan-time or casual work be increased if the income limit was raised to at least $20 per week. (l)and(2)- 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What was the turnover, average employment, and net value added by production at the Government-owned factory, Cement Products, in Canberra during each of the last 5 financial years. 
What was the value of sales and costs of production at the factory during the last 5 years. 
3 ) For what reasons was the factory closed. 
Was suitable alternative employment found for all employees at the factory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
What are the current poverty line incomes, calculated using the factors recommended in the Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty (the Henderson Report), for households in which the head is (a) in the work force and (b) not working, for a (i) single person, (ii) married couple, (iii) couple plus one child, (iv) couple plus 2 children, (v) couple plus 3 children, (vi) couple plus 4 children, (vii) single parent plus one child, (viii) single parent plus 2 children, (ix) single parent plus 3 children and (x) single parent plus 4 children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
Further to the Minister's answers to questions Nos 952 and 953 (Hansard, 8 June 1978, page 3390 and 23 May 1978, page 2369), has a site yet been chosen for a rehabilitation centre in the western region of Melbourne; if so, (a) what stage has planning of the additional services referred to reached and ( b) what is the expected date of commencement of operation of the service. 
I direct my question to the Acting Treasurer. The question relates to the recent moves by the United States Federal Reserve Board to reduce sharply the rate of growth in the money supply and to increase interest rates. Does the Acting Treasurer expect that this action will result in increased private capital outflows from Australia, with consequential balance of payments problems and a reduced rate of growth in the money supply? Is it a fact that already there has been an increase in higher interest rates in Australia as reflected in the bank bill rate? What steps, if any, is the Government taking to prevent these overseas events from precipitating a general increase in interest rates or a credit squeeze in Australia? 
-The Bill now before the House involves two amendments to the Local Government (Personal Income Tax 
Sharing) Act 1976. The first amendment increases the annual percentage of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. The other amendment enables periodic reviews by the Commonwealth Grants Commission of the relative State shares of the total funds allocated to local government under the tax sharing arrangements. The background of the Bill is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised in his 1977 election speech to lift the share of personal income tax collections provided to local government authorities from 1 .52 per cent to 2 per cent within three years. Last year nothing was done towards fulfilling this objective. One wonders whether this undertaking was going the way of other innumerable election promises. However, in the second year of the three years some progress has been made towards this target. 
The speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in introducing this Bill contains several severely distorting misrepresentations. At no point did he acknowledge that the consequence for local government of the Government's federalism policy has been a slash in payments to local government. Indeed, he tried to give exactly the opposite impression, as he did also in a reply to a question supposedly without notice on 13 September. The fact is that the real level of funds for local government has been severely reduced by this Government since it came into office. In 1975-76 total payments to local government authorities by the Commonwealth were $345m. In 1976-77, the first year in which the Fraser Government decided the allocation, this allocation from the Commonwealth to local government was reduced to $277m, some $70m less than the amount for the previous year, and in real terms a reduction of 28 per cent. The principal reasons for the severe reduction were the cessation of grants for employment programs, the ending of various urban development programs such as the area improvement program, and the winding back of the national sewerage programs. 
All those programs were of great benefit to local government. The Regional Employment Development Scheme was much criticised at the time, but it was an important program in terms of both providing necessary jobs at a time of considerable unemployment and assisting local government to achieve the fulfilment of projects which ordinary funding did not allow to be undertaken. So it had that dual advantage. Despite the Opposition's criticism of the RED scheme it was indeed a very helpful scheme for local government. It is interesting to see that only today the Municipal Association of Victoria was reported as calling for the restoration of the RED scheme or for the introduction of a similar scheme. I think that is highly significant. Local government is being squeezed for funds by this Government, as I will demonstrate clearly in a moment, and it realises the enormous benefits in terms of looking after the unemployed. Grants to local councils enable them to employ people on worthwhile local projects. 
The area improvement program is an example of some of the urban development programs which have been cut off by the Fraser Government. That was an extraordinarily beneficial program as it did not cost a great deal of money- for the areas in which it applied which were basically the western suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney, both of which are very deprived areas. As my electorate is in the western suburbs of Melbourne, the so-called deprived west, I am very much aware of the benefit that that program had in improving the area, not only aesthetically through such things as tree planting programs, but also in terms of recreation facilities of all kinds in the area and making it a more tolerable place in which to live. The national sewerage program was a tremendously beneficial program for outer suburban areas, quite clearly increasing the standard of living of those who benefited from it. Its cut back is to be deplored. So in the first year of the Fraser Government we had substantial cut-backs in worthwhile programs and that meant that we had a substantial cut-back in total funding to local government. The Treasurer claimed in his second reading speech: 
One of the aims of the Government's Federalism policy is that State governments and local authorities should have maximum independence and flexibility in determining their priorities and carrying out their functions. 
How can they possibly have maximum independence when the funds made available to them are so sharply reduced? Throughout the last four years, including the current financial year, funds from the Commonwealth to local government have remained for below the 1975-76 real level. In 1979-80, the current financial year, the real value of Commonwealth Government payments to or for local government authorities is budgeted to be 20 per cent less than in 1 975-76, the last year of the Labor Government. That is, the purchasing power of funds made available to local government by the Commonwealth will be one-fifth lower this year than four years ago. That is a clear example of what the Government's new federalism policy really means. In reality, new federalism is an attack on State and local government. The Prime Minister and his ministry apparently have a doctrinaire belief that no matter what the value of services provided for State and local government, the resources used for providing those services should be reduced. 
It is a reasonable development that more of the total Commonwealth payments to local government should be in the form of general purpose or untied payments which local government can use as it wishes. We support that tendency which began in 1974 because it should facilitate the growth of autonomy for local government. But that is of little consequence if the total payments to local government are being reduced, because local government then has no flexibility in deciding how to use the funds. All funds have to be used for simply maintaining existing services insofar as that is possible. It is important to look more closely at the situation. This estimated 20 per cent real fall in total Commonwealth payments to local government over the last four years assumes that this financial year $ 133.5m will be made available through the States for roads. This assumption has to be made because the actual allocation is decided by the States since the Commonwealth makes block grants to the States for roads and the States then decide what proportion of that grant they will make to local government for it to expend on roads. On the basis of an increase of 7.5 per cent on last year's allocation, which is the generally indexed amount for roads this year, the figure of $ 133.5m seems to be a reasonable estimate. If we therefore make that estimate for the expenditure on roads this year, we see what the total payments by the Commonwealth to local government authorities in this country will be this year. That is an amount of $383,409,000 which, as I said, will be 20 per cent less in real terms than the 1975-76 allocation. At this stage I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows Commonwealth Government payments to or for local government authorities for the years 1975-76 to 1979-80. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_48_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The table shows the total payments year by year, the payments as a proportion of income tax receipts in the previous year, total payments at 1975-76 prices in each year and the percentage change in the real allocation since 1975-76. If we look at total payments as a proportion of income tax receipts we see that in 1975-76 total payments to local government from the Commonwealth represented 4.5 per cent of income tax receipts in the previous year but that this year, 1979-80, total payments will represent only 3 per cent. That is a very substantial reduction. Indeed, in two of the preceding years the proportion was less than 3 per cent. It is up slightly this year as a result of the increase in the proportion of the revenue-sharing grant from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent, which is included in the Bill now before the House. In terms of the proportion of income tax, which is one way of measuring the size of the grant, it is down considerably on what it was under the Labor Government. Then we see that in the first year of the Fraser Government there was a 28 per cent reduction in real terms and that this year the reduction represents 20 per cent. 
As I mentioned, those figures include an estimate of the amounts which will be made available to local government for roads. If we exclude roads from the total payments, other Commonwealth Government payments to local government this year are budgeted to be $249m. This is less in absolute terms than the funds made available in 1975-76, which amounted to $270m. So this year, if one leaves aside roads, the total payments by the Commonwealth to local government for all other items in absolute money terms are some $2 1 m less than they were in 1 975-76. In real terms that represents a fall of one-third. That is, the purchasing power of Commonwealth Government payments to or for local government authorities, excluding payments for roads, will be 33 per cent lower this year than it was in 1 975-76. 1 seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the Commonwealth Government payments to or for local government authorities excluding payments for roads. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_48_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. I will not go through this table in detail. It is compiled similarly to the previous table and shows total payments as a percentage of income tax receipts in the previous year for each of the four years involved and shows the movements in the real size of the allocation, excluding the allocation for roads. As I have mentioned, this year there is a 33.3 per cent reduction in the allocation compared with the allocation in the last year of the Labor Government. Even if we exclude the allocation for the Regional Employment Development Scheme, which of course was a substantial payment to local government in 1975-76, and look just at the rest of the allocation, we see that total Commonwealth payments to local government in the period from 1975-76 to 1979-80 increased by only 8.9 per cent compared with an inflation rate of some 39 per cent. If we exclude the allocation for roads and the Regional Employment Development Scheme, we see that in actual money terms there has been a rise of only 2.4 per cent in that time. Of course, if one takes account of inflation that represents a very substantial reduction indeed. There can be no doubt from these figures that contrary to the myth which is perpetrated by the Treasurer and other Government spokesmen about the benefits of new federalism for local government, the reality is that there has been a substantial reduction in the real value of payments to local government by this Federal Government. There is no gainsaying that fact. 
This has a very important impact on local government. It means that as assistance from the Commonwealth to local government is being reduced, local government is being forced back to its own resources and, therefore, it has to reduce services or increase its own revenue raising potential- that is, it has to increase local government rates. As all honourable members know, local government rates are a substantial imposition on people- particularly low income home owners- and it is an undesirable trend for there to be a continuing rapid rise in the level of those rates. That is what this Government's policies are forcing on local government. If Commonwealth Government payments to the States for local government are continually cut back, it is inevitable that they will have to increase rates at a considerable pace, and they also will have to chop back services which they otherwise would have wanted to provide. Over the period 1975-76 to 1977-78-1 could not get figures for later years- the total amount of local government rate revenue increased by 27.5 per cent in just two years. That 27.5 per cent increase in two years of rate revenue gathered by local government was forced on it by the fact that there has been this substantial cut back in assistance from the Federal Government. 
In his second reading speech, the Treasurer forgot to make any mention of the total funds made available to local government. He talked only about general revenue grants. Even here he made a mistake, when he claimed that general revenue funds increased by 145 per cent in the three years to 1978-79. As the Budget Papers show, that general purpose assistance for local government increased by 125 per cent, which is rather less than what the Treasurer claimed. It is true that the Treasurer has noted his mistake in this House since then- a mistake which my office drew to the attention of his Department. Also in his second reading speech the Treasurer says that the increase in 1979-80 will be 26.3 per cent, but he neglects to mention that the real value of this increase, even on a conservative estimate of the rate of increase of the public sector deflator of 8.5 per cent, involves a figure of only 13.9 per cent. It is simply deceptive misrepresentation to describe this increase in funds only in money terms, and it is a neglect to mention the effects of inflation in eroding the real value of those funds. 
Another aspect of the Government's new federalism policy which is disturbing in its effects on local government is that local government shares only in income tax receipts, not in total tax receipts. Total budgeted tax receipts are higher this financial year as a proportion of gross domestic product than in any other year during the last decade. This year the Government will receive 24 per cent of national income as tax receipts, compared with an average 22.7 per cent during the three years of the Labor Government. However, there is a danger for local government that it may not share in this higher tax revenue in future because the Government claims that it wants to reduce the proportion of income tax in total tax. In fact, last year there was a slight fall in the percentage of that income tax comprised of total tax, due of course to the sharp rise in indirect taxation through the crude oil levy. It is for this reason that the Labor Party's platform undertakes to ensure that in any year in which the real value of Federal net personal income tax collections declines, a Labor Government would maintain the real value of a two per cent share of personal income tax receipts for local government. 
Local government would be quite justified in being critical of the approach of the Fraser Government. The fixed proportion of personal tax revenue would not provide as much real revenue for local government as some other system which considered need and allowed for cost inflation and real growth, along the lines of the Whitlam formula for the States. Perhaps there would be value in involving the Commonwealth Grants Commission in a regular review of this kind. 
The second part of this Bill is simply a machinery amendment. The present Act could be interpreted as providing for one review only of the proportional distribution between the States of the tax sharing funds for local government. One such review by the Grants Commission was made in 1976. Therefore, the Bill is being amended to make it clear that the question of the distribution of tax sharing funds for local government between the States can again be referred to the Grants Commission. Presumably, this amendment is being moved because of Government uncertainty about how to distribute funds for local government among the States. The Grants Commission special report on financial assistance for local government, presented in May to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay),  recommends that funds be distributed simply on the basis of population, and that this approach be maintained for several years. The Grants Commission does not want to have to review regularly the basis on which funds are allocated to the States. It wants a stable basis which provides predictability to the States and local governments. 
Apparently the Government has not been able to make up its mind about this proposal. It would clearly have some disadvantages; some States would lose and some would gain. The conflict is intensified when total Commonwealth funds for local government have been so sharply reduced. Although the Grants Commission's proposal has the advantage of simplicity, it gives too little weight to equity. Greater attention should be given to needs. The Commonwealth Government must quickly make a decision so that State grants commissions can get on with the job of deciding on an equitable distribution of their allocation for local government bodies in the States. The present basis of distribution by State grants commissions involves not less than 30 per cent of total funds being allocated amongst local government authorities on a population basis, the remainder being allocated on a needs basis. 
Given the significance of many aspects of needs, such as differences in revenue raising potential and differences in existing facilities, in demography, topography and geography, this proportion must not be raised. Indeed, in the Opposition's view it would be quite wrong to increase this allocation of funds on a per capita basis because the higher that that proportion becomes the less that is available for distribution on a needs basis. It is the Opposition's view that there should be a very considerable allocation on a needs basis because it is the councils which cover areas of low income which have the greatest problems as well as the least potential for raising revenue. It is therefore highly desirable that a large proportion of this Commonwealth Government assistance to local government comes in this form of a needs allocation. There would be good case for making this per capita distribution not more than 30 per cent of total funds rather than the present provision of not less than 30 per cent of total funds. 
The Opposition does not oppose either of the amendments proposed in this BUI. However, it is disturbed that for the fourth year the Government has decided to continue to depress funds made available to local government. There is a severe imbalance in local government finance. On the one hand, local government has only one main source of tax revenue- rates- and on the other hand, the services expected from local government have been increasing. Many local government services are particularly labour intensive so that, when their funds are reduced, the number of people whom they can employ is also directly reduced. In June 1975, local government employed a total of 141,000 people. By June 1979, local government employment had fallen to 127,500. That is to say, as a direct effect of the Commonwealth's severe reduction in the funds made available to local government, there has been a decline of 13,500 in the number of people employed by local government. 
Earlier this year the annual conference of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations passed a number of resolutions supporting the concept of the establishment of unemployment relief schemes. The Council prepared a detailed proposal, at the Government's suggestion, and sent it to the Government. Not only did the Government take no action on the suggestion but, in the last Budget, it severely cut the funds for the existing inadequate employment programs. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations ' proposals draw attention to the needs of the adult unemployed. The Council stated: 
Without in any way wishing to play down the especially urgent and worrying aspects of the significant numbers of unemployed juniors, Local Government believes that Governments must take concrete steps to improve work prospects for the 54 per cent of total unemployed who fall into the adult range. Many of these unemployed adults are financially responsible for an entire household. Consequently, the impact of being without work for the adult breadwinner would be greater than for many juniors especially those young people with the financial and emotional support of their own families. 
The Council 's proposal went on to note:  that in most communities throughout Australia, there are pressing needs for public works programs and community services which are unlikely to be met in the foreseeable future from the resources of local councils or voluntary service groups. 
The proposed funding for the scheme is 50 per cent from the Commonwealth, 30 per cent from the States and 20 per cent from the sponsoring local authority. The scheme would involve local government authorities submitting projects to State and Commonwealth co-ordinating committees, which would evaluate the projects in the light of criteria which the Council suggests. The detail has been prepared with considerable care. This is a refreshing and responsible proposal by local government. The Council of Local Government Associations must be disappointed with the complete neglect of the proposal by the present Government. However, the ideas will be of value to the next Labor Government for, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has said several times, Labor is committed to the introduction of a new employment program. Such programs are used in most industrialised countries. They are a minimal response of any government genuinely concerned about unemployment. As I mentioned earlier, the Municipal Association of Victoria only yesterday called for the restoration of the Regional Employment Development Scheme as a further demonstration of local government's concern about the need for such funding. 
Local government services are essential to the wellbeing of the community. As well as the traditional local government services, in the last couple of decades many services have been added which are very important to particular groups of people. Child care centres, welfare services, senior citizens' centres, various recreational facilities and public libraries are vital in supporting people at particularly vulnerable times of their lives or in ensuring more satisfying leisure activity. Such services are best provided by local government which is attuned to the needs of local communities. Viewed in this light, the Commonwealth's arbitrary attack on local government finance is inhuman. Doctrine is more important than compassion for this Government. There is a real danger not only that local government will be forced to restrain severely growth of community services such as education, welfare, recreation and cultural activities, but also that public works of various kinds will be allowed to deteriorate. Professor Henderson's Committee of Inquiry into Poverty has recently reported: 
It is clear that in countries where welfare services are advanced- England, Holland, Sweden and Denmark, for instance- local councils are playing a more and more important and responsible part in the process. 
This involvement is natural because local government is close to people. The report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration stated: 
There is a clear advantage in using local Government bodies in many areas since in administering their own locally based programs they are likely to develop a more intimate understanding of the needs and demands of the local people than is possible for a centrally based administration. 
For this reason the Labor Party platform adopted at the recent Adelaide national conference stated: 
In addition to its commitment to general revenue assistance and by revenue sharing, Labor is committed to assisting local Government by special purpose grants to be allocated on a needs basis. These grants will absorb a number of existing special purpose grants into a series of broadly based grants with greater discretion at the local level. These special purpose grants will give priority to regional and community development activities, and programs to alleviate the growing unemployment problem. 
Many innovative schemes were introduced by the Labor Government and by local governments. Since 1975 these schemes have been cut back or even abolished and no new programs have been introduced. Yet the need in the employment area in particular is increasingly desperate. Labor, when in government, took a number of important initiatives to lift the powers and financial resources of local government. This orientation is continuing. For example our platform emphasises that the next Labor Government 'will seek the support of local government for the inclusion of a local government representative on the Loan Council and for power of the Australian Government to borrow on its behalf. There is a need for clearer definitions of the authority and responsibilities of local government. Perhaps the report following the current study by the Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations will assist in this task. 
Under the present Fraser Government concern for local government has plummeted. Financial support has fallen. Little ministerial consideration has been given to local government. The emphasis has been on cutting back, dismantling and reducing rather than on responding intelligently to the needs of local communities. The Government has talked of setting up a unit within the Public Service to work with local government. Despite the announcement of setting up such a body there is no evidence that anything has been done. 
A change from the present negativism and lethargy is required. The Commonwealth and local government together should be seeking cost-effective means of responding to the needs of local communities. Much of the initiative should come from local government. The role of the Commonwealth is to assist local government and to facilitate to the maximum extent possible the realisation of the aims of local communities in achieving a more fulfilling life for their members. An aspect of this is finding ways of increasing the financial resources of local government. This Bill is a mean response to that objective. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Australian Industries Development Association that the timing of the investment allowance created a bank-up of orders prior to June 1978 which has led to an increased reliance on overseas suppliers of capital equipment; if so, is there any substance in this statement. 
How much of the increased imports of capital goods during (a) 1977-78 and (b) 1978-79 are estimated to have been due to the timing of the investment allowance. 
-Almost two years ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a statement to this House announcing his decision to hold an early election proclaimed: 
. there is now indisputable evidence that we are winning the fight against inflation. 
Today, two years later, there is indisputable evidence that the rate of inflation is increasing and that it is doing so largely as a result of policies and decisions of this Government. Firstly, let me look at the prime evidence of the increasing rate of inflation. Today the September quarter figures for the consumer price index have been released. They show a quarterly rise of 2.3 per cent or an annual rise from 8.8 per cent in June to 9.2 per cent in the September quarter. So we are heading back towards double digit inflation. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said today in his public statement outside this House on this matter that he was surprised at how low that figure was and that he expects it to be much higher for the December quarter. Quite clearly he is admitting that the rate of inflation is moving upwards. Indeed, the Budget is predicated on the assumption that there will be a 10 per cent plus rate of inflation this year. 
If we look behind the overall figures at consumer price index figures released today we see that it is even more alarming to note that, excluding the hospital and medical charges, the rate of increase over the last 12 months has been 1 1 per cent, which is very substantial. This is an important indicator because the figures for the hospital and medical section of the consumer price index were artificially reduced by the measures taken in last year's Budget. This year the reverse situation applies. There have been substantial increases in hospital charges and the abolition of subsidy on medical costs of less than $20. There will be a reverse impact this year which will show up in a large increase in the consumer price index because of the health charges for the December quarter of this year. But we have not felt the effects of that yet. 
The most dramatic rises over the past year, according to the figures released today, have been in tobacco and alcohol. The prices are up 19.8 per cent. The increases are almost totally attributable to the actions by this Government in last year's Budget when there were very substantial increases in taxes on tobacco and alcohol. The second largest increases were in food prices which admittedly are largely outside Government control although one wonders what the Government is doing about the report from the Prices Justification Tribunal on processed foods which it has had for some time. If there is anything in that report, one would have hoped that the Government would have acted on it rather more promptly. The third largest increase is in the area of transportation. This is due mainly to the petrol price rise, and again it is almost totally attributable to the Government's policies. So we see that the increases in at least two of the three main areas are attributable to Government action over the past year. 
Apart from the consumer price index increase and the sort of prime evidence of the rising rate of inflation, there are also various indicators of an underlying rate of inflation. The price index of materials used in manufacturing is one of these underlying evidences. It shows that over the year to July 1979- the latest figures available- prices are up by  36i  per cent, which is an extraordinary rate of increase. It is three times the rate of a year ago. Looking within that component to the break-up between imported materials and home produced materials, imported materials are up by 24.1 per cent over the last year, but home produced materials are up by 42.6 per cent- an extraordinary rate of increase. As to the price index of materials produced by manufacturing industry, in the year to August 1979- again, the latest period available- prices are up by 16.7 per cent, which is twice the rate of a year ago and is the largest annual rise for four years. The cost of building materials in the housing area in the year to September increased by 1 1 .4 per cent, which is double the rate of a year ago. For building materials in other than the housing industry, in the year to September prices have risen by 1 1.7 per cent- almost double the level of a year ago. 
So there is strong evidence of rapidly developing inflation, As I mentioned previously, the Government admits that this year's inflation rate will be over 10 per cent and that the rate for the December quarter will be high. But it disclaims any responsibility for that. The fact is that the resurgence of inflation in Australia is overwhelmingly due to this Government's actions in raising prices. We submit that that is an indisputable fact. If one looks at the causes of inflation, that comes out absolutely clearly. I have already mentioned food prices and I set that to one side. 
Let us look at things like the crude oil price rise. The reason that crude oil prices have increased so rapidly in this country is overwhelmingly a decision taken by this Government at the time of last year's Budget to move immediately to import parity for the pricing of Australian-produced crude oil rather than to take the various successive steps which previous policy indicated was the way in which the Government would move towards import parity. Instead, the Government took it all in one jump so that there was a very substantial increase, both in the revenue raised by the crude oil levy and in the price effects of that decision. The revenue effects were absolutely startling. In two years the crude oil levy went from $480m to $2,060m, which is the projected figure for this year, not allowing for any further increases which might occur should there be a further rise in crude oil prices, as seems almost inevitable now. 
Added to that are these enormous price effects. If one looks at the price of materials used by manufacturers, one sees that the prices of electricity, gas and fuel rose by 53.3 per cent in the last year. This indicates the enormous impact that the increase in oil prices has had on producer prices. I repeat that there was a 53.3 per cent increase in prices in the electricity, gas and fuel sector as shown in the index of prices of materials used by manufacturers. Turning to the prices paid by motorists in Australia at the pump, the prices increased by something like an average of two-thirds. There has been quite a dramatic rise in the price of petrol paid by motorists in the past year. Let us look at the consumer price index to see what effect that has been having. Figures published by the Australian Statistician show that the direct impact on the CPI has been a 1.7 per cent increase over the past 12 months directly attributable to the increased price of petrol as shown up in the CPI figures; of course, more will show up in the December quarter. That 1.7 per cent increase represents 18 per cent of the total CPI rise in the last year. 
They are only the direct effects. There are, of course, indirect effects and everyone, even the Government, admits that there will be indirect effects because the price of petrol feeds into almost everything- increasing transport costs, therefore increasing the cost of carting goods and people. Apart from the petrol price increase, the price of goods and services will increase. Various estimates have been made of the extent to which those indirect effects will accentuate the overall effect of petrol price rises. They range from something in the order of 55 per cent to 100 per cent. Let us settle on about two-thirds. If one does that, then the petrol price rise would have increased the total CPI by about 2.8 per cent in the last year; that is, some 30 per cent of the total increase in the CPI is attributable to the increasing price of petrol in that period. As I mentioned earlier, there are further rises to come. In the last week or so increases have occurred in the price of petrol charged by many members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, with the petroleum Minister for Saudi Arabia, Sheik Yamani, saying that the whole thing is running out of control. Quite clearly in that situation there will be considerable pressure on Saudi Arabia, the most stable of the producers, to increase its prices. 
So we must expect a general increase in OPEC prices and under this Government's policy, that means there will be almost an automatic flow-on of that price increase to the price of Australianproduced crude oil, not because it is necessarily so, not because we have to do it, but because of this Government's policy that that should be done. Therefore the Government will be importing inflation in this way, as a direct policy decision to do so, not because it is inevitable. To the extent that we import petroleum or crude oil that price  effect  of course has to come through. But to the extent that it is Australian-produced, and 70 per cent of it is Australian produced- 90 per cent of our petroleum is from Australian crude oilthen we do not have to pass on the price rise in the way that this Government is doing. The price rise is not something which is inevitable, which is forced on the Government; it is a deliberate policy decision, and one which runs totally counter to this Government's supposed basic policy of fighting inflation first. 
Let us look at tobacco and alcohol. The increases in excise on tobacco and alcohol in last year's Budget increased the consumer price index by  Vi  per cent- an increase directly attributable to this Government. Health costs were certainly reduced in last year's CPI figure for December because of the measures taken in last year's Budget, but as I have mentioned that is totally reversed this year and this December we must expect a substantial rise. We have calculated that rise at something like 1  Vi  per cent including the 0.2 per cent attributable to increased doctors' fees. But there have been other measures as well. This Government, which is supposed to be fighting inflation first, has taken other measures such as the 2 per cent duty on imported items which were previously duty free. The duty was announced in the mini-Budget this year. That mainly affects producer imported materials and therefore increases the cost of production in Australia directly and feeds right through in to the ultimate price of goods and services, particularly goods, and therefore increases the rate of inflation 
The increased tariff on imports subject to quota announced in last year's Budget had a similar effect. It was supposed to rake off some monopoly profit but in fact it meant higher prices being charged by those who held the quotas because there is no price control- the Prices Justification Tribunal is useless- and therefore inflation increased. Devaluation over the last three years has been some 20 per cent and that means higher prices for imported products and therefore more inflation as a result of the decisions taken by this Government. It is undoubted that recent government measures have had a large impact on inflation and that they have increased it considerably. Yet the Government consistently claims that all this amounts to a policy of fighting inflation. If so, it is a curious way of doing it. This Government has invented a whole new way of fighting inflation by increasing prices. It is an absurd and ridiculous policy to fight inflation by increasing prices. I am sure most people in Australia would be staggered to realise that this is the' Government's policy and that it is a policy of fighting inflation by a stream of decisions which have the impact of increasing prices and the rate of inflation in this country. Yet, the Government holds this up as some marvellous anti-inflationary policy. It is not an inflationary policy, it is a policy which stems from this Government's obsession with the deficit and it sees anything which increases the deficit as automatically inflationary. What the Government does not seem to realise is that the string of measures it is taking to reduce the deficit in fact is having the effect of increasing inflation, therefore increasing inflation expectations in the community and therefore making it less likely that we will break out of the inflationary or stagflationary bind in which the Government has so securely put the economy in the last few years. 
It is quite clear that this whole policy of deficit obsession is leading to this ever-increasing policy of more and more inflationary measures. I have already mentioned that in addition the Government has destroyed the PJT as having any likely impact on the rate of inflation. I suppose that the Government would say that at least it is doing something about wages and that wages are the basic cause of inflation. I guess that that is what the Treasurer will say. But are wages the basic cause of inflation at present? Let me quote a good authority on this subject who was asked recently about wages and inflation. I quote from the  Australian  of 18 August 1979. He said: 
I suppose wages have been in a sense neutral in terms of their effect on inflation. 
My authority for that quotation is none other than the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said that wages have a neutral effect on inflation. I am happy to accept his comment. I believe that he is basically right. Wages have been battling to catch up with prices, not the other way around, for the last few years. It is absurd to say that the basic cause of inflation at present is wages. This is one time at which I find myself in strong agreement with the Prime Minister. The effect of wages on inflation has been essentially neutral. 
We have to move to a totally different approach to economic policy in this country which emphasises the importance of inflation and takes measures to reduce it. We should not increase indirect taxes and take measures which will lead directly to increasing prices. We should adopt measures to reduce indirect taxes and, particularly, to break the nexus between import prices for petroleum and Australian produced crude oil. The decisions made by various OPEC sheiks about the appropriate price of their petroleum should not automatically determine the price of Australian produced crude oil. We do not have to adopt those kinds of decisions. We also need an effective prices and incomes policy. This Government will never be able to adopt such a policy. A Labor government will adopt such a policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The 1979 Budget and the Bills associated with it exemplify more starkly than any of the other three Budgets or two mini-Budgets of this Government the nature of its conservative economic policies. The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill, which we are now debating, embodies some of the most destructive features of these economic policies. The purpose of this Bill is to reduce by $63m the capital grants to the States made by the Commonwealth Government. The effect of this must be to cause deterioration of essential services, increasing inefficiency and reductions in the efficiency of the private sector. It also severely retards the already depressed building and construction industry, so increasing unemployment in that industry and also reducing the economic activity and employment of the industry which supplies the materials and subsidiary services to the building and construction industry. 
This Bill shows clearly that the much vaunted new federalism is simply a deceptive means of reducing Commonwealth payments to the States so as to force them to introduce a second income tax. The Bill authorises the payment of capital grants totalling $4 15m to the States during 1979- 80. The Bill also provides for the payment of capital grants in the first six months of 1 980- 8 1 up to an amount equal to one half of the 1979-80 amount until an equivalent Bill has been passed next year. That is a fairly standard mechanical feature of this kind of annual legislation. Finally, the Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow the required funds to make these payments. These grants from the Commonwealth to the States for capital works are one-third of the total general allocation made through the Loan Council for State capital works. The States can use these funds for any capital works not allocated for any specific purpose. 
There are, in addition, specific purpose capital grants paid by the Commonwealth to the States for such expenditure as housing, schools and various other specified facilities. In allocating $4 15m for Commonwealth capital grants to the States during 1979-80, this Bill reduces by $63m the Commonwealth grants to the States in absolute terms; that is, in money terms. In real terms, that is in terms of work which can be paid for by this allocation, the loss to the States is about $95 m or a fall of 20 per cent in comparison with the previous year. This is a pretty stark figure; indeed it is a disastrous figure. There is no evidence that the Government has given any attention at all to the need for capital works in the States. The figure has not been calculated by looking at any assessment of the adequacy of schools, health centres or any other capital works projects in the various States. Rather, the logic appears to have been that a reduction in the deficit in some way will magically reduce the rate of inflation, that it is easier to cut spending on capital works than to sack public servants and it is easier for the Commonwealth to force cuts onto the States than to make cuts itself. 
A 20 per cent reduction in funds for capital works in one year is a catastrophic change in the pattern of financial allocations. It is a decision made unilaterally by the Commonwealth and imposed on the States through the Loan Council. It is inaccurate to describe the decisions of the Loan Council as being made co-operatively. This policy is simply a product of the Commonwealth's misguided doctrinaire approach. The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill is part of the total Loan Council approval for general capital funds for the States. Since 1 970 it has been the practice for one-third of these funds to be made available to the States by way of grant and for the rest to come out of loan funds. This year the Loan Council approved $ 1,245m for total general purpose capital funds for the States. That is a reduction in money terms of $189m in comparison with last year, or a 20 per cent fall in real terms. If the Commonwealth had allowed the Loan Council to approve the same real funding as last year, an additional $300m over and above what has now been allocated would have been required. The severity of these cuts has not been appreciated in the community, nor have their consequences. The cuts continue the trend of the last four years but the Government has pushed them much further than ever before. At this stage I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the trends in general purpose capital funds for State governments for the period 1975-76 to 1979-80. 
-They are taken from the Budget Paper dealing with Payments to and for the States. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="116131197910243_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This table shows that capital grants including borrowings approved and total general purpose capital funds for the States have fallen by  3lA  per cent in money terms and by 3 1 V4 per cent in real terms during the last four years. The actual grant component of these total payments to the States for general purpose capital funds is $ 15m less this year than it was in 1975-76. In money terms, it is $15m less. Of course, when one takes account of inflation, that figure is markedly less. It is in real terms 3 1.6 per cent less this year than it was four years ago, the time of the allocation made in the last Labor Government Budget. An additional $547m will be required to restore capital funds for the States to their 1975-76 real level. It is therefore absolutely clear and incontrovertible that the Commonwealth has been steadily starving the States of funds essential for the maintenance and improvement of their infrastructures. 
The State Premiers and Treasurers naturally have been critical of this approach, although the Premiers and Treasurers of States with Liberal and National Country Party governments have predictably been rather more muted in their criticism than their counterparts in Labor government States. However, each of the Treasurers presenting State Budgets has been critical of the Commonwealth's cuts in capital works funds. For example,  Mr Thompson,  the Victorian Liberal Party Treasurer, in his Budget Speech said: 
The reduction in general capital funds by the Commonwealth has imposed great strains on State resources because the demands for essential new buildings and maintenance have to be met. 

 Mr Thompson then drew attention to the fact that the Commonwealth's expenditure on its own activities is budgeted to increase nearly twice as fast as the Commonwealth is allowing the States to increase their expenditures. In his loan speech on 27 September,  Mr Renshaw,  the New South Wales Treasurer, said: 
Again this year, despite strong protests from all Premiers, the Federal Government has cut the States capital programs . . . It is wrong for the Federal Government to suggest that the States are better off financially as a result of the Fraser Government's 'new federalism' policy. These past three years have seen the systematic reduction of a large number of federally funded capital programs to New South Wales . . . I would not be doing my duty to the people of New South Wales if I failed to point out the inevitable consequences of the Federal Government's policies; there will eventually be a significant increase in unemployment in Australia- unless there is a change in the Federal Government 's economic strategy. This is the background- the background of stringency imposed by the Federal Government, unparalleled in the post-war years- against which this year's capital works program has been framed. 
Quite clearly  Mr Renshaw  was very concerned about the substantial cutback which has been  imposed on his State by the reduced allocation with which we are now dealing in this Bill. In his earlier Budget Speech  Mr Renshaw  had said: 
There are certain basic facts that should be put on record about the extent of the financial stringency imposed by the Federal Government. In the period from 197S-76 to 1979-80, prices have risen by 43 per cent and all Commonwealth Budget outlays have also risen by 43 per cent. Total Commonwealth payments to New South Wales have risen by only 33 per cent in the same period. Thus, if total Federal payments to New South Wales had kept pace with inflation and with the Federal Government's own total spending, New South Wales would have received over S300m more this year. 
This demonstrates what a restrictive effect this Government's policies have had on our largest State. It could be said that that was a member of the Labor Party talking, but similar things have been said, as I have already remarked, by  Mr Thompson,  the Liberal Treasurer in Victoria, and also by  Sir Charles  Court, the Liberal Premier in Western Australia. In his Loan estimate speech on 1 8 September,  Sir Charles  Court said: 
Despite strong opposition from the Premiers, the Prime Minister and the Federal Treasurer would not budge in their attitude, for reasons related to the size of the Commonwealth deficit and the difficulties they foresaw in raising any greater sum on the domestic capital market. Although I acknowledge the tightness of the market, I consider that we should aim at raising an increased amount and pressed this point of view strongly. My concern and that of all other Premiers, was for the impact the cut would have on our works program and, as a consequence, on employment. In our case, we faced an overall reduction of 6 per cent in funds available to finance works this year, which in real terms, meant a reduction of about 1 5 per cent in the physical volume of work which could be undertaken. 
I interpolate here that a 15 per cent reduction is an extraordinary reduction in the amount of work that State can undertake.  Sir Charles  Court also said: 
This Government has done all in its power to alleviate unemployment and the obdurate attitude of the Commonwealth was a bitter blow. It could only have the effect of worsening an already difficult unemployment problem. 
There we have a quite specific statement by  Sir Charles  Court, the Liberal Premier in Western Australia, that in his view this Bill we are now discussing and the decisions encompassed in it would undoubtedly have the effect of worsening an already difficult unemployment problem. Indeed, that was perhaps a rather euphemistic way to phrase it. The Queensland Treasurer,  Dr Edwards,  in his financial statement made on 20 September said: 
I repeat what I have said on many occasions that while I agree that inflation must be contained, we do not agree that cut-back in capital works programs are necessary to achieve this important aim. I believe that full employment is not inconsistent with containing inflation. 
I interpolate again that that is something with which we, on this side of the House, fully agree. 
But these submissions are coming not from a member of the Labor Party, but from a member of the Liberal Party in Queensland- the Liberal Treasurer in that State. He continued: 
I am certain that an increased public capital works program can quickly generate additional activity in the economy. 
This is exactly Labor Party policy. He continued: 
Expenditure in the building and construction industry results in additional demand also in all the industries servicing it. A total effect several times the value of the initial expenditure is thus produced by these flow-on effects. 
What  Dr Edwards  is saying there has been said time and time again by members on this side of the House. He says that if capital works are cut back, as this Government has been doing so severely in the period it has been in office, the inevitable effect of that cutback will be to reduce employment. If that argument is put the other way around, if one were to increase expenditure on capital works, this would be a sensible way in which to stimulate employment both directly in the sense of public works activity itself and also indirectly through the suppliers of building materials and so on to the contractors on the capital works projects.  Mr Batt,  the Tasmanian Treasurer, had a special section on Commonwealth and State financial relations in his Budget Speech on 1 8 September. He said: 
When I delivered my first Budget Speech, just over 12 months ago, I expressed concern at the deterioration that had occurred in the state of Tasmania's finances since the advent of the Commonwealth 'new federalism' policy on 1 July 1976. I discussed at some length the effect upon Tasmania of the deliberate Commonwealth policy to curtail the financial influence of the public sector in the economy and to restrict the purchasing power of moneys available to the States. It is with deep regret that I record a continuation of this short sighted Commonwealth attitude, with its consequential rising of unemployment, and human suffering. One of my greatest frustrations as a State Treasurer has been my inability to allocate sufficient funds for the relief of the unemployed, because of the financial strait-jacket imposed upon me by the Commonwealth. A disturbing trend that has become evident under 'new federalism' is the deterioration in the Federal funds allocated to Tasmania, relative to the sums allocated to other States. 
Of course, it was the earlier realisation of the truth of those words by the people of Tasmania at the election which was held in, I think, July, that led to an overwhelming Labor Party victory in that State. Tasmania, like other States, has had to cope with this absolutely unnecessary situation by diverting funds from other valuable public services so as to prevent the fall in capital works spending from being absolutely catastrophic.  Mr Batt  said in his speech: 
Because of the severe cut-backs in Federal funding, it- 
The Tasmanian Government- has been obliged to make significant economies in some areas and it has had to defer or postpone a number of highly desirable new services and projects. 
So, just to keep some form of capital works program going, the Tasmanian Government has had to cut back on other worthwhile projects and services. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in the House two weeks ago that State Budgets showed that the States had been able to cope with the level of Commonwealth funding without increasing taxes. In fact, the Prime Minister said that all the States have been able to cut their taxes. As usual he was being quite misleading. The cuts in taxes that he described are minute; most are increases in payroll tax exemptions which are aimed at increasing employment. Several States have made concessions about estate and gift duty, but it is difficult for them to avoid doing so when other States are making similar concessions. Of course, the process begun by Queensland has meant that all the States have moved, one after the other, gradually to reduce and eradicate estate and gift duties at the State level. What the Prime Minister did not say is that the States have softened the blow to capital works by transferring funds from other expenditure areas. The effect of that has to be that the extent and quality of services offered by the States have been reduced. 
The permission given to the States last year to borrow overseas for major infrastructure projects does not offset the damage to the States from reduced capital grants and lower interest rate borrowing. Borrowing overseas requires payment of high interest rates and carries with it a substantial exchange risk. When the value of currencies in which the borrowing occurs appreciate relative to the Australian dollar, the repayment and interest payments are increased and therefore there is likely to be a net loss to the States. As one of the Budget papers shows- I think it is Budget Paper No. 6, Table 3, page 22- over the course of the last year Australia's total overseas borrowings have suffered. If they all had had to be repaid at the end of the last financial year an additional amount of some $356m would have had to be paid back because of adverse movements in relative exchange rates between those countries from which we borrow. If the States are going to move more heavily into borrowing from overseas they are going to have to bear more and more of that exchange risk. At present only a small amount, some $8m of the $350m-odd, is attributable to the States. But if they get more heavily into borrowing- as undoubtedly they are going to do, given the pressure which they have been under from this Government-they are going to have to bear the possibility of quite heavy exchange losses when they come to repay those loans in future years. 
The Opposition says that it is clear from all of this that the so-called 'new federalism' is no longer a veiled way of reducing the size and the services provided by the State governments. Quite obviously that is what new federalism is all about. This is shown most clearly by looking at total funds from the Commonwealth to the States for recurrent and capital purposes; not just funds for capital purposes but total funds paid by the Commonwealth to the States. The figures are published by the Government in Budget Paper No. 7, titled 'Payments to or for the States, the Northern Territory and local government authorities, 1979-80'. Table 3 of that paper shows that the actual amount paid to the States in 1975-76 was $8,555m. The payment during 1979-80 is expected to be $1 1,431m, which is a total increase of 33.6 per cent. However, during those four years it is estimated that the deflator for public sector expenditure will have increased by 38.8 per cent, assuming an  %Vi  per cent increase in the public sector deflator in 1979-80. This means that over the last four years there will have been a real fall in total funds paid by the Commonwealth to the States of nearly 4 per cent; 3.7 per cent to be precise. So the real value of the total funds paid by the Commonwealth to the States in the past four years has now declined by almost 4 per cent. The fall has been heavier in the capital works area, as I have said. 
If we take it overall it is an absolute real reduction of some 4 per cent. This is despite the fact that there will have been a population growth of nearly 5 per cent during this period and that until now there has been an overall economic growth in real terms of something like 9 per cent. Therefore, the States have received a significantly reduced allocation of funds while their populations have been rising, leading to an increasing demand for their services. The latter half of the 1970s must accordingly be seen as a period in which the Commonwealth has forced the States to allow the urban environment to deteriorate and the extension of services in rural areas to be curtailed. Housing commission waiting lists have been lengthened and deprived suburbs and towns have become even more relatively deprived. This has all happened at a time when the resources of the Commonwealth have risen in real terms. 
Let me show this again conclusively simply by comparing the 1979-80 Budget estimate with that of 1978-79. The Prime Minister likes to pretend that the States have coped effortlessly with the Commonwealth imposed stringencies. In his second reading speech on this Bill, the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr MacKellar)  attempted to present the same case. But the fact is that total payments by the Commonwealth to the States this financial year are budgeted to increase by 6.6 per cent in money terms in comparison with last year. This must mean a real fall because the rate of inflation for the year is estimated by the Government to be around 10 per cent. Even allowing for some differences between the consumer price index and the public sector deflator, it is clear that real allocations to the States this financial year will fall by at least 2 per cent. That is taking a conservative view of the matter, but at least a 2 per cent real fall in the total allocation to the States from the Commonwealth is expected this financial year. 
At this stage I seek leave to incorporate in  Ilansard  a table showing total funds to States for recurrent and capital purposes which has been taken from Budget Paper No. 7. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="116131197910243_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

This table sets out quite clearly the point I have been making. It covers the period between 1975-76 to 1979-80, and shows the actual amounts of total funds payable to the States and the Commonwealth. It shows the adjustment for prices and the percentage change in real terms. As I have mentioned we see an allocation this year of almost 4 per cent below the level for 1975-76. Government spokesmen try to dodge around this incontrovertible fact. This is particularly true of the Prime Minister who is an expert in camouflage and subterfuge. But no matter how he wriggles it is an inescapable fact that this Government has steadily eroded the capacity of the States to provide essential services. 
The States would have had to receive an additional $443m this financial year to restore the purchasing power of their allocations from the Commonwealth to the levels that they were at in 1 975-76. To restore their capacity to provide services to the 1975-76 level and to take account of population growth in the last four years an additional $ 1,032m would be required. I think those figures show just how tremendously the funds of the States have been cut back by the activities of the Fraser Government. 
A particularly serious aspect of this destructiveness is that capital works, which have suffered most severely, are the most important influence a government has on the level of economic activity.  Dr Edwards,  as I previously mentioned, showed clearly that government spending on capital works has both a direct and an indirect impact on private sector activity and employment, for reduced capital spending damages constructions firms and, as well, reduces demand for all the materials and equipment that they use. With less building there is less demand for steel, concrete, bricks, timber and transport. What economists call the multiplier effect of public capital works spending is greater than the multiplier effect of any other form of government expenditure. The tragedy is that many of the forms of capital works spending are amongst the most necessary to improve the efficiency and well-being of the community. The quality of roads, the safety of public transport, the accessibility of public transport, the adequacy of the supply of housing, particularly for low income earners, and the availability of community services in more remote rural areas all depend on public works. 
This conservative Government has been more concerned with doctrine than with community well-being. The Prime Minister is obsessively pre-occupied with reducing the deficit- a task at which he has so far been extraordinarily unsuccessful. He is apparently willing to use inflationary means to reduce the deficit, for the effect of the 1979-80 Budget is to increase significantly the rate of inflation in Australia, a fact of which we have been reminded today by the consumer price index figures for the September quarter. But even within its own context, the Government is using a self-defeating strategy to reduce the deficit because the effect of its policies is to suppress economic activity, thereby reducing taxable capacity and so contributing to increases in the deficit. 
The approach which would be far better in the nation's long term interests would be to stimulate the economy through government activity, which might lead initially to some increase in the deficit but which would then steadily contribute to reduction in the deficit as the level of economic activity, and so taxable capacity, increased. The employment statistics issued a couple of weeks ago are a foretaste, we believe, of what the two contractionary Budgets of this year will mean for the Australian economy. The rise in September of 24,000 in the number of unemployed, as measured by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, and the fall in August of 26,000 in the employed labour force are clear indications of a worsening situation. Normally at this time of the year there is a substantial expansion of jobs in many industries. However, this year the normal pattern has been reversed, with the most recent figures showing employment falling and unemployment rising. 
The States have been threatened with even more serious cuts next financial year, for in June 1980 the so-called Whitlam formula, which set a minimum level below which general purpose payments to the States cannot fall, will come to an end. If that leads to even lower payments the impact on the economy of the kind of measures we have seen so far will be accentuated even further. In 1976 the States proposed that the Commonwealth guarantee that the payment would be no lower than would have occurred under the arrangements introduced by the Labor Government. The Fraser Government agreed, but only for a period of four years. This led to the so-called Whitlam formula guarantee being continued for that period. 
The formula contains an adjustment to the general revenue grants to the States for growth in population, increases in average earnings and a betterment factor of three per cent. The maintenance of this guarantee has not been sufficient to maintain total Commonwealth payments to the States but it has ensured some growth of general revenue grants, which are now about half of the total Commonwealth payments to the States. The Whitlam formula is at present being renegotiated. A Premiers Conference is due to be held in November to discuss the introduction of new arrangements. The Prime Minister is clearly aiming to force the States to introduce stage 2 of his new federalism policy, which would involve the States in introducing an income tax surcharge. The State Premiers and Treasurers have expressed great concern about that in their Budget speeches. For example,  Sir Charles  Court said: 
I spoke at some length last year on this issue and informed members of our efforts to have the guarantee extended. Discussions are continuing between the Commonwealth and the 
States on this and other matters relating to the tax sharing arrangements and I am hopeful that a sensible guarantee formula will be agreed. If the Commonwealth Government holds to its present position that the only guarantee will be that no State will receive less in any year than in the previous years, the effect on the States' revenue could be serious in some years. 

 Mr Renshaw has expressed similar concern about the possible ending of the Whitlam guarantee. Of course, we will have to wait until November to see exactly what comes out of the Premiers Conference. If the Government adheres to its apparent position at this stage, which is to ensure that there is no continuance of the Whitlam guarantee, the one growth area in the payments to the States- the general revenue grants- as a result of a guarantee formula taken over from the days of the Labor Government will cease to develop in the way it has developed in the past and total payments to the States will plummet at an even greater rate in real terms than has been the case so far. Because of the serious consequence which would flow from the passage of this Bill, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Bill, by decimating Commonwealth grants for State capital works: 
causes deterioration in the supply and quality of essential services, increasing inefficiency, and reduced productive capacity; 
severely retards recovery of the depressed building and construction industry; 
3 ) increases unemployment, and 
shows 'new Federalism' to be a deceptive means of reducing Commonwealth payments to the States so as to force them to introduce a second income tax'. 
-In the time available to me in this debate I want to refer to the Government's argument and more particularly that of Treasury as set out in the detailed Budget Papers and also in an article published by the head of Treasury,  Mr Stone,  that deficit reduction is absolutely essential to economic recovery. In so doing, it is admitted by those who hold to this argument that the long-accepted analysis from Keynesian economics that a deficit increase through reduced taxes or increased government expenditure would have stimulatory effects on the economy is correct in the short run, and conversely that a deficit reduction by tax rises or an expenditure cut would have contractionary effects on the economy is also correct in the short run. However, they then go on to argue that the initial effects will be more than offset by counteracting effects on monetary policy, the balance of payments and wages. It should be said immediately that their analysis of these counteracting effects is not accepted by many economists in that it involves a considerable degree of unsubstantiated judgment and there is very little empirical evidence to support it. 
The argument in respect of monetary policy is that the higher the deficit the more likely it is that adverse effects will flow. These are supposed to come through an increase in the money supply; a tighter monetary policy; problems in persuading the private sector to take up government securities to finance the higher deficit or through an outflow of capital overseas. 
Let me briefly consider each of these possibilities. In regard to the increase in the money supply, it is usually argued that if the higher deficit leads to a higher rate of money supply growth this will add to inflation. I have already made the point in a previous speech on the Loan Bill that in looking at other countries there is little relationship to be seen between the deficit and inflation, and the same also is true of our history. A more specific point to make is that the inflationary impact will surely depend on the extent of the money supply rise and the rate of money supply growth that would otherwise have occurred. A rise of one per cent to two per cent on a rate of 10 per cent in the money supply growth could hardly be said to be likely to result in notably more inflation. That is the kind of rise which would occur with an increase in the deficit of some $800m. This is especially so if the rate of growth that would otherwise have occurred is restrictive as in the 10 per cent money supply rate growth target for the current Budget. This must be compared with the fact that the Budget forecasts a 10 per cent rise in prices and a rise of three per cent in economic growth. If we allow for only a 10 per cent money supply growth this is likely to be quite restrictive in itself and to prevent expansion which would otherwise have occurred. Another one per cent to two per cent would allow more scope for growth to occur while still not being permissive towards inflation. 
In regard to the possibility of tighter monetary policy, in this respect it is argued that a higher deficit could lead to higher interest rates if the money supply target rate was adhered to. More restrictive policies on bank lending would be required thus tending to crowd out private expenditure and result in higher interest rates. Whether such tightening of monetary policy would be required depends on conditions at the time. At present I would argue that it is not necessary. However, it should be noted that on the assumption that it was necessary there is no certainty or even any established likelihood that crowding out of the private sector would occur. As reported in the  Australian Economic Review  for the first quarter of this year, recent econometric work in the United Kingdom demonstrates that in these circumstances an increased deficit will not only have no crowding out effect on the private sector but also that its financial effects will be positively to stimulate the private sector. 
In regard to the argument that there will be problems in financing the deficit by sales to the non-bank public, I have already shown in my speech on the Loan Bill that the financial institutions are currently holding relatively low levels of government securities. So the problem of a glut of government securities does not currently apply. It is also relevant to current circumstances to note that in the last financial year the nonbank public take-up of government securities was far below previous years. Page 27 of Budget Paper No. 1 states unambiguously that non-bank take-up of Commonwealth Government securities was equivalent to 32 per cent of the domestic deficit for 1978-79 compared with 53 per cent in 1977-78 and 59 per cent in the previous year. Clearly there is no glut of government securities on the market at present. Indeed, the Government did not even try to sell bonds for most of last year. 
In regard to the argument about an outflow of capital overseas, it is argued that an increased deficit would be seen by foreign investors as likely to lead to higher inflation, so there would be exchange rate uncertainty and a drying up of capital inflow. If the depreciation of the exchange rate did occur it would add to inflation by raising import prices. However, such prospects are not supported by the available empirical evidence. The  Australian Economic Review  in its first quarter edition for 1979 reviewed the empirical evidence regarding the likely effect on the balance of payments current account and the capital account and concluded that the various models that have been established, which include the Reserve Bank and Treasury models, did not produce results which supported the view that a more stimulatory policy would lead to balance of payments problems. It concluded: 
The available evidence does not provide grounds for unmitigated gloom as to the balance of payments consequences of expansionary policies in the current situation. 
In regard to wages, it is argued that a more expansionary fiscal policy would lead to higher wages than would otherwise occur and that therefore employment would be less likely to rise. In addition, it is argued that existing real wage levels are too high to encourage employers to take on extra labour and that therefore any stimulatory policy would be negated by this excessive wage level. This argument assumes that the so-called real wage overhang still exists and the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has found that it does not exist. Indeed, the Government's whole argument on the real wage overhang has been shown by previous argument on this side of the chamber to be inappropriate. Thus the assertion that Australia 's real wages are too high and are inhibiting economic recovery is extremely dubious. Similarly, the argument that a higher deficit would lead to higher wages is lacking in logical foundation. If this argument really means that a higher deficit would raise economic activity and thereby facilitate higher wages because of greater bargaining power for the unions, such an argument applies whether the stimulus comes from the public or the private sector. What seems to be implicit in this argument is that any recovery would be bad because it would lead to higher wages and that would inhibit recovery. If that is the case there is precious little hope for the future as it would seem that what was being argued was that any recovery in economic activity was doomed because of the likelihood of increased wages. It also ignores the point that if measures used to reduce the deficit such as increased taxes or increased health costs raise prices and /or reduce living standards this will encourage higher wage claims despite the lower deficit. The notion that wage claims and the intensity with which they are sought are somehow related directly to the size of the deficit is therefore utterly naive. Such an assumption amounts to little more than a pious hope and in practice is likely to prove completely incorrect. 
Finally, it is argued by the advocates of deficit reduction as the policy panacea that it is especially important to take into account the effects on economic activity of the confidence and expectations of the business sector and consumers. Thus it is argued that an increased deficit would revive fears of more inflation and inhibit investment growth. Such a proposition sits oddly with the fact that while the Fraser Government has been in office deficits have been higher than was the case under the Labor Government but private investment expenditure has been one of the few bullish points of the economy. If the deficit is so discouraging to business leaders why have they continued to invest? Why too have businessmen in other countries where deficits have been far higher than in Australia continued to invest? I hazard a guess that one reason is that the actual inflation level has been relatively low in countries such as Germany, Japan, Austria and the Netherlands. The higher deficits in those countries has not discouraged investment. 
Thus the actual inflation level and perceptible increases in it because of policy changes may be rather more important than the deficit itself. In Australia, measures used to reduce the deficit, such as the crude oil levy, increased health costs and increased taxes on alcohol and tobacco all feed directly into the consumer price index and so inflame inflationary expectations. The discouragement to investment through fears of what these price rises will do to inflationary expectations in the nation generally may well be more likely adversely to influence investment decisions and the deficit per se. Especially is this so when we consider that the contractionary effect on demand of the reduced deficit will further reduce the incentive to invest. One could be more positive still that this would be so with consumers. They certainly do not make their spending decisions on the basis of how high the deficit is, but it is likely that the actual movement in prices has some influence. Thus measures to reduce the deficit which also add to prices create inflationary expectations in consumers which will be likely to reduce their propensity to spend. 
Certainly our recent history supports that analysis. Through 1974, the savings ratio increased sharply yet it was only in the last quarter of that year that a substantial deficit occurred. The earlier fall while the Budget was in domestic surplus was clearly much more related to the actual level of inflation and its rapid rate of increase than to some nebulous deficit outcome. 
It is also argued that an increased deficit would increase expectations of higher interest rates and encourage speculation. This is also without foundation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
What is the current supporting parent's benefit for a parent with (a) one child, (b) 2 children, (c) 3 children and (d) 4 children. 
By what sum do these benefits exceed or fall short of the current poverty line calculated as proposed in the Henderson Report for a supporting parent who is not in the work force. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: ;' '/ 
1 ) What percentage rate of tax is charged to overseas musicians who perform in Australia. 
What was the gross sum paid to the Treasury from this source in(a) 1976-77 and (b) 1977-78. 
-The Opposition wishes to express its concern about and, indeed, opposition to this clause. What this clause does is to prevent the indexation of the spouse rebate. It is part of the Government's total plan to have no tax indexation for the year 1 979-80. We believe that if there is to be no tax indexation of the rates scale there should at least be tax indexation applying to the spouse rebate. It is rather ironic that we have a situation in which the Government is refusing to apply tax indexation to the spouse rebate. In other words, the Government is refusing to give assistance to those single income families. 
We keep reading in the newspapers that various members on the Government back benches are so concerned about these people that they are floating all these schemes around about how they are going to look after the single income earning families. We are told that they are concerned because they are paying more tax than the families which have the same income that is earned by two people. They say that they have a real concern. Yet, here we have a situation in which they could do something about assisting single income earning families by increasing the spouse rebate, by indexing it for this financial year. But no, that is not this Government's intention. It has no real concern for these people. All of this publicity that we keep reading in the newspapers about various back bench committees being concerned about these people seems to be so much hogwash when it comes to the reality of what this Government actually does. It gives no assistance in this Budget to the single income earning family. The Opposition opposes this clause and intends to vote against it. 
-As I was saying, the fifth point was that the dividend and interest going to Papua New Guinea was made subject to withholding tax, thereby preventing the use of Papua New Guinea to avoid the payment of withholding tax. Subscriptions of pseudo exploration companies were ended as a form of tax avoidance. Avoidance of withholding tax on interest payable to overseas residents by means of the initial payment of such interest to an overseas branch in Australian business was ended. Seven quite specific measures were taken by the Labor Government in respect of tax avoidance. The kind of activity into which this Government has been forced, which admittedly is rather more extensive than that, is simply because so much more tax avoidance has been going on since this Government came into office. The fact that the Government has had so much legislation is a product not of the concern of this Government as against the concern of the Labor Government but of the fact that it has had so much tax avoidance activity going on while it has been in Government. For the first two years in which it was in Government, to use the words of the  President  of the Tax Institute of Australia, it let it go unchecked until it became a disease, an epidemic, that gripped the whole of the economy, certainly the more affluent parts of the economy. That is the reality of the situation. We do not have to put up with the sort of nonsense which we have heard from the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  who has totally distorted the reality of the situation when the Labor Government was in office. 
I simply wish to deal with one of the points- I think it was the only point- made by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  He was totally wrong as he usually is. He said that the Australian Labor Party had done nothing in respect of tax avoidance in the three years in which it was in government. 
-I am just going to tell the honourable member what it did do. It did quite a bit in fact. The first point I make is, as I said in my speech in the second reading debate, that tax avoidance- in the words of the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia, who I think knows much more about the matter than the honourable member for Bendigo- took off in the two years prior to December 1978. That was a period in which this Government was in office. He said that it happened in that period because tax avoidance went unchecked it became a disease, a sort of madness which gripped the Australian economy. Those were the words of the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia. 
I now deal with the more specific point made by the honourable member for Bendigo, that Labor did nothing in respect of tax avoidance when it was in office. These are the measures which the Labor Government introduced against tax avoidance: Firstly, tax avoidance through purchase of companies with accumulated bad debts or losses was ended. Secondly, restrictions were imposed on the carry forward of excess distribution by private companies in order to avoid an undistributed profits tax. Thirdly, the use of Norfolk Island, Cocos Island and Christmas 
Island as tax havens for avoidance of personal and company tax was ended. Fourthly, payments of dividends to artificial companies in Papua New Guinea and other tax havens as a means of avoiding undistributed profits tax was ended. Fifthly, dividends and interest going to Papua New Guinea was made subject to withholding tax. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 
-The Bills now before the House cover a wide variety of income tax measures. Their principal effect is to close off various tax avoidance loopholes and to increase substantially the income tax burden on taxpayers as a whole for this financial year by reimposing a tax surcharge and denying any income tax indexation. The Opposition strenuously supports the tax avoidance measures but just as strenuously opposes the Government's measure to increase substantially income tax across the board. The Bills also give effect to various less important alterations to the Income Tax Assessment Act. The Opposition does not oppose those changes. The only Bill that we oppose completely is the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill. This is the Bill which imposes the tax surcharge and denies indexation of the tax scale this financial year. Let me say at the outset that we strongly object to the complete misrepresentation of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  of the impact of this Bill in his second reading speech. He said: 
The main feature of the Bill is the removal of the income tax surcharge imposed as a temporary measure for the 1978-79 financial year. 
That statement simply is not true. This Bill does not remove any surcharge. In fact, it imposes a surcharge of 1.07c in the dollar at all levels of taxable income. Certainly, this surcharge is less than that applying to the previous year, which was 1.57c in the dollar, but to describe the Bill as removing the income tax surcharge is totally and completely untrue. What it does is reduce the surcharge by 29 per cent, not remove it as the Treasurer claims, taxes of the Bill, therefore, is that people with a taxable income of between $3,893. and $ 16,608, which includes most people who pay income tax, will pay 33.07c in every dollar over $3,893 instead of the standard rate of 32c in the dollar. Of course, the Government is very sensitive about this and is doing its best to deceive the Australian people as to what is really going on. I am sure, that most honourable members recall the interview of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on radio the morning after the Budget. Quite ineptly and deceptively he attempted to assert that what the Budget did was to cut income taxes. In his second reading speech on the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill the Treasurer just as deceptively attempted to give the same impression to the Parliament and the people. 
The impact of the surcharge on taxpayers in this country will be quite considerable. Although an amount of 1.07c in the dollar may not sound like very much it will mean that taxpayers collectively will pay out an additional $600m this year. That is far from being a minor sum. It should be clearly understood that all Government supporters who vote for this Bill will be supporting the removal of that amount of additional income from taxpayers by way of increased income tax. Certainly Government supporters will claim, as the Prime Minister ' and the Treasurer have already claimed, that taxes are being reduced this financial year because pay-as-you-earn deductions will be reduced after the end of this month. This will certainly be the case because these taxpayers have been paying tax so far this financial year at the same rate as that which they paid for the last seven months of the previous year. The surcharge for the last seven months of 1978-79 on PA YE deductions was 2.47c in the dollar. Averaged out over 12 months it became 1.5c inthe dollar, which was the surcharge applicable to all taxpayers in that year. This year the continuance of the surcharge of 2.47c in the dollar for the first five months of the financial year will average out over the whole 12 months to 1.07c in the dollar. That is the surcharge applicable to all taxpayers this year. It is imposed by the legislation now before the House. The supposed tax cuts in December that the Government is so anxious to capitalise on are, in fact, nothing more than a consequence of pay-as-you-earn taxpayers having paid in the first five months of the year the full year's surcharge on their income tax for the whole year. 
The legislation now before the House also increases the level of income tax on taxpayers by denying any tax indexation. The concept of tax indexation to which the Government was supposedly committed involves adjusting the tax scale for inflation so that as taxpayers' incomes increase with inflation they do not have their tax burden- that is the proportion of their income that they pay in tax- increased automatically. By adjusting the tax scale for inflation, the proportion of income that taxpayers whose incomes increase with inflation will pay in tax will remain unchanged. That at least is the theory. Although the Fraser Government claimed to be committed to full indexation, it has never applied full tax indexation. It discounted various price rises in its first two years of office and in 1978-79 it applied what it said was half indexation. In fact, it was more like one-third indexation. For the current year there will be no indexation at all. As a c onsequence, the proportion of income that tax- payers will pay in tax will increase. 
The cost to taxpayers of being denied tax indexation is not incidental; it is $487m, accord- ing to the figures given by the Treasurer. Thus the total increase in income tax because of the continuance of a substantial surcharge and the non- indexation of the tax scales will be, on the figures given by the Treasurer, $1,08 7m. That is the cost of the Government's broken promises. The promise that last year's tax surcharge would be only temporary and would end by 30 June this year and the promise to restore tax indexation this year were both broken in the infamous May mini-Budget. The cost to taxpayers of those broken promises is being felt right now. As I have said, collectively it amounts to a sum of approximately $1,1 00m. The excuse given by the Treasurer for not implementing tax indexation this year is that the Government could not afford to reduce the surcharge and implement tax indexation. It decided, therefore, to reduce the surcharge, and to try to convince people that it would be abolished in December, and not implement tax indexation on the basis, so the Treasurer said, the people do not understand it. That is an extraordinarily interesting statement by the Treasurer. If we compare what the Government put forward as its reason for originally supporting tax indexation it does not fit at all. 
What the Government said originally was that it was essential to have tax indexation because it was necessary to keep governments honest and to stop them increasing taxes by stealth. Therefore, if we abolish tax indexation it follows logically, from the Government's own argument, that what we are doing is increasing taxes by stealth and that the Government is not being honest. That clearly flows from the Treasurer's statement that people do not understand tax indexation. In a large measure he is right; they do not understand it. But the fact remains that what he is doing by not implementing tax indexation is, in the words of himself, the Prime Minister and other Government spokesmen, increasing taxes by stealth and being dishonest. It is absurd for the Treasurer to claim that it is reasonable to have forgone tax indexation this year because people do not understand it. It simply does not accord at all with the previous statements the Government has made about the essential need to have tax indexation. 
The Treasurer also has said that tax indexation will be restored only when we can get inflation down. What an absolutely ridiculous and absurd statement that is. Tax indexation has relevance only when there is inflation. If there were no inflation tax indexation would be a totally irrelevant concept because people would not be moving up the tax scale according to the level of inflation; therefore there would be no increase in taxation by stealth at least in respect of the inflation factor although there could be in respect of increases in real income. Essentially, the inflation argument means that there is no inflation and there is no need to have tax indexation. The Treasurer says: 'If we can get inflation down to almost nothing we will give you back tax indexation. But if we cannot do that, if inflation remains high, there is no way we can have tax indexation'. So when the people really need it, when it is important and relevant, they will not get it. When it is irrelevant or nearly irrelevant this Government might decide to give it to them. That is the kind of situation we are in at the present time. 
The Treasurer also defended non-indexation by saying that there are now only three marginal rates instead of the previous seven; therefore tax indexation is less important in that context. That again is a totally absurd and nonsensical argument. There is total confusion between marginal rates and average tax rates. It does not matter how many steps there are provided the scale is somewhat progressive. If there is no tax indexation under a progressive income tax scale and people's incomes increase with inflation they will inevitably pay a higher and higher proportion of their income in tax, as indeed was the case for the period from about 1954 to the early 1970s under previous Liberal-Country Party governments when almost without exception people annually moved up the tax scale because of nonindexation of the schedule. There was a five per cent surcharge in some years and a five per cent reduction in others but the general movement was up the scale because of non-indexation. If there is a progressive tax scale, irrespective of whether it has three, five, seven or 15 steps, and it is not indexed, there will be an increase in the tax burden simply by the process of inflation and without the Government's doing anything actually to increase tax rates. It is ridiculous in the extreme to argue, as the Treasurer does, that because there are now three levels indexation is less relevant. 
The tax increases which have been imposed in this Budget are very substantial, as is illustrated by what I have already said. The overall figures reveal that the increase in income tax receipts this year, calculated on the Budget assumption that wages will increase by 9 per cent to 9.5 per cent, will be 18.2 per cent. There we have itwages up 9 per cent to 9.5 per cent and taxes up 18 per cent. Quite clearly that indicates a very large increase in the overall tax burden. But this increase in the tax burden is not evenly applied. Low income earners will be made to pay a much higher percentage rise than high income earners. In my speech on the Budget I incorporated in  Hansard  tables which illustrate this quite clearly. Let me cite some of those figures. A single taxpayer on $8,000 last year will, with a 9 per cent rise in income this year, have a 16 per cent increase in tax. A single person on $6,000 last year will, with a 9 per cent rise this year, have a 24 per cent increase in tax. A single person on $5,000 last year will have a 38.9 per cent increase in tax. But at the other end of the scale, a single person on $ 100,000 last year will have a increase of 9.6 percent. 
As you go up the scale, the percentage increases in tax, as a result of the various measures in this Budget and in the legislation now before the House, go down. Quite clearly that is utterly inequitable. The same situation is true in respect of taxpayers with dependants. Those taxpayers on $8,000 will have an increase of 28 percent but for those on $100,000 the increase will be 9.6 per cent. Quite clearly these measures impose not only a very substantial overall increase in the tax burden but also do it in a thoroughly inequitable way by loading the greatest percentage increases on those who can least afford to pay additional amounts of tax. But that is a matter of small relevance to this Government. 
The increase in the tax burden on taxpayers in this country under the Fraser Government has been remarkable. The large income tax increase in this financial year, encompassed in the Bills now before the House, makes a mockery of the Government's claim to be a low tax party. In fact, this Government's period in office has been marked by increases in the tax burden which take the overall tax burden to the highest level in the history of our country. Let me prove that with various figures relating to increasing the income tax burden on Australian taxpayers. First, let me look at individual tax receipts as a share of gross domestic product. In the three years of the Labor Government receipts averaged 12 per cent; that is, the total amount of income tax receipts under the period of the Labor Government as a proportion of the gross domestic product was 12 per cent. In the first three years of the Fraser Government it was 13.1 per cent. It was notably up on the figure for the period when the Labor Government was in office. In this financial year, using the Government's estimates for prices and real growth in gross domestic product, and the revenue figures in the Budget, income tax receipts from individuals this year as a share of gross domestic product represent 13.3 per cent. So it is moving up all the time. This Government clearly is moving into a higher and higher tax impost on the Australian taxpayers. 
Pay-as-you-earn tax receipts as a proportion of wages and salaries paid for the three years of the Labor Government were at 9.3 per cent. For the first three years of the Fraser Government it was 10.3 per cent. On the same basis of calculation as I mentioned previously, for the year 1979-80 the figure becomes 10.5 per cent. So it is moving up all the time. In looking at total Federal tax receipts, not just income tax but all taxes that the Federal Government raises from people, businesses, et cetera, in the three years of the Labor Government receipts represented 22.5 per cent of the gross domestic product. In the first three years of the Fraser Government they represented 23.3 per cent. For 1979-80, again on the same basis of calculation that I used previously, it will be 23.9 per cent. Again it is moving up all the time. I am talking about not just income tax, but all tax receipts. The reasons for that are not only the rapid income tax increase but also due to the enormous amount of revenue being accrued by the Government from the crude oil levy there are very rapid increases in taxes in the non-income tax area as well. 
In looking at the share of average weekly earnings paid in taxes, to get away from the overall concept and look at the individual level, in 1975-76 22.7 per cent of the average weekly earnings of a single person was paid in income tax. In 1979-80 that figure rose slightly to 22.9 per cent. But a married taxpayer paid 14.2 per cent of his income in tax in 1975-76. In 1979-80 he will pay 1 8.3 per cent, which is a very substantial increase indeed. Of course it can be argued that those- figures make no allowance for the changed arrangements in respect of family allowances or health insurance. So one can do the sum again and include in the concept of net tax the amounts paid by the Government by way of child endowment or the family allowances and the additional amounts that taxpayers have to pay now to be covered for health care. I am referring only to medical costs, assuming that the people take advantage of the free hospital services provided by the Government under the new health arrangements. A single taxpayer paid 22.7 per cent of his income in 1975-76 in this concept of net tax. In 1979-80 he will pay 24.4 per cent. In 1975-76, 13.3 per cent of the income of a married taxpayer with a dependent spouse and two children went in net tax. In 1979-80, 17.7 per cent went in net tax. That is a very substantial increase indeed. 
It is interesting that it is in this area of married taxpayers, the families, the most heavy tax impost is occurring. This sits oddly with the Government's claim that it has done marvellous things for families by way of increasing family allowances. Of course, the reality is that the decision originally to move to family allowances and abolish the tax rebate was a good move which we supported. But it has been destroyed by the fact that the allowance has not been in any way adjusted since that time, so its real value has halved. Therefore, families find that the net tax impost on them is increasing all the time. 
There we have it. It is absolutely clear and beyond any doubt at all that the Fraser Government has notably increased the burden of income tax, and taxation as a whole, over what it was when Labor was in office. This is despite the fact that its period of office has been marked by massive tax avoidance by high income earners. Therefore, high income earners have had no increase at all in their tax burden. Indeed, it has been greatly reduced with the result that ordinary taxpayers, particularly wage and salary earners who have virtually no means of avoiding tax, have seen a considerable increase in their tax burden. All this makes a mockery of the Liberal claim to be a low tax party, as it has claimed so vociferously to be. The reality is that it is a high tax party; the highest tax party in Australia's history. It is especially so for wage and salary earners. The clear, undeniable facts show that attempts by Government spokesmen to portray the Government parties as generally low tax parties are nothing more than crude attempts to deceive the Australian people. 
As I have explained previously, this high tax feature of the Fraser Government is an inevitable result of its economic policies and, in particular, its deficit paranoia. Its continuing attempts to reduce the deficit, quite unsuccessfully so far, by increasing taxes simply depressed the Australian economy, thereby causing the deficit to blow out again through the resulting loss of tax revenue and more persons needing to claim unemployment benefit. This effect leads to more tax increases and a further perpetuation of the recessionary cycle. Without a change in basic economic policy we can expect only that the Fraser Government will not only continue as a high tax government but as the ever higher tax government. 
I turn now to tax avoidance. As I mentioned in opening, we support the tax avoidance measures contained in these Bills. Before making some general points on this matter I wish to draw attention to the main measures included in the legislation. The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) puts an end to four tax avoidance schemes- Curran-type schemes, trading stock schemes, pre-payment schemes and expenditure recoupment schemes. The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5) in part relates to those four types of avoidance schemes by providing that carry forward losses under these schemes will not be allowed. This is an extremely important measure which we strongly support. The Treasurer, in his second reading speech, made the point that $ 1,600m worth of artificial losses were claimed from the operation of these schemes for the year 1977-78, of which approximately $ 1,000m would be able to be carried forward to wipe out tax in future years if nothing were done to prevent it. Hence the provision in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5). However, we find it curious that the 
Government has provided in relation to carry forward losses in respect of only those four schemes. We cannot see why the Government could not have provided a more general provision. It seems that as other tax avoidance schemes arise- there appears to be no end to them- we will have to have further legislation in the future to provide this kind of protection; that is, to prevent carry forward of paper losses in respect of these new schemes which will arise. Why cannot we have some sort of general provision which is a prohibition on the carry forward of all paper losses? I would like some honourable members on the Government side to make some comment about this matter in this debate. If it is possible, surely we ought to be introducing such a provision. I do not know why it would not be possible. 
Regarding the importance of tax avoidance, quite apart from the Government action to restructure the tax scales inequitably, it is clear that the equity of the tax system is being further destroyed by tax avoidance. This is shown by the figures for taxes paid by pay-as-you-earn taxpayersbasically wage and salary earners- and by non pay-as-you-earn taxpayers in the last two financial years. Between 1976-77 and 1978-79 pay-as-you-earn taxpayers had their total taxes increased by 21.9 per cent. The total amount of tax that they paid went up by that amount, but for non-pay-as-you-earn taxpayers- that is, non wage and salary earners as a whole- their total taxes paid went down by 4.7 per cent. Obviously that enormous discrepancy is largely accounted for by the tremendous impact of tax avoidance. This shows how enormously effective tax avoidance is, despite the Government's action to prevent it. The Opposition agrees that the Government has taken substantial measures to reduce tax avoidance. But it had no choice. Unless it did so it would have had a far greater loss of revenue. It is absurd for the Government to claim continually that it deserves credit for having done more than any other government to prevent tax avoidance. 
The fact is that there has never been so much tax avoidance activity for governments to put an end to. That was shown quite clearly by a statement which I have referred to previously by  Mr Bruce  Pascoe,  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia. He said in December 1978 that in the previous two years- that is, 1977 and 1978- tax avoidance became big business in Australia. He said: 'It became a disease which, being allowed to go unchecked, reached epidemic proportions'. It is in this environment that the Government has had to take action. It allowed avoidance to go virtually unchecked- in the words of  Mr Pascoe-  until early 1978, by which time a tremendous amount of tax had been avoided and the whole avoidance process had been built up into an industry. It grew into one of the few growth industries under this Government. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said last night, about the only other areas which have increased that we can think of are massage parlours and Chinese restaurants. 
I would like to make many criticisms of the action taken by the Treasurer in respect of tax avoidance, acknowledging nevertheless that he has done quite a bit in this area. One of the areas in which we feel he has fallen down badly is simply by not acting against various schemes which he knows to be operating, which have been put to him time and time again and which he continues to allow to exist. Maybe it has something to do with the work load but it still seems odd that he allows this to happen. One area is internal superannuation schemes. In this House in the first half of this year I drew this matter to the attention of the Treasurer and gave him some documentation with respect to how such schemes worked. On 12 August this year I issued a Press release which referred again to the impact of internal superannuation schemes as blatant tax avoidance devices which this Government was continuing to allow to operate. 
These schemes work basically in this way: A company sets up a superannuation fund for its employees, including directors, who receive benefits only at death, on retirement, or after a qualifying period. Only the company contributes to the scheme. Its contributions are tax deductible, allowing it to avoid company tax and division 7 tax on undistributed profits. The fund invests something like 30 per cent of its assets in government securities so that all the fund's income becomes exempt from tax. The other 70 per cent of the fund's assets are lent back to the company at a reasonable rate of interest, the payment of which is a tax deduction for the company. The employment of all employees is terminated before they reach retirement age or serve out the qualifying period. Eventually, the directors are the only employees left in the fund and they receive all the assets accumulated in the fund tax free. Of course, this has particularly nasty effects in respect of the company's work force. The employees are led to believe that they are part of a superannuation scheme. But the reality is that it is only a device to avoid tax. Many of them finish up with no superannuation because the intention of the scheme was not to give them any superannuation but to avoid taxation. 
Recently I have had made available to me detailed evidence of how such a scheme worked. This scheme was put forward by a firm known as Industrial Taxation Services which has its headquarters in Beaumaris in Melbourne. I can make available to the Treasurer, at any time he wants, details of how this particular firm is proposing such internal superannuation schemes to work. For the benefit of honourable members and the public I seek leave of the House to include in  Hansard  a table which sets out clearly how this scheme would operate in the case of one company for which Industrial Taxation Services did some work. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197911083_83_11.jpg"></graphic>

No upward salary movements. 
) No Staff turnover or increases. 
3 ) A continued rate of 5 per cent Gross Interest paid on borrowings. 
Continued present tax scales and legislation. 
Maintenance by Life Office of present cash value figures. 
I thank the House. Since I made that Press statement there have been many statements in support of the claim that I made at the time, not the least by such organisations as the Life Insurance Federation of Australia, the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia and Australian Superannuation Plans. All of these organisations have strongly supported the case that I have made that many of these internal superannuation schemes are blatant tax avoidance schemes and that there were clear measures that could be taken by the Government to put restrictions on the use of this form of tax avoidance scheme, but so far nothing has been done. It is deplorable that the Government has seen fit to sit on its heels and allow this ripoff of the system to occur, not only because of the loss of tax revenue, but also because of what it is doing to thousands of employees out in the work force who think that they have superannuation cover but who are just being deluded and defrauded by this process. It is scandalous that the Government allows this situation to continue. Finally, I would like to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4). I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words:  the Government 's taxation policies are inequitable, deceptive and ineffective in that they- 
in direct violation of the Government's election promises, are imposing an increasing income tax burden on the Australian taxpayer, 
have continually reduced the equity of the tax system by imposing an increasing proportion of the income tax burden on low and middle income earners, 
are failing to prevent the continuance of a record level of tax avoidance by high income earners and 
have been marked by prevarication, policy reversals and concessions to powerful interest groups '. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. It concerns calculations by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research which show that for the period 1975-76 to 1979-80 the incidence of taxation on low and average income earners has substantially increased, while for above-average and especially high income earners the tax burden has declined. Does the Treasurer believe it is fair and equitable that a taxpayer with a dependent spouse and two children, who was earning $140 a week in 1975-76 and whose income increases in line with the rise of average weekly earnings of 45 per cent to 1979-80, should have his tax increased by 80 per cent while the tax for a similar taxpayer earning $500 a week in 1975-76 should have increased over the same period by only 33 per cent? Is the Treasurer concerned that the enormous increase in the crude oil levy in recent years has increased the tax burden on taxpayers in reverse to their capacity to pay and that the total tax burden on households has been calculated by the Institute to be regressive rather than progressive over much of the income scale? Do these facts indicate that when the Government claimed to be a low tax party it was talking about only high income earners? 
-The announcement that has just been made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will not come as a great surprise to honourable members or, indeed, to the public because in large measure it had been leaked to the Press as much as three weeks ago. A week and a half ago the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  announced in Darwin .that substantial changes would be made, although he did not go into great detail. So, even before the Treasurer got to the point of making a statement in the House about this massive capitulation, the proposed changes had been leaked extensively outside the Parliament. The fact is that this is a massive capitulation by this Government. As the Treasurer said at the end of his statement, it represents the forfeiture of $55m of revenue over what it originally intended to obtain from the measures announced by the Treasurer on 26 July this year. That is a tremendous reduction in revenue. 
Of course, it also represents a massive defeat for the Treasurer because when he made the original statement on 26 July he set out those proposals in the firm conviction that they would be carried through. He said that the measures were further evidence of the Government's determination to share the tax burden equitablyJust in case he has forgotten, I remind him of his statement on that day. In his Press statement, he said: 
These proposals are further evidence, if that were needed, of the Government's determination to ensure as far as possible that people in the community share the income tax burden equitably. 
One can only wonder about that statement now. The Treasurer was stung by criticisms of his announcement of 26 July, and the next day he brought out a Press statement in which he deplored the criticisms which had been made. I will quote briefly from that Press statement. He stated: 
It is already clear that some will attempt to discredit the Government's changed tax arrangements on family trusts by emotional references to their effect upon the earnings of children. 
The fact is that the arrangements I announced last night will make the tax system fairer. They will take away the tax advantage previously enjoyed by predominantly high income earners who could split their income and thus reduce their tax liability through the use of trusts or other arrangements involving their children. 
So said the Treasurer on 27 July. What has happened to those views? Quite clearly, the Treasurer has been rolled by massive lobbying of the Government by powerful and privileged interest groups, and not for the first time. We saw that happen recently in the case of the taxation provisions for cars costing more than $ 18,000. It is very important that the Treasurer of this country is being rolled in Cabinet in respect of quite important revenue-raising measures. 
I make the point that the opposition strongly supported the original statement made by the Treasurer. We said that it was a belated recognition of our oft repeated demand for action against income-splitting schemes. At the same time, we were critical of some of the shortcomings we saw in that statement. Although we were strongly supportive of it, we said that it did not go quite far enough. There were two areas of which basically we were critical. Firstly, it did not prevent income splitting between husband and wife, although we admit that that is not an easy thing to overcome. Nevertheless, it is one area of income splitting that was not tackled in the statement of 26 July. Secondly, and more importantly, we said that in respect of very high income earners- people whose incomes are well above $33,000 a year and who are in the top bracket of income tax rates- income splitting would still be a profitable exercise. At that time I gave the example of a person with income of $100,000 a year whose tax, without income splitting, would be $53,220. Even on the basis of the measures announced by the Treasurer on 26 July, with much heavier rates of tax applying to areas of income splitting, the person earning $100,000 and splitting his income with a wife and three children could reduce his tax by $12,975, even after the 26 July measures, had they been enforced. Effectively, a lot of the income that would have been taxed at the top rate of 61c in the dollar would have been taxed only at the rate of 47c in the dollar because of the new provisions applying from that time. Of course, they are now not going to apply to anything like the same extent. 
The criticisms we made at that time still apply but there are now many other criticisms that can be made because of the weakening of those provisions by the announcement just made by the Treasurer. As I have mentioned, the weakening of those provisions is substantial. The Treasurer has admitted that $55m in revenue will be lost. The major area of the tax loss is some $30m due to the raising of the exemption level for nonemployment income from $416 per annum to $1,040. This is an extraordinary concession. When introducing the original proposals, the Treasurer pointed out the reasonableness of a $416 exemption limit by noting that it represented an investment of $5,020 at 8 per cent per annum. Indeed, $5,020 is not a bad amount for a child to have invested, and we are talking about children's investments. As the Treasurer said, $416 was reasonable because we were looking at an investment by a child of some $5,000. By raising the exemption from $4 1 6 to $ 1 ,040, to do the Treasurer's sum on the new exemption levels, the investment level has been raised to $13,000, which at 8 per cent per annum represents $1,040. 
How many children in this country have investments in their names of $13,000? There are probably quite a few thousand, but it is a tremendously small proportion of the total number of children in this country. Yet the Treasurer decribed this as a modest investment. I honestly do not believe that the Treasurer thinks that that is a modest investment, and it is quite clear from his original statement that he did not think it was a modest investment. He thought something like $5,000 would have been more modest. I would have tackled even that as being a modest investment for a child. Certainly, to describe $13,000 in the name of a child as a modest investment shows a very strange set of values by the standards of most Australian people. Most Australian people never have $13,000 in cash to invest in income-producing investments in their lifetime. Here we are talking about children having $13,000. What sort of values do these people have? Certainly they are elitist values. They are not the values of 95 per cent of the Australian people, who do not have that kind of money available. What sort of people describe a child's investment of $13,000 as a modest investment? 
The other important area in which revenue will be lost by the concessions now being made is in respect of full time students aged from 1 8 to 25 years, who will be exempted from the scope of the original proposals. There will be continued scope for tax avoidance by income splitting with a dependent full time student child. If student children are exempted in this way, quite obviously parents can utilise a full time student child for income- splitting purposes. So that tax loophole remains open. That is what has been done. The Government has decided to leave it open rather than close it off, with the obvious anomaly to which I will refer in a moment. The Treasurer claimed that it was necessary to overcome what would be a restriction on the student's ability to generate sufficient income to cover the cost of his education. I make the point, and we acknowledge that there is difficulty in this - 
Yes, I admit that there is an anomaly. The difficulty arises only because of action the Government took in respect of abolishing gift tax. It would not have arisen had gift tax not been abolished. Income splitting would have been focussed on trusts and the Government would have been able to tie this proposal to include full time students' income to income they derived from trusts. But the Government cannot do that because, having abolished gift tax, it has opened up the whole scope of income splitting, as the Treasurer has admitted. I think it is extraordinarily interesting for the House to know that the Treasurer, who has made a big thing about the way in which he has been closing off tax avoidance loopholes, recently admitted in answer to a question on notice in this Parliament that by abolishing gift tax he has made tax avoidance easier. I quote from  Hansard  of 23 October 1 979 part of an answer given by the Treasurer to a question asked by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi). 
-It is page 2382, Question No. 4635. . 
-That is all right. I am happy for the Treasurer to know about it. I thought he would have been on top of it. In regard to the abolition of gift duty leaving the way open for tax evasion and avoidance, the Treasurer stated: 
Abolition of gift duty is not seen as relevant to tax evasion practices which are, of course, illegal. To the extent that abolition resulted in the lifting of a constraint on the transfer of capital assets, it has, to a degree, made tax avoidance that much less complicated and costly. 
That is an extraordinary statement. The Treasurer is saying that, by abolishing gift tax, what he has done is to make tax avoidance that much less complicated and costly by enabling the transfer of capital assets within a family or to other persons. He continued: 
As against that, the Government has moved firmly against tax avoidance, including avoidance through certain kinds of trusts . . . 
What he means by that is the kind of action which was proposed on 26 July, but that is now being watered down by the very proposals he has announced. The classic case is in respect of full time students. Parents will be able to split income with full time students, not by going through a trust system, as they would have before the abolition of gift duty, but simply by transferring capital assets, income-earning assets, to their children and therefore splitting their income and avoiding a lot of tax. That is what the Treasurer is admitting. He admits that he has made tax avoidance less complicated and less costly. By so doing, he has opened up more avenues of tax avoidance, as we said at the time the Government proposed to abolish gift tax. In respect of students and in broader measures in respect of tax avoidance, the Treasurer had made a rod for his own back by abolishing gift duty in that way. It has meant that instead of being able to focus attention on trusts, he has had to focus attention on a wide area. This has brought in its train a whole set of anomalies which the Treasurer, by trying to overcome, has left open a wide scope for tax avoidance. That is the situation, and while the Treasurer might nod his head, he should be fully aware of that situation; indeed, I am sure he is. 
The rest of the concessions largely represent capitulation to all the vested interests who saw their particular tax lurk being reduced or even eliminated. Even where they have entered into trusts in the past to avoid tax, but now would have to pay more tax if they had never gone into the trust as a result of the measures that will be introduced, the Commissioner of Taxation is to be given discretion to reduce or eliminate that additional tax. That is a simply amazing provision. It means that people who entered trusts to avoid tax, and who did so effectively for years, are to be saved the expense of dismantling those trusts now that they no longer reduce tax. What an extraordinary situation! These people went into trusts to avoid tax, yet the Treasurer says: Oh, well, you have been avoiding tax for years by utilising- trusts. No.w, because these new measures we are to bring in will make it more expensive for you and make your tax higher than it would be if you had never gone into that trust, we will save you the bother of getting out of that trust by just allowing the Commissioner of Taxation to reduce the tax that you would otherwise have to pay under the new tax law'. I find that to be extraordinarily favourable treatment of people who have been involved in tax avoidance through income splitting. Given this tremendous array of concessions, it is amazing that the Government had to stoop, to picking up that one. In our view, the only real answer to income splitting is to implement the Asprey Taxation Review Committee suggestion and that is, to tax all unearned income of children at the rate determined by notionally adding such income of children to parents' income. That is what is done in Britain and it should be done here to put an end to tax avoidance by income splitting. It would be far more simple than the kinds of complicated measures that are being brought in now with all these absurd exemptions to look after particular interest groups at various points. It would be far better to do what the Asprey Committee recommended in full instead of trying to do only half the job in the way the Government is now proposing. 
Finally, I think it is important to compare what this Government has done in respect of its treatment of unemployment benefit recipients. Here we have a case where every dollar earned over $6 is effectively taxed at 100 per cent. If an unemployment benefit recipient earns any more income over $6 he loses the whole of that dollar because the unemployment benefit is reduced. But despite repeated representations to the Government, nothing is done to look after these needy people. But in respect of other favourable friends, these further tax concessions are announced. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) What was the total expenditure on research and development of military technology in Australia during 1977-78. 
2 ) What were the main components of this expenditure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What has been the reduction in the real value of family allowances since they were introduced. 
By what percentage has this deterioration reduced the real income of a household head with a spouse and 3 children, receiving the minimum wage, since the allowances were introduced. 
-The Opposition brings this matter before the House because it is acutely concerned that current government policies are likely to intensify greatly stagflationary influences in the Australian economy. 
The current stance of budgetary and monetary policies is stagflationary- for the benefit of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  who is at the table that means policies which are both inflationary and contractionary and which lead to economic stagflation- not only in the purely domestic economy context but also in the context that increasing world stagflation will greatly exacerbate the inevitable effects of those policies on the Australian economy. Firstly, let me look at the budgetary strategy. At the time of the Budget we said that the strategy was both contractionary and inflationary, that is stagflationary. With regard to the contractionary elements we pointed to the fact that the domestic deficit had been reduced by 60 per cent, not by economic growth which would have been a good way of reducing it but by increased taxes. Taxes increased by 1 5.4 per cent as against an increase in outlays of 9. 1 per cent. 
The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research has estimated that if by some miraculous procedure we had full employment, instead of having a deficit we would have a surplus of $3 billion, with current tax rates and expenditure programs. Clearly, if we were able to get back to somewhere near full employment the deficit would be totally wiped out by that process. The fact that we would have a full employment surplus of $3 billion is a measure of the extraordinarily contractionary nature of the present Budget strategy. We have also mentioned in the past the statement by Professor Nevile of the University of New South Wales, one of Australia's leading fiscal analysts, that the Budget was the most contractionary Budget for more than a quarter of a century. With regard to the inflationary aspects of the Budget strategy we have pointed to the severe increase in petrol prices because of the crude oil pricing policy. We have shown that without any further rises after July, there will be an increase of 1.2 per cent in the consumer price index because of the July increases in petrol prices stemming from the Government's policy decision to increase the price of Australian produced crude oil in line with import parity. Of course, further increases in import parity will mean further inflationary influences in Australia. I will refer to this later. 
We have pointed to increased health costs which will add 1.3 per cent to the consumer price index as a result of the Budget decision to withdraw the Commonwealth subsidy for medical services costing less than $20. Petrol prices and health costs alone will mean a 2.5 per cent increase in the consumer price index. With the 1.3 per cent rise in food prices in October which was announced today- it is quite clear that food prices are continuing to rise rapidly- we are certainly looking at an annual inflation rate in double figures by the December quarter this year. In addition, as I have mentioned previously, there have been large increases in producer inputs for the manufacturers of this country due to increased commodity prices and the Government's budgetary decision to apply a 2 per cent tariff on all previously duty free imports, thus adding to costs and inflation. Without doubt, the Budget strategy is inflationary and contractionary and is imposing severe stagflation on the country. 
Monetary policy also is contractionary. The target rate of growth for the money supply is 10 per cent, despite the fact that the Government estimates an increase in inflation of 10 per cent plus and a growth of  Vh  per cent. Therefore, with the money supply rate of growth of 10 per cent, the stance of the monetary policy is quite clearly restrictionary and not enabling much economic growth to occur. So on both the budgetary and monetary aspects, we can see a stagflationary government strategy. Recent developments have severely reinforced the effects of the Government's policies established at the time of the Budget. They give cause for fear that stagflation will become much more severe in the near future if current budgetary and monetary policies continue to prevail. Despite the fall in pay-as-you-earn tax payments from December, we cannot expect any substantial boost to economic activity to occur. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research and Morgan Research have produced their latest index of consumer sentiment. It shows that in the current September quarter there is some improvement in consumer sentiment, but it also points out that consumers are not likely to spend any more because of their fear of inflation; that they will just save the tax cuts which will come into effect from 1 December. So although there will be a reduction in pay-as-you-earn tax payments from 1 December, the Institute and Morgan Research specifically point out that although there is improved confidence among consumers, it has only increased their ability to spend, not the actual likelihood of their spending the money. That is an extremely important point. 
The major stagflationary factor now is oil pricing policy. Developments since the Budget make it certain that the prices set by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries for crude oil will increase substantially when the OPEC countries meet in Caracas, Venezuela on 17 December to consider oil prices. Many OPEC countries have already increased their prices in the last few months so that although the average 1979 OPEC oil price is $US19 a barrel, the actual price today is about $US23.50 a barrel. Saudi Arabia 's price is only $ US 1 8 a barrel. That is an important price because it is the price on which the price of Australian produced crude oil is based. Australia takes the Saudi Arabian light oil price and adds a quality differential to get our import parity price. The Saudi Arabian price at $US 1 8.50 is well below the existing world parity, without any further decision to increase that price at the meeting in Caracas in December. So there is no way that the Saudi Arabian price will not increase substantially in December, at the very least to the current OPEC price of $US 23.50. More than likely it will be by much more than that because OPEC prices are likely to rise further. 
We must remember that oil prices will not rise just in December of this year but they will rise throughout 1 980. On the most reasonable expectation of what is likely to happen we must expect further rises throughout 1980. We are currently on a quarterly review of world oil prices by the OPEC countries. Every quarter the OPEC countries are going to review prices. On the Australian Government's crude oil policy it means that we are likely to be increasing oil prices considerably not only from January 1980 but also throughout 1 980 on a six-monthly basis because that is the way in which the Government has decided to adjust to import parity. There will be further substantial increases coming which will be stagflationary in their effect- inflationary and tending to bring about more recession. To reinforce this point I refer to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of Monday, 19 November, under the heading 'Money Market Stability Concern Rises Again'. The article quotes a  Mr Rimmer  Devries, the Dutch-born senior vicepresident and chief international economist for the Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. It states: 

 Mr Devries is frequently sought for his views by United States government officials and central bankers around the world. Morgan's monthly World Financial Markets, produced under his guidance, is considered one of the most authoritative publications on international finance in the United States. 
The article goes on to look at  Mr Devries'  views of what is likely to happen to oil prices in 1980. He says that on a highly optimistic assumption, we can expect an average price of something like $US25 a barrel in 1980. That is his highly optimistic assumption.  His  estimate of the price most likely is $US35 a barrel.  His  not impossible average price for 1980 is $US35 a barrel, which would mean almost a doubling of current Saudi Arabian prices, and therefore virtually a doubling of Australian crude oil prices, with enormous inflationary and contractionary effects on the Australian economy under this Government's policies. 
We know the price of oil will rise substantially and that economic activity will fall because of higher prices and because there will be a massive OPEC balance of payments surplus in 1980. As  Mr Devries  stated in the article, last year there was no OPEC balance of payments surplus. There was a big surplus in 1973-74 as a result of the enormous oil price rise at that time. That was gradually whittled away so that last year there was no surplus. But in this year OPEC expects a surplus of $50 billion which will mean virtually a withdrawal of real income from consuming countries to the oil producing countries of the enormous level of some $50 billion. Next year, on the assumption of a price of $US25 a barrel, the surplus will be $60 billion; on the basis of his most likely estimate of $US30 a barrel, it will be $90 billion; and on the not impossible price of $US35 a barrel, it will be $ 120 billion. 
There is no way that Australia can expect to be unaffected by the international inflation and recession that will follow such developments. The recessionary effect will show in demand for our exports and increased inflation will tend to feed in by way of higher import prices. But I must emphasise the point that there is no need for Australia to exacerbate these effects needlessly by importing that international recession and inflation by continuing to price Australian produced crude oil at import parity. We cannot expect to escape the effects through our demand for our exports and through our import prices. But we do not have to import inflation needlessly by way of grossly increasing the price of Australian produced crude oil. If we continue to do that- it is very much government policy- then we must expect to have severe inflation and recession throughout next year and beyond. 
The rise in the Saudi price from $US18 to $US23.50, which is only the current OPEC price- would increase inflation in Australiaassuming a two-thirds indirect effect as well as the full direct effect- by 0.9 per cent. That is almost a 1 per cent increase on that basis. If the price rose to $US25 a barrel, the highly optimistic low figure that  Mr Devries  mentioned, the inflationary effect in Australia would be 1.2 per cent. If the price rose to $US30 a barrel, 2 per cent inflation would flow from that rise under this Government's policies. If the price rose to the not impossible figure of $US35 a barrel, the inflationary effect in Australia in 1980 would be some 2.8 per cent for that factor alone. Quite clearly, this Government's crude oil pricing policies are going to feed in massive inflation in 1980 if they are continued. That is an extraordinarily important point for the people of Australia to become aware of. That would be totally and utterly unnecessary. Tax levels will be increased severely also. A large increase in the crude oil levy has occurred over the last two years. It has increased from $476m in 1977-78 to an estimated $2,056m in the current year, assuming that there are no further increases in crude oil prices. But those crude oil prices are certain to occur with the present policy. If the price per barrel goes to $US23.50 for OPEC oil next year, that would increase our levy by $660m- another $660m ripped off Australian taxpayers. At SUS25 a barrel the additional levy would be $870m; at $US30 a barrel it would be $ 1,585m; and at $US35 a barrel, it would be $2,300m as a result of the Government's decision to impose import parity by way of an increased crude oil levy. That of course would have massive recessionary effects on the economy. 
The effects do not stop there. The Treasury is arguing for world prices to apply not just to crude oil but also to natural gas and to coal used in the manufacture of electricity, thereby feeding in further inflationary prices in this country if that becomes Government policy. That Treasury argument is contained in a submission made quite recently to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. So this Government's policies and the policies of its advisers are quite clearly to feed massive inflation and recession into this economy in a quite unnecessary way. We cannot expect to avoid the inflation or recession for 1980 on a world basis, but we do not have to import it unnecessarily in the way that we will be doing by the policies of this Government. 
Canada and the United States do not have anything like import parity for crude oil. They adopt other means of trying to restrict the use of liquid petroleum. We should do that too by looking at such things as mandatory reductions in fuel consumption capacity for vehicles, discriminatory sales taxes on fuel efficient vehicles, overall energy increase limits and boosting public transport. But this Government is not doing that. All it can think about is increasing the price of Australian produced crude oil in line with import parity, imposing massive tax increases on the Australian people and calling that an energy policy. It is no energy policy. It is a policy for needlessly importing inflation and recession into Australia in 1980 and the years beyond. I had intended to talk about monetary strategy too which has also pointed towards increasing stagflation in Australia in 1980, but time has not allowed me to do that. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated effect on the CPI of a 1 per cent increase in the price index of (a) materials used in home building and (b) materials used in building other than home building. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated effect on the CPI of a 1 per cent increase in the price index of materials used in the manufacturing industry. 
2 ) What is the estimated lag for the full effect to occur. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated effect on the CPI of a 1 per cent increase in the price index of articles produced by manufacturing industry. 
2 ) What is the estimated lag for the full effect to occur. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated effect on the CPI of a 1 per cent increase in the Reserve Bank 's index of import prices. 
What is the estimated lag for the full effect to occur. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Does his Depanment use any measures for evaluating the stance of fiscal policy and /or the overall economic impact of the budget; if so, what are they and how are they calculated. 
What do these measures indicate concerning the economic impact of budgets from 1969-70 to and including the estimated impact of the 1979-80 Budget. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) What steps have been taken to implement Telecom's approval of the recommendations in Telecom 2000 relating to open planning since publication of the Outcomes from that report. 
Will a users council be established. 
What forms of industrial democracy have been introduced. 
What organisational changes have been made to facilitate greater decentralisation. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) What was the average increase in price for an average 3 bedroom house in Sydney during 1978-79. 
Why have house prices in Sydney risen sharply during the year. 
Does the price increase suggest an imbalance between supply and demand for housing. 
Is there any evidence of a housing shortage in Sydney as at 25 September 1979. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
What are the 'wider measures of the volume of money' mentioned on page 30 of Statement 2 of the Budget papers. 
What have been the aggregate levels of money supply shown by these wider measures each month since June 1 975 to date. 
What have been the annual rates of growth of these wider measures each year since 1975-76. 
